1 2007-01-01 Eliot Spitzer, the new governor of New York, ended 12 years of Republican rule with a blunt critique of the past and a call to “end the politics of cynicism and division in our state.”...
2 2007-01-01 Other Thai officials also expressed doubt that the bombs were the work of Islamic militants in Thailand’s three largely Muslim southern provinces, where bombs and shootings have taken 1,900 lives in the past two years.

There was no claim of responsibility but the attacks added to fears of violence in the months to come as Thailand grapples with a political crisis after the coup in September.

Mr. Thaksin’s supporters denied involvement in the bombings. But the ruling junta has warned of what it calls “undercurrents” of pro-Thaksin opposition that threaten the country’s stability.

The junta has maintained a state of martial law long after it said it would be ended, and last week it won funding from its appointed civilian government for a 14,000-member special action force to maintain civic order.

There was no public comment from Mr. Thaksin, who was away from Thailand at the time of the coup and has been traveling around the region in recent months. He was most recently reported to be in China.

The first six small bombs exploded within an hour of each other Sunday evening, mostly in places where they did not seem designed to cause widespread injury, including a bus stop, a parking area near a shopping mall, a small open market and two police posts.

Police officers were sent to guard the sites of the bombings and to secure other possible targets. Hotels tightened security, shopping malls closed early and the police cleared Khao San Road, where backpackers from around the world traditionally gather on New Year’s Eve.

Mayor Apirak Kosayothin closed a New Year’s celebration in a public plaza more than three hours early and said other public countdowns would also be canceled.

“Due to several bomb explosions in Bangkok and for the sake of peace and security, I would ask all of you to return to your homes now,” he told a crowd of 5,000 people. The police then began clearing the square.

Crowds remained in the streets for some time, however, waving from behind television reporters at the scenes of some of the bombings.

At the stroke of midnight cheers went up around the city and the sky was filled with multicolored bursts of fireworks and festive explosions.

In the moments that followed, it was discovered that three of those explosions were additional bombs that wounded eight more people, six of them foreigners, according to hospital officials.

Two of those bombs were planted at the plaza where Bangkok’s mayor had told the crowd to disperse hours earlier.

Unease over the pace and direction of the interim government has grown as it has failed to bring the expected charges of corruption against Mr. Thaksin, has continued its restrictions on free expression and political activity, and mismanaged a fiscal crisis in late December.

The government has said it will draw up a new constitution and hold elections by late next year. But its work has gone slowly, and opposition to military rule has grown from civil libertarians as well as from the Thaksin camp.

Abhisit Vejjajiva, the leader of the minority Democrat Party, said Saturday that he expected Mr. Thaksin’s backers to step up political attacks on the military-backed government in the coming year.

He referred to recent accusations of corruption against General Surayud, and said, “Such fighting will be more fierce next year.”

Shootings and bombings in southern Thailand have become an almost daily occurrence. But so far, the violence appears not to have spread to Bangkok and other parts of the country.

The southern violence appears to have a number of causes. The ethnic Malay Muslims have complained over the years of neglect and discrimination by the distant capital in this largely Buddhist nation.

Whatever the cause of the bombings, the daily newspaper The Nation said in a front-page editorial that “this Kingdom is facing its most menacing threat.”

“They want us to panic,” it said, referring to the New Year’s bombers. “They want us to point fingers, pass the blame and fight among ourselves. They want to aggravate our political turmoil.”
3 2007-01-01 A warm welcome to our great friend the esteemed Judge Kay and all the members of the Court of Appeals. A warm welcome to all those joining me in being sworn in today. Attorney General Andrew Cuomo and my partner, Lieutenant Governor David Paterson.

My deepest thanks are to my parents; my wife, Silda, and our three wonderful daughters.

Today, we come together to mark a pivotal moment in our state’s history, a day that in the rhythm of democracy marks a transition and a new beginning.

It is with profound humility about the task that lies before us and filled with great hope for what I know we will achieve, that I stand before you to announce that Day One of our time for change has arrived.

As we step outside on this first January morning of 2007, the light of a new day shines down on the Empire State once again.

The opportunity at the heart of this day is unique to our times, but not new to our history. As the writer Russell Shorto has aptly noted, New York created the model for the kind of society that would be duplicated throughout the country and around the globe: Our state was born as an island at the center of the world.

What began as a babble of dialects and peoples struggling to find a way to live together, searching for balance between chaos and order, liberty and oppression, became a symphony of democracy.

Under the shadow of liberty’s torch, generations of weary travelers have sailed into New York harbor believing that of all the places on Earth, this was the land where people could come and find the chance to make their world anew.

That no matter how great the hardship, no matter how daunting the challenge, the promise of our democracy makes it possible to overcome the greatest odds so that we — individually and as a society — may arrive at a greater good.

And so it was for those first immigrants who came with little and worked long days to give their children a better life.

For the bold governor, Dewitt Clinton, who ignored the warnings of the skeptics and cynics and built an Erie Canal that so many had said was wasteful, impractical, and impossible.

For the reformers of Teddy Roosevelt’s day who dared to take on the political machine and inbred corruption in order to give government back to the people.

For the suffragists and union members and civil rights heroes who organized and marched on our streets to win their chance at the American dream.

For the inventors, artists and entrepreneurs who have turned our state into a beacon of hope, ideas and opportunity.

And so it must be for us. Like all who have come before, we have arrived at this moment on this day because we have demanded a different and more vibrant future for our children.

Because we know that New York is the state where the depth of our talent and the breadth of our skills and the reach of our culture have forever changed America and the entire world — and because we know we can do it once more.

This election was not about electing one person as governor. Rather it was about what we the people collectively elected for the future of our state.

We chose pragmatism and ethics over partisan politics and dysfunction, and we demanded an end to gridlock.

So I pledge to toil each and every day so as not to disappoint the hard working people of this state who have placed their trust in this future — a future which rekindles hope and restores growth.

Today we stand in the midst of a global revolution that has transformed the way we live and the way we work. Creativity and prosperity travel wherever the brightest minds and most innovative economies can be found.

Over the last decade, we have seen what can happen when our government stands still in the face of great challenge and inevitable change.

We’ve seen it in the burdensome property taxes and the health care we can’t afford; in the jobs that have disappeared from our upstate cities and the schools that keep failing our children; in a government that works for those who hold office — not those who put them there.

Like Rip Van Winkle, the legendary character created by the New York author Washington Irving, New York has slept through much of the past decade while the rest of the world has passed us by.

Today is the day when all of that changes — when we stop standing still and start moving forward once more.

And while I wish I could tell you that either a single election or a different party or even a new governor alone is enough to do this — I cannot. While I wish I could tell you that change will be easy — I don’t believe that you elected me to do what’s easy.

Easy is spending your tax dollars without consequence or sacrifice. Easy is saying yes to supporters and no to opponents. Easy is looking the other way while costs rise, debts mount and families lose ground. Easy is what we’ve had, but easy is not where we need to go.

Let us remember the lessons of two great governors, Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt instructed, “It is only through labor and painful effort, by grim energy and resolute courage that we move on to better things.”

And Franklin Roosevelt advised us to be, “bold,” and to recognize that people demand “action, and action now.”

I have no doubt that we can move on to better things in this state — that we will find ourselves on the winning side of history once more.

But to be number one again, we must be one New York again.

And so in order to return to policies of opportunity and prosperity, we must change the ethics of Albany and end the politics of cynicism and division in our state.

If ever there was a time that called out for introspection by those in government, it is now. Lincoln spoke of listening to “the better angels of our nature.” Indeed, those of us who work in the great building behind me must hear and heed the serious responsibility that public service demands and rise to this moment and show the public in words and in deeds that we understand that our responsibility is to the people of New York.

The reform we seek is substantial in size and historic in scope.

It will require a new brand of politics — a break from the days when progress was measured by the partisan points scored or the opponents defeated. No longer can we afford merely to tinker at the margins of the status quo or play the politics of pitting one group against another. We must replace delay and diversion with energy and purpose in the halls of our capital.

What we needed now more than ever is a politics that binds us together, a politics that looks to the future, a politics that asks not what is in it for me, but always what is in it for us.

We must embrace a progressive vision of government once more — a vision that upholds the values of individuality and community; of entrepreneurship and opportunity; of responsibility and fairness. No one any longer believes in government as a heavy hand that can cure all our ills, but rather we see it as a lean and responsive force that can make possible the pursuit of prosperity and opportunity for all — by softening life’s blows, leveling its playing field and making possible the pursuit of happiness that is our God-given right.

It is both tempting and understandable for each of us to focus on the problems and concerns within our own neighborhoods, our own cities, our own regions and our own businesses. But for any one of us to succeed, we must succeed as One New York.

A state that is not urban or rural, upstate or downstate, Republican or Democratic, but first and foremost New Yorkers — striving together, reaching together, working together toward our common dream.

And so, together, we must strive to build One New York through a politics that operates on the principle that we rise or fall as one people and one state.

We will succeed not because we point fingers or refuse to budge, but because we compromise enough to find principled consensus, and because we listen enough to find wise solutions.

Not everyone will agree with this vision and some will not support these solutions. Indeed, we will make mistakes. But progress we will have — measured by our core values.

Our purpose is not reform merely for the sake of reform, but to restore fairness and create opportunity and redefine the very fabric of our community.

Some may feel anxiety over changes that seek to make businesses more competitive, but all will benefit from an Innovation Economy that attracts young people and new businesses in every part of New York.

Some may express skepticism over a school system that demands more accountability from students, teachers and parents, but all will benefit from an education that rewards excellence and gives every child the best possible chance in life.

Some may feel threatened by health care reforms, but all will benefit from a system that finally puts patients first at a cost that all families can afford.

Some public officials may not want to face stricter ethics rules and more competitive elections, but all citizens will win when we finally get a government that puts the people’s interests, openness and integrity first.

With most of these reforms, there will be those who say we can’t, we shouldn’t and we won’t.

They will peddle the politics of cynicism that we must now make the politics of yesterday. Because if we band together and succeed in our efforts, our future will mean a New York that values the dignity of each person — and once more offers opportunity for all.

Every policy, every action every decision we make in this administration will further two overarching objectives: we must transform our government so that it is as ethical and wise as all of New York, and we must rebuild our economy so that it is ready to compete on the global stage in the next century. The simplicity of articulating these principles belies the complexity of the task. But victory will be ours, as it must be.

And so on this day of unbridled hope and possibility, I ask you to think not only of the challenges and aspirations that you hold in your own hearts, but of those that are held in the collective heart of New York.

This One New York includes Chris Kelder and his family, who have farmed their land in Ulster County for more than two centuries, passing their dreams on to each successive generation.

It includes today’s immigrants whose lips speak the languages of Spanish, Chinese, Korean, French and an infinite array of dialects from all over the world.

Today’s immigrants enrich our state with their vitality and their vision, in the same way as the immigrants of the last century. All these different tongues translate into the incomparable work ethic of New York.

And it includes the brave immigrants who came through Ellis Island over the last century in search of a better life, one of whose grandsons stands here in front of you today the embodiment of their dreams.

Each of us comes from a different place and from a different background. Each has faced their own tests and trials along life’s journey.

But throughout the history of New York, what has always united us as a people is the recognition that we are all on this journey together, and if we’re willing to catch each other during our stumbles and look out for one another during the tough times, we have it in our power to remove any obstacles in our path and walk toward that brighter day.

No matter how great the challenge — no matter how impossible the odds — our destiny will never be a path to follow, but always a trail to blaze.

And so on this new day of a new year, I ask not just for your support, but also for your cooperation, your patience and your participation in making our dream real once again.

As New York’s former Governor Theodore Roosevelt once remarked, there can be no great progress without first entering the arena.

My fellow New Yorkers: join me in that arena.

Lend your sweat, your toil and your passion to the effort of building One New York of which we can all be proud.

My fellow New Yorkers. Our moment is here.

Day One is now.

Together, let’s build that One New York. Let’s walk toward that better day.

Thank you, and God bless.
4 2007-01-01 Raja Bell of the Suns was ejected when he was given his second technical of the game after a fourth-quarter bumping incident with Richard Hamilton. Hamilton, who scored 31 points for Detroit, also received a technical on the play.

Bell and Shawn Marion each had 15 points for Phoenix.

Flip Murray, playing more minutes in place of Billups, had season highs of 18 points and 7 assists, but Rasheed Wallace scored only 10 points on 4-for-17 shooting and was 0 for 7 from 3-point range.

MAVERICKS 89, NUGGETS 85 Josh Howard had 28 points and 17 rebounds to lead visiting Dallas to its 10th consecutive victory.

Howard had 9 points in the fourth quarter and made a key basket in the last minute. Jason Terry scored 9 of his 21 points in the final period for the Mavericks, who were missing Dirk Nowitzki because of a sinus infection.

Allen Iverson had 28 points and 8 assists for Denver. Marcus Camby added 13 points and 13 rebounds in his first game back after missing four games because of a broken finger.

SPURS 95, HAWKS 81 Tony Parker scored 27 points and Tim Duncan added 17 despite playing with a stomach ailment that has pestered the San Antonio roster.

It was Parker’s third consecutive game with more than 20 points and the fourth out of his past five.

“I thought Timmy did a great job coming off the flu he had yesterday to come back and play like he did,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich said about Duncan. “I didn’t think he would play.”

Manu Ginóbili, who missed a game this week because of a stomach ailment, scored 18 for host San Antonio, which opened the fourth quarter with a 10-0 run for a 77-61 lead.

The Hawks (9-20) have lost seven games in a row and 11 of 12. Atlanta has lost nine straight in San Antonio dating to Feb. 15, 1997.

Duncan’s status was not certain until about 20 minutes before the game. At least five other Spurs have been affected by the illness, accounting for three missed games.

ROCKETS 111, GRIZZLIES 109 Tracy McGrady scored a season-high 38 points and had 9 rebounds to help host Houston hand Memphis’s interim coach, Tony Barone, his first loss.

Juwan Howard added a season-high 22 points and Luther Head had 18 in the Rockets’ third consecutive victory. They are 3-1 since center Yao Ming broke a bone under his right knee.

McGrady made 15 of 30 shots and was 5 for 8 from 3-point range. Dikembe Mutombo had 11 rebounds for Houston, which hit 14 3-pointers.

Mike Miller matched a season high with seven 3-pointers and scored 32 points for Memphis in its 12th loss in 14 games. The Grizzlies lost five in a row before Barone replaced Mike Fratello on Saturday.
5 2007-01-01 DENVER, Dec. 31 (AP) — Small planes canvassed snow-covered roads in Colorado on Sunday, searching for stranded travelers after a powerful winter storm piled drifts up to 10 feet high across much of the Plains.

National Guard troops rescued 44 people from the storm, which buried the foothills west of Denver with more than two feet of snow. About 650 people spent Saturday night in shelters, officials said.

More snow fell on Sunday from Kansas to Minnesota.

Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado, who declared a statewide emergency for this storm and for a blizzard a week earlier, flew over the state on Sunday.

“You can’t see where certain state highways are,” Mr. Owens said. “You can only tell because of the telephone poles.”

At least eight deaths were attributed to the storm. Six people have been killed since Thursday in traffic accidents in Colorado and Texas. A tornado killed a person on Friday in Texas, and a man was reported dead on Sunday in a rural Kansas home where a generator apparently had been in use.

The National Guard was also mobilized in Kansas, where the storm left 44,000 homes and businesses without power and closed parts of more than a dozen highways.
6 2007-01-01 Craig Hugh Smyth, an art historian who drew attention to the importance of conservation and the recovery of purloined art and cultural objects, died on Dec. 22 in Englewood, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cresskill, N.J.

The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Alexandra, said.

Mr. Smyth led the first academic program in conservation in the United States in 1960 as the director of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.

Long before he began his academic career, he worked in the recovery of stolen art. After the defeat of Germany in World War II, Mr. Smyth was made director of the Munich Central Collecting Point, set up by the Allies for works that they retrieved. There, he received art and cultural relics confiscated by the Nazis, cared for them and tried to return them to their owners or their countries of origin. He served as a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve during the war, and the art job was part of his military service. Upon returning from Germany in 1946, he lectured at the Frick Collection and, in 1949, was awarded a Fulbright research fellowship, which took him to Florence, Italy.

It was in Florence, a city full of art-loving tourists whose presence could be hard on the works they loved, that his interest in conservation was piqued, said Mariët Westermann, the director of the Institute of Fine Arts. He concentrated on the late-Renaissance drawings of Bronzino, best known as a Mannerist painter. While working on his own research, he took photographs of many other drawings of the 16th century.

“He put Mannerist art back on the map,” Ms. Westermann said.

Mr. Smyth received his Ph.D. in art history from Princeton in 1956, six years after he became a professor at the Institute of Fine Arts. He wrote many scholarly articles and books, including, “Mannerism and Maniera” and “Repatriation of Art From the Collecting Point in Munich After World War II.”

Mr. Smyth was an honorary trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and was the director of the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies at Villa I Tatti in Florence. He was also chairman of the advisory committee of the J. Paul Getty Research Institute for the History of Art and the Humanities.
7 2007-01-01 In Microsoft’s latest attempt to reach out to bloggers, the company recently gave away expensive laptops loaded with its new Windows Vista operating system. But the gifts generated controversy as well as good will, as many in that community accused Microsoft of bribery and their peers of unethical behavior.

Several bloggers reported last week that they had received Acer Ferrari laptops, which can sell for more than $2,200, from Microsoft. A spokeswoman for Microsoft confirmed on Friday that the company had sent out about 90 computers to bloggers who write about technology and other subjects (such as photography and, oddly, parenting) that could be affected by the new operating system.

But while those on Microsoft’s mailing list initially greeted the machines with enthusiasm, many in the blogging community soon objected — and not only because they were left off the list — arguing that bloggers are bound by the same rules as traditional journalists, who should not accept expensive gifts from companies they cover.

Long Zheng, an Australian blogger (istartedsomething.com) who received one of the computers, had over 160 comments on his post about the computers, ranging from envy to disgust. “It’s a bribe. Plain and simple,” wrote one commenter.

Others disagreed. “Being provided an evaluation computer from Acer is not a ‘bribe,’ ” Blake Handler, a Los Angeles blogger (bhandler.spaces.live.com/) who received a laptop and who plans to keep it, wrote in a comment to Mr. Zheng’s original post. “It simply allows me to accelerate my evaluations, documentation and demonstrations of Windows Vista.”

Microsoft has recently made several efforts to engage the technologically aware, and often anti-Microsoft, blogging community. After the criticisms of the laptop giveaway began, a Microsoft employee sent an e-mail message to some of the recipients, asking them to return or give away the machines when they were finished evaluating Vista. However, Microsoft’s spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement that the followup message had caused confusion, and that the bloggers were still welcome to keep the computers.
8 2007-01-01 Should Smilebox gain enough acceptance with consumers before the free photo services offer up competing features, analysts said, it may well build a successful business. Building a successful business of any significant size, though, may be asking too much.

“This looks to me like a niche business,” said Christopher Chute, an analyst with IDC, a technology consultancy. “Getting people to pay has always been a problem, so they’ve got to find a hook.”

Andrew Wright, the chief executive of Smilebox, believes he has found at least one hook into a bigger market, thanks to an alliance with Hallmark. In that partnership, the greeting card company in December started offering a modified version of Smilebox on Hallmark.com.

According to Steven Ruschill, who oversees online initiatives for Hallmark’s new business development group, the Smilebox partnership has yielded “pleasantly surprising” results, despite his company’s having done nothing to promote the service. “It’s a little too early to judge it fully, but so far so good,” he said.

Hallmark.com visitors who clicked on the Smilebox feature turned into paying customers more often than Mr. Ruschill anticipated, he said. If the number of paying customers reaches an undisclosed threshold over the next several months, he said, Hallmark will most likely retain the service on its site and continue to share the revenues with Smilebox.

“When the novelty starts to wear off, the question is whether users will just think of this as another thing they have to do,” he said.

Mr. Wright said that Smilebox.com’s traffic climbed steadily after the company introduced it in April, reaching about 500,000 visitors in December. He would not say how many of those visitors were paying customers, but he said, “the business model is working very well.”

In addition to revenues from subscriptions and one-time sales, Smilebox is also distributing Google ads alongside its free photo templates, netting the company about $7 for each 1,000 people who view a page of pictures.

Mr. Wright is, however, more focused on the fee-based service, having already built a successful subscription offering in the online games category which, like online photos, is dominated by free services. Mr. Wright formerly led RealNetworks’ RealArcade, and several former RealNetworks executives, among others, have backed his business with $6 million in venture financing to date.

Mr. Wright’s fee-based approach is unusual, but not unique. Smugmug, a photo-sharing service based in San Francisco, charges $40 to $150 annually for digital photo storage and sharing. Chris MacAskill, Smugmug’s president, said the company is profitable, with slightly more than $10 million in annual sales, and spends nothing on marketing. He said Smilebox “looks very interesting.”

“I’ve seen quite a few attempts at it in the past,” Mr. MacAskill said, referring to digital scrapbooking, “including a very impressive Sony site, Screenblast, that for some reason never got traction and went away. Surely someone will make it work, and these guys look like they’ve got a lot of talent.”

The darling of free online photo-sharing, Photobucket.com, will introduce both free and paid services that will compete with Smilebox early in 2007, said Alex Welch, the company’s chief executive. Mr. Welch said that service would let users create custom slideshows with audio.

“There’s definitely a huge hunger for online editing tools,” Mr. Welch said. “The question is whether you can charge for it and differentiate yourself enough to make a business out of it.”

Photobucket.com raced to the top of online photo-sharing sites in 2006, reaching 15.6 million visitors in November, according to ComScore Media Metrix, an online measurement company. A year earlier the company attracted 10 million fewer visitors, but word quickly spread among MySpace users, among others, that Photobucket simplified the process of posting photos on that Web site and others, and an Internet star was born.

Now Mr. Welch said that even as it develops new features to keep pace with Smilebox and others, it is working harder to generate advertising revenue from visitors. The business recently created its own advertising sales team to strike deals with big brand marketers and advertising agencies. Until now, the company has distributed ads on behalf of Google and other networks, an effort that Mr. Welch said “has worked well.”

If Photobucket, Smilebox and similar services generate significant profits from ads or user fees, IDC’s Mr. Chute, for one, will be surprised. “The lack of a clear revenue model has always been the bane of these sites,” Mr. Chute said. “The only way these guys have ever made money was to be acquired.”
9 2007-01-01 “It’s about the players believing in the coach, and the coaches believing in the players,” Pennington said.

The way the Jets finished their relatively easy schedule, they surely believe in Coach Eric Mangini, who finally used the word playoffs in a sentence after his Gatorade shower, and he believes in them. But the way the Giants had to depend on Barber to outscore the Redskins, a 5-11 disappointment, it’s difficult to know if they believe in Coach Tom Coughlin and his staff, and if Coughlin believes in his injury-depleted roster.

An 8-8 record is not necessarily a quick lose-and-out for a wild card. In the years since the 16-game schedule began in 1978, six other 8-8 teams reached the playoffs via the wild card and two of them won an opening-round game on the road before losing in the divisional round.

Two years ago, the Vikings and the Rams were 8-8 in gaining the National Football Conference playoffs. The Vikings upset the Packers, 31-17, before losing to the Eagles, 27-14; and the Rams stunned the Seahawks, 27-20, before losing to the Falcons, 47-17.

The four 8-8 wild-card teams that lost in the opening round included the 1991 Jets, who fell in Houston, 17-10, after sneaking into the playoffs with an overtime victory in Miami, as well as the 1999 Cowboys, the 1999 Lions and the 1990 Saints.

The 1985 Browns won their division with an 8-8 record and lost to the Dolphins in their first playoff game.

In a third coaching chess match between Mangini and his mentor, Bill Belichick, the Jets would seem to have a puncher’s chance against the Patriots, whom they defeated, 17-14, in Foxborough after an early season 24-17 loss at Giants Stadium. But it won’t be easy for Pennington to win a passing duel with Tom Brady, a three-time Super Bowl winner. The Giants don’t seem to have the manpower (and maybe the will power) to upset the Eagles, especially in Philadelphia.

The Giants split with the Eagles, winning by 30-24 in overtime in Philadelphia on Eli Manning’s three touchdown passes, but losing, 36-22, at Giants Stadium a little more than two weeks ago.

Against the Redskins on Saturday night, Barber had the best game any Giants running back ever had, especially when a victory meant so much not only to him as the last regular-season game of his career before he disappears into a television studio, but also to the salvation of a season that loomed as a disaster.

For all the wonderful games played by the Giants’ Hall of Fame running backs — Frank Gifford, Tuffy Leemans and Ken Strong — and by Joe Morris and Rodney Hampton, none of those stars carried the Giants the way Barber did at FedEx Field, across the Potomac River from Virginia, where he grew up as a Redskins fan.

But against the Eagles in what could be his last game, Barber will be running against one of the N.F.L.’s toughest defenses. There won’t be many holes for him to dart through, and the Eagles’ demon safety, Brian Dawkins, won’t be as easy to outrun as the Redskins.

The Jets not only survived, but thrived without their future Hall of Fame running back Curtis Martin, the fourth-leading career rusher in pro football with more 14,000 yards. Martin was never activated after having knee surgery late last season — another tribute to Mangini’s day-to-day mantra for his players: Try to win the next game and try to make progress.

“We haven’t had the time to doubt ourselves and to ask, what if?” Pennington said, alluding to Martin. “It’s been full go since Day 1. Our young guys who haven’t had opportunities before but had them now have stepped to the forefront. Each week, somebody you may not have heard from stepped up and made the play. That’s what football is all about.”

In Martin’s absence, the rookie Leon Washington, a fourth-round selection with the draft choice awarded to the Jets when the Chiefs hired Herman Edwards as their coach, rushed for 650 yards. Cedric Houston had 374 and Kevan Barlow 370.

That adds up to 1,394 yards, about what a healthy Martin might have had. But a yard is a yard is a yard, no matter who gets it. So the Jets, riding Pennington’s cool comeback from his second rotator-cuff operation, are soaring into the playoffs as the Giants stumble in. And for only the fifth time, they’re both there.
10 2007-01-01 For the Jets and the Giants, today is a rare happy New Year: It is only the fifth time the two New York pro football franchises have been together in the Super Bowl tournament.     That's together in a Sunday doubleheader, but not in momentum, wit...
11 2007-01-01 GIUDICE--Emily, 94 of Ridgewood, NJ died December 31, 2006. She is survived by her husband Dr. Vincent Giudice and her sons Chris, Cliff and Russ Jacobs. Services C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, Ridgewood, NJ....
12 2007-01-01 ANTIPIRACY FOILED ON HD DISCS -- An anonymous computer programmer may have skewed the competition between HD-DVD and Blu-ray, rival standards for high-definition DVD discs, by defeating a scheme that both sides use to protect digital content. [Pag...
13 2007-01-02 In a long profile of the NYSE Group's chief executive, John Thain, New York magazine says Mr. Thain's modus operandi has "always been to give the coming technocracy a human face." It can be a tricky strategy to pull off, however. The essential fun...
14 2007-01-02 David Denby of the New Yorker looks deep into his iPod and sees ... a murky future for Hollywood. "The movies currently offered by Apple and other downloading services are the first trickles of a flood," Mr. Denby writes. "Soon, new movies will co...
15 2007-01-02 Essar of India has secured financing pledges for a potential bid for the 67 percent that it does not own of Hutchison Essar, the cellphone operator it jointly owns with Hong Kong's Hutchison Telecommunication International, The Financial Times rep...
16 2007-01-02 How far will uptsarts go to try and topple popular web starts like YouTube and MySpace? Quite a bit further, it seems. Increasingly, new Web sites like Stickam.com, Dailymotion, and LiveLeak are building their businesses by going where others fear...
17 2007-01-02 They are known as "hedge fund hotels": Offices that investment banks lease out to upstart hedge-fund traders, usually in hopes that the traders-in-residence will become big clients. As The New York Times's Jenny Anderson reports, they often come w...
18 2007-01-02 The London Stock Exchange is planning to tighten regulations in a move that would make it easier to take disciplinary action against brokers that bring unsuccessful companies to the Alternative Investment Market. The change is part of a bid to tou...
19 2007-01-02 The Nasdaq Stock Market's chief executive, Robert Greifeld, will begin a second round of meetings with investors in the London Stock Exchange this week, in a sign that the exchange has no intention of raising its 12.43-pound-a-share ($24.48-a-shar...
20 2007-01-02 Will 2007 be the year that Sirius Satellite Radio and its larger rival XM Satellite Radio do a deal? Following persistent speculation that the two satellite radio companies may merge (egged on by determined cheerleading from pugnacious market pund...
21 2007-01-02 Is one of France's biggest corporate raiders looking to break up a government-engineered energy merger? According to The New York Times, François Pinault, the billionaire investor who owns the luxury fashion house Gucci, is exploring a bid for th...
22 2007-01-02 SEOUL, Jan. 2 — South Korea’s antitrust agency has formed a task force to investigate the business practices of the wireless technology firm Qualcomm, opening what could emerge as the latest in a string of legal battles facing the company, government officials said Tuesday.

The launching of the task force, which is modeled after the one investigating antitrust complaints against Microsoft, means that the case merits a full investigation, said Na Yang Ju, a spokesman for the antitrust watchdog, the Fair Trade Commission.

But commission officials acknowledged that the case against Qualcomm was more complicated than they had expected. A year ago, the commission ruled that Microsoft was guilty of breaching fair-trade rules, a decision the company is appealing.

“We have been investigating Qualcomm’s case since last April but we have found it to be a complicated case where facts are difficult to establish,” said Lee Seung Kyu, a commission investigator.

The acceleration of the investigation in South Korea brings more woes to Qualcomm, which faces similar complaints in Japan, Europe and the United States, where competitors are accusing it of abusing its market dominance in wireless technology to demand excessive royalties and block fair competition.
23 2007-01-02 While the state investigation is in a preliminary stage and may not lead to any specific charges, at its heart is a thorny issue that has dogged regulators for decades. Money managers, including mutual funds and hedge funds, often pay Wall Street with “soft dollars” — inflated commissions that include the cost of trading (typically 1 to 2 cents a share) plus an additional few cents a share that can be directed to pay for research and other services.

Soft dollars are controversial because clients pay for the higher commissions, while the services often benefit the manager the most. Higher commissions result in greater expenses for the fund and potentially lower returns for investors.

In the late 1990s, the Securities and Exchange Commission cracked down on the use of soft dollars by mutual funds, concerned that investors were being duped into paying for services enjoyed by the manager.

Massachusetts is now investigating whether hedge funds are improperly using soft dollars to pay for space in these hotels and failing to disclose to investors that they are covering a major expense.

“It’s the same soft dollar question,” Mr. Galvin said in an interview. “What kind of quid pro quo might be in the placement of an order? What’s the relationship between the entities?”

As hedge funds have exploded, so, too, have the fortunes of Wall Street, which earns billions of dollars a year in fees executing trades and lending money to hedge fund clients. Hedge funds typically trade more than other Wall Street clients and they trade exotic, high-margin products, like complex derivatives.

Because hedge funds have become such important customers, there are concerns that they may be receiving tips about pending mergers, for example, or other yet-to-be-disclosed news that could affect a stock price. Trading ahead of public disclosure would give a fund an advantage; while it generally would be illegal, it is often hard for regulators to detect or prove.

Trading and the soft dollars used to pay for it are only one part of the business Wall Street does with hedge funds. The main business of servicing hedge funds is called prime brokerage. It includes financing trades; finding and lending stock to allow hedge funds to short stocks (betting that their price will fall); structuring derivatives; and executing swaps. It can also include hedge fund hotels — securing real estate, receptionists and information technology and even managing, say, the risk of trading currencies in Asia.

The global prime brokerage business generates $8 billion to $10 billion a year, according to an estimate by the Vodia Group, a consulting firm for the financial services industry. The business is highly profitable, with a return on equity — a measure of how efficiently the bank reinvests its capital — of a healthy 15 to 20 percent. In 2006, Goldman Sachs made $2 billion directly servicing hedge funds, 22 percent more than the previous year.

Prime brokerage is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the fees that hedge funds generate for Wall Street firms: billions of additional dollars come from trading for these funds. Credit Suisse estimates that investment banks made $25 billion in revenue from hedge funds in 2004, $19 billion of which came from sales and trading and the rest from prime brokerage.

Hedge funds now control half the volume traded on the New York and London Stock Exchanges, according to Credit Suisse.

In markets like convertible arbitrage, hedge funds control 70 percent of the trading. (In convertible arbitrage, an investor buys a bond that can be converted into stock and then sells that stock short, betting that its price will fall because of the sale of convertible bonds.)

“Hedge funds generate about 30 to 35 percent of the equity commission volume of the major Wall Street firms,” said Brad Hintz, a securities analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, a respected Wall Street research firm that manages money for wealthy individuals and institutions. But that is only part of the equation.

“Because a hedge fund has broad investment guidelines — it is not constrained like a mutual fund to invest in certain stocks or certain sectors — it allows the hedge fund to really go after some of the more financially attractive products the Street offers,” Mr. Hintz said.

In the United States, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bear Stearns lead the pack in prime brokerage, collectively controlling about 75 percent of the market, according to Sanford C. Bernstein, a unit of AllianceBernstein.

But neither Goldman nor Morgan Stanley run significant hedge fund hotel operations. (Goldman inherited a small business from Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, which it bought in 2000.)

Bear Stearns’ hedge fund hotel clients tend to be small. Bear is unusual because it accepts only “hard dollar” arrangements, rather then venturing into the murky area of soft dollars.

Bank of America exited the hedge fund hotel business 18 months ago because of a lack of demand.

Lehman Brothers and Credit Suisse have been building their prime brokerage businesses. Lehman has space that it leases to a select group of clients, but it is not a major player in hotel space. Credit Suisse prefers to cater to a small number of institutional-quality hedge funds that are expanding into high-margin products like structured derivatives and reinsurance.

Jefferies, a bank that caters to midmarket clients, recruited a significant part of Bank of America’s prime brokerage team to build its business. Glen Dailey, head of prime brokerage, said the hedge fund hotel business was too expensive to build at Bank of America.

“It took a lot of resources, especially tech support,” Mr. Dailey said. “Clients would call because there wasn’t coffee or hot water. In the end, we felt like the client service group was spending 80 percent of its time on the real estate.”
24 2007-01-02 BANGKOK, Jan. 1 (AP) — Thailand’s military-backed government said Monday that it suspected that bombings on Sunday that killed 3 people and wounded 38 here in the capital had been carried out by supporters of the ousted prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra.

Nine foreigners were among the wounded after nine small bombs exploded across Bangkok and its environs on Sunday night. The attacks caused the city authorities to shut down large-scale celebrations, and raised concerns about Thailand’s stability, shaky economy and thriving tourism industry.

The bombings capped a year of unrest in Thailand that included a military coup three months ago and an increasingly violent Muslim insurgency in the south.

Nobody has claimed responsibility for the bombings, but the government is focusing on supporters of the former government — though it named no one specifically and presented no proof.

“From the evidence we have gathered, there is a slim chance that it is related to the southern insurgency,” Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said. “It is likely related to people who lost their political benefits,” he said, referring to Mr. Thaksin’s ousted government.
25 2007-01-02 The other source is the drive to find disease early. While diagnoses used to be reserved for serious illness, we now diagnose illness in people who have no symptoms at all, those with so-called predisease or those “at risk.”

Two developments accelerate this process. First, advanced technology allows doctors to look really hard for things to be wrong. We can detect trace molecules in the blood. We can direct fiber-optic devices into every orifice. And CT scans, ultrasounds, M.R.I. and PET scans let doctors define subtle structural defects deep inside the body. These technologies make it possible to give a diagnosis to just about everybody: arthritis in people without joint pain, stomach damage in people without heartburn and prostate cancer in over a million people who, but for testing, would have lived as long without being a cancer patient.

Second, the rules are changing. Expert panels constantly expand what constitutes disease: thresholds for diagnosing diabetes, hypertension, osteoporosis and obesity have all fallen in the last few years. The criterion for normal cholesterol has dropped multiple times. With these changes, disease can now be diagnosed in more than half the population.

Most of us assume that all this additional diagnosis can only be beneficial. And some of it is. But at the extreme, the logic of early detection is absurd. If more than half of us are sick, what does it mean to be normal? Many more of us harbor “pre-disease” than will ever get disease, and all of us are “at risk.” The medicalization of everyday life is no less problematic. Exactly what are we doing to our children when 40 percent of summer campers are on one or more chronic prescription medications?

No one should take the process of making people into patients lightly. There are real drawbacks. Simply labeling people as diseased can make them feel anxious and vulnerable — a particular concern in children.

But the real problem with the epidemic of diagnoses is that it leads to an epidemic of treatments. Not all treatments have important benefits, but almost all can have harms. Sometimes the harms are known, but often the harms of new therapies take years to emerge — after many have been exposed. For the severely ill, these harms generally pale relative to the potential benefits. But for those experiencing mild symptoms, the harms become much more relevant. And for the many labeled as having predisease or as being “at risk” but destined to remain healthy, treatment can only cause harm.

The epidemic of diagnoses has many causes. More diagnoses mean more money for drug manufacturers, hospitals, physicians and disease advocacy groups. Researchers, and even the disease-based organization of the National Institutes of Health, secure their stature (and financing) by promoting the detection of “their” disease. Medico-legal concerns also drive the epidemic. While failing to make a diagnosis can result in lawsuits, there are no corresponding penalties for overdiagnosis. Thus, the path of least resistance for clinicians is to diagnose liberally — even when we wonder if doing so really helps our patients.

As more of us are being told we are sick, fewer of us are being told we are well. People need to think hard about the benefits and risks of increased diagnosis: the fundamental question they face is whether or not to become a patient. And doctors need to remember the value of reassuring people that they are not sick. Perhaps someone should start monitoring a new health metric: the proportion of the population not requiring medical care. And the National Institutes of Health could propose a new goal for medical researchers: reduce the need for medical services, not increase it.
26 2007-01-02 Very low levels of LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, may be linked with an increased risk for Parkinson’s disease, a new study suggests.

Researchers compared blood levels of LDL cholesterol in 124 Parkinson’s patients with a control group of 112 of their healthy spouses. Compared with people in the highest one-quarter in LDL levels, those in the lower 75 percent were two to three and a half times as likely to suffer from Parkinson’s. There was no association between Parkinson’s and levels of HDL cholesterol.

Normally, having a low LDL level is a healthy sign. But does this mean that having a higher LDL is actually a good thing? Absolutely not, said Dr. Xuemei Huang, the lead author of the study.

“If a person is healthy with a cholesterol in the middle range, and no family history of heart disease, radically lowering cholesterol may not be necessary,” she said. “But at the same time, we’re not urging anyone to change his diet or medication based on this finding.” Dr. Huang is a Parkinson’s expert and a neurologist at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine.

The findings, based on retrospective data, could not demonstrate a cause and effect relationship between a low level of LDL and Parkinson’s, the authors said. The paper was published online Dec. 18 in the journal Movement Disorders.

Men and women in the study who used cholesterol-lowering drugs were about a third as likely to have Parkinson’s as those who did not use the drugs. This finding led researchers to suggest that testing the effect of statins on neurodegenerative disease with a much larger sample of patients could be useful.
27 2007-01-02 As much as the Mets wanted a pitcher of Zito’s talent, General Manager Omar Minaya opted not to urge Fred Wilpon to pay $18 million a year for seven years. The Yankees weren’t prepared to do that, either. Not even Tom Hicks, the Rangers’ owner and Scott Boras’s favorite victim, went for it.

But applying a variation of the theme of the greater-fools theory on the sale of franchises, there will always be someone willing to pay more than the previous buyer paid. There will always be someone willing to give Boras what he wants for his star clients.

The Los Angeles Dodgers gave Kevin Brown a seven-year contract for $105 million before the 1999 season — when he was 34 — but he pitched more than 132 innings in only one of the final five years of the contract, the last two with the Yankees, and he pitched the equivalent of five seasons out of the seven. He was on the disabled list 11 times.

The Rangers signed a Boras client, Chan Ho Park, to a five-year, $65 million contract. At the time, he was 28, the age Zito is now. In his first three seasons, Park was on the disabled list more than he was on the mound. He didn’t pitch more than 155 innings in any of the five seasons, the last season and a half with San Diego.

There have been exceptions to the curse of the long-term pitching contract, namely Greg Maddux (five years, $57.5 million, Braves), Martínez (six years, $75 million, Red Sox) and Mike Mussina (six years, $88.5 million, Yankees). The Giants can only hope that Zito joins them.

But he could also join Mike Hampton, Denny Neagle, Darren Dreifort, Mark Prior and A. J. Burnett.

Colorado signed Hampton and Neagle five days apart six years ago, Hampton for eight years and $121 million, Neagle for five years and $51 million. Hampton was that magic age, 28, had pitched more than 200 innings each of the previous four seasons and had averaged 33 starts in that period.

He was dreadful for two years with the Rockies, then wound up in Atlanta, where he missed much of 2005 with arm and back problems and all of last season after having Tommy John surgery.

Neagle barely made it through two years of his contract, pitching a combined 335 innings in those seasons, then lasting only 35 innings in 2003 and pitching not at all in 2004 because of a series of injuries. An arrest for solicitation of a prostitute wiped out the fifth season.

Want more? The Dodgers signed Dreifort, a Boras client, no less, to a five-year, $55 million contract for 2001. Injuries cost him two of those seasons, and he pitched 205 innings in the other three combined.

Prior was only 21 and a future great when the Cubs gave him a five-year, $10.5 million contract. He became rich but not great as a series of injuries limited him to a total of 657 innings, an average of 131 a season, and 106 starts, an average of 21 a season.

Burnett had a rough start to the five-year, $55 million contract he signed with Toronto a year ago, elbow problems reducing him to 21 starts and 135 innings.

And then there was Wayne Garland, a more remote but nonetheless relevant example. A 20-game winner with Baltimore in 1976, his fourth season in the majors, Garland, two years from 28, was in the first class of free agents. Cleveland signed him to a stunning 10-year contract for $2.3 million, a lot of money then.

Garland lasted only half the contract, making 38 starts and pitching 282 innings in his first season with the Indians but starting 50 games and pitching 330 innings in the next four injury-troubled years before the Indians released him.

“I wasn’t worth the money,” Garland said candidly the year after his release. “No one is. But if they are willing to pay it, I’m willing to take it.”

Twenty-five years later, Zito adopted the same philosophy.
28 2007-01-02 In recent days, the deserved commentary on Gerald Ford’s character has sometimes obscured how sweeping and lasting were his achievements.

Gerald Ford’s prudence and common sense kept ethnic conflicts in Cyprus and Lebanon from spiraling into regional war.

He presided over the final agony of Indochina with dignity and wisdom.

In the Middle East, his persistence produced the first political agreement between Israel and Egypt.

He helped shape the act of the Helsinki European Security Conference, which established an internationally recognized standard for human rights, now generally accepted as having hastened the collapse of the former Soviet empire.

He sparked the initiative to bring majority rule to southern Africa, a policy that was a major factor in ending colonialism there.

In his presidency, the International Energy Agency was established, which still forces cooperation among oil-consuming nations.

Gerald Ford was one of the founders of the continuing annual economic summit among the industrial democracies.

Throughout his 29 months in office, he persisted in conducting negotiations with our principal adversary over the reduction and control of nuclear arms.

Gerald Ford was always driven by his concern for humane values. He stumped me in his fifth day in office when he used the first call made by the Soviet ambassador to intervene on behalf of a Lithuanian seaman who four years earlier had in a horrible bungle been turned over to Soviet authorities after seeking asylum in America. Against all diplomatic precedent and, I must say, against the advice of all experts, Gerald Ford requested that the seaman, a Soviet citizen in a Soviet jail, not only be released but be turned over to American custody. Even more amazingly, his request was granted.

Throughout the final ordeal of Indochina, Gerald Ford focused on America’s duty to rescue the maximum number of those who had relied on us. The extraction of 150,000 refugees was the consequence. And typically Gerald Ford saw it as his duty to visit one of the refugee camps long after public attention had moved elsewhere.

Gerald Ford summed up his concern for human values at the European Security Conference, when looking directly at Brezhnev he proclaimed America’s deep devotion to human rights and individual freedoms. “To my country,” he said, “they’re not clichés or empty phrases.”

Historians will debate for a long time over which president contributed most to victory in the cold war. Few will dispute that the cold war could not have been won had not Gerald Ford emerged at a tragic period to restore equilibrium to America and confidence in its international role.

Sustained by his beloved wife, Betty, and with the children to whom he was devoted, Gerald Ford left the presidency with no regrets, no second-guessing, no obsessive pursuit of his place in history.

For his friends, he leaves an aching void. Having known Jerry Ford and having worked with him will be our badge of honor for the rest of our lives.

Early in his administration, Gerald Ford said to me: “I get mad as hell, but I don’t show it, when I don’t do as well as I should. If you don’t strive for the best, you will never make it.”

We are here to bear witness that Jerry Ford always did his best, and that his best proved essential to renew our society and restore hope to the world.
29 2007-01-02 Yet of all those former Ford advisers, only Mr. Kissinger continues to evoke the passions about Vietnam that Donald H. Rumsfeld, the former defense secretary, evokes today about Iraq. This year, the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, confirmed that Mr. Kissinger had been quietly advising President Bush about Iraq in private meetings in the Oval Office. Mr. Kissinger, Mr. Snow said, “supports the overall thrust and direction of the administration policy” in Iraq.

Given Mr. Kissinger’s firsthand experience in the anguishing decisions about withdrawal from Vietnam, the disclosure sparked the inevitable Iraq-Vietnam comparisons that Mr. Bush has assiduously sought to avoid. Now, Mr. Ford’s funeral is raising those comparisons anew.

Aaron David Miller, a scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center who recently interviewed Mr. Kissinger for a book about American policy in the Middle East, describes Mr. Kissinger as “the bête noire of the Vietnam antiwar crowd,” an image that he says cannot be avoided as the Ford and Nixon presidencies are revisited this week.

“Here’s Kissinger back in the limelight,” Mr. Miller said, “with a lot of his luggage coming along with him.”

Some of that luggage includes bags from Watergate. In 1969, as national security adviser to Mr. Nixon, Mr. Kissinger played a role in wiretapping the telephone of an aide, Morton H. Halperin, who was suspected of leaking classified information to reporters. Mr. Halperin sued. In 1992, Mr. Kissinger issued a formal apology.

“That was the price for my ending the lawsuit,” said Mr. Halperin, who became a civil liberties advocate and today is a leading opponent of the Bush administration’s domestic wiretapping. “Every time there was an event in the lawsuit, it would remind people of his role in wiretapping. He prefers to be remembered for other things.”

Mr. Kissinger is, of course, remembered not only for Vietnam, but also as being an architect of détente with the Soviet Union and the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. But slipped into the flattering tributes to Mr. Ford over the last week have been some unflattering depictions of Mr. Kissinger, including some from Mr. Ford himself.

There was some tension in the relationship. Mr. Kissinger was named secretary of state in 1973 by Mr. Nixon, all the while keeping his post as national security adviser. It was an unusual arrangement, one that allowed Mr. Kissinger to centralize his power over foreign policy while Mr. Nixon was preoccupied with Watergate. In 1975, Mr. Ford ended it, stripping Mr. Kissinger of the national security adviser title.

Mr. Kissinger balked. “ ‘Mr. President, the press will misunderstand this,’ ” Mr. Ford said, recounting Mr. Kissinger’s reaction to Bob Woodward of The Washington Post in interviews published last week.

The interviews painted Mr. Kissinger as a bit of a management challenge for Mr. Ford, high impact, but high maintenance as well.

Mr. Ford called Mr. Kissinger a “super secretary of state” but cast him as overly confident — “Henry in his mind never made a mistake” — and overly sensitive to press criticism, so much that he routinely threatened to resign over it.

“Henry publicly was a gruff, hard-nosed German-born diplomat,” Mr. Ford was quoted as saying, “but he had the thinnest skin of any public figure I ever knew.”

In a retrospective in Newsweek online, Mr. Kissinger had kind words for Mr. Ford, saying he “moved with calm and sure-footedness” to reassure the nation during what could have been a constitutional crisis.

But he also described how the former president relied on him, saying, “After Nixon told Ford of the decision to resign, Ford’s first call was to me.”

Mr. Rothkopf, who worked with Mr. Kissinger and interviewed Mr. Ford for his book, said Mr. Kissinger often said that “Ford was underestimated, that he was much more intelligent and much more capable than people gave him credit for.” Mr. Ford, he added, believed diminishing Mr. Kissinger’s role was his “most important contribution” to the foreign policy bureaucracy.

“What he was trying to do was restore Henry to the role of an adviser, not ‘the’ adviser,” Mr. Rothkopf said. “I think he had a sense that the national security system called for giving the president a range of views, and what had happened was that Nixon sank into the depths and Henry assumed greater power, that there was far too much judgment and power in the hands of one person who wasn’t the president.”
30 2007-01-02 Oh boy. Sorry once more. Those were indeed Mr. Spitzer’s sentiments. But the language belonged to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo at his first inauguration, in 1983.

As you can see, everything may change on Day 1 — except perhaps for an obligatory pledge from the new person in charge that henceforth all will be different.

Who knows? Maybe ethically and metabolically challenged Albany is indeed headed for a metamorphosis. But Mr. Spitzer may do well to remember Mr. Cuomo’s admonition years ago that while politicians “campaign in poetry,” they must then “govern in prose.”

Not that there has been much poetry coming from Mr. Spitzer (or, for that matter, from any other major New York politician of recent vintage). His phrases lean more toward the lawyerly than the lofty, although he sought yesterday to evoke memories of one of the great inaugural addresses, that of President John F. Kennedy in 1961.

What New York needs, the governor said, is “a politics that asks not what is in it for me, but always what is in it for us.”

That channeling of Kennedy served, no doubt unintentionally, as a counterpoint to an echo of Richard M. Nixon emanating, also unintentionally, from Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate majority leader. Mr. Bruno’s business dealings are being investigated by the F.B.I. “I am guilty of nothing,” he said as 2006 wound down. That may be true. It was difficult, nonetheless, not to think of Nixon’s “I’m not a crook” line.

Whatever its outcome, the Bruno inquiry reinforces the degree to which Albany, as Mr. Spitzer suggested yesterday, has been on snooze alarm for much of the last decade. That is certainly the case when it comes to ethical behavior.

With at least a dozen elected officials having been investigated, arrested, indicted or jailed in the last few years, the state capital is almost as crime-ridden as Dodge City on a Saturday night. The situation is such that the inauguration ceremony yesterday might well have been covered live by Court TV, perhaps with Bernard B. Kerik providing the color commentary.

INTO this mess steps a new governor whose well-publicized investigations as attorney general led some to call him “the sheriff of Wall Street.” It is a cliché favored by the same types who insist on referring to Rudolph W. Giuliani as “America’s mayor.”

The two men share certain traits. Both are highly intelligent and determined to succeed. Both also seem to believe in their intellectual and moral superiority, and have shown a capacity for vindictiveness. “The world’s smartest man” was Representative Charles B. Rangel’s description of Mr. Spitzer. It wasn’t said admiringly.

As with Mr. Giuliani, the veneration of Mr. Spitzer has its skeptics. Those who see the new governor as having at least one foot of clay already note his appointed secretary of state, a lobbyist for Cablevision with roots in the Bronx Democratic machine. Maybe not everything changes on Day 1, after all.

Fortunately for Mr. Spitzer, he has time to work whatever miracles he has in mind. Yesterday, there was evening, and today there is morning: the second day. Way back when, that was the day the waters parted above and below the firmament.
31 2007-01-02 And there was evening, and there was morning: the first day.     Sorry, sorry. It's just that it is hard not to get biblical when talking about our new governor, Eliot Spitzer....
32 2007-01-02 For most Americans, the biggest health threat is not avian flu, West Nile or mad cow disease. It's our health-care system.      You might think this is because doctors make mistakes (we do make mistakes). But you can't be a victim of medical error...
33 2007-01-02 Pete Seeger wrote it and Peter, Paul and Mary sang it and made it hugely popular during the Vietnam War. It could apply to the war in Iraq, but the refrain in ''Where Have All the Flowers Gone'' applies to baseball as well:     ''When will they ev...
34 2007-01-03 How does a harried investment banker send love notes? By BlackBerry, of course. For Charlie Asfour, an investment banking analyst with J.P. Morgan Chase, the tender, digital message was this: "Will you be my steady girl?" The BlackBerry holder on ...
35 2007-01-03 Lloyd Blankfein appears to have little in common with Marie Antoinette, but readers of Michael M. Thomas's fiery opinion column in this week's New York Observer can be forgiven for thinking otherwise. Mr. Thomas, a former investment banker and obs...
36 2007-01-03 Many schools use these colors, but they're most identified with famous universities (among the 10 top earners for merchandise licensed by the Collegiate Licensing Company). So name them....
37 2007-01-03 Intertainer, a video-on-demand company, last week filed a broad lawsuit asserting that Apple, Google and Napster are infringing on a 2005 patent that covers the commercial distribution of audio and video over the Internet. Founded by Jonathan T. T...
38 2007-01-03 Refco, the commodities broker that filed for bankruptcy protection in 2005, has exited Chapter 11 and is starting to make initial payouts to creditors. The firm formally emerged on Dec. 26 under a liquidation plan, although its estate still faces ...
39 2007-01-03 The Multi Commodity Exchange of India, the biggest commodity exchange in India, said it is receiving at least one approach a month from overseas investors seeking a stake in the exchange. The exchange wants a global broker or rival exchange to joi...
40 2007-01-03 Wax your skis and snowboards at home....
41 2007-01-03 It was Artest’s first game against the Knicks (13-21), his hometown team, since Nov. 13, 2004, when he was with the Indiana Pacers. Shortly after that night, Artest was suspended for his role in the Detroit-Indiana brawl. He was traded to the Kings (14-15) last season, after the Knicks had already played them twice.

The Knicks avoided some of the baggage that comes with the erratic Artest, but clearly lost out on a lot of talent as well. Artest made 15 of 22 field-goals attempts and had 8 rebounds. He overwhelmed Jared Jeffries with his strength, and was also too much for David Lee or Malik Rose. “He looked like he was just out there having fun,” the Knicks’ Stephon Marbury said of Artest.

Artest’s performance rendered moot the Knicks’ resurgent offense. After two games of shooting below 40 percent, they hit 49.4 percent of their shots . Jamal Crawford broke out of his slump by making 11 of 23 field goals and scoring 28 points. Eddy Curry had 19 points and 6 rebounds but failed to take advantage of a small Kings frontcourt. Sacramento lost Brad Miller to early foul trouble and then to a third-quarter ejection for arguing with a referee.

Coach Isiah Thomas spent the past several days pining for a reliable shooter — specifically for the return of Quentin Richardson some time this week. Reassurance came sooner than expected, and from a different guard. Crawford made four 3-pointers and for a time looked like he would lead a comeback. The Knicks trailed from wire to wire, by as many as 14 points, but came within 7 points in the middle of the fourth quarter.

The Knicks misfired the rest of the evening, while Artest, Mike Bibby (19 points) and Corliss Williamson put the game away. It left the Knicks 0-3 on this five-game trip.

Help is on the way. Nate Robinson’s suspension ends after Friday’s game in Seattle. And there is a chance that Quentin Richardson will play that night.

Dr. Lisa Callahan, the team’s director of player care, examined Richardson Tuesday night, and the report on his back was mostly positive: He was slightly stiff from Monday’s workout, and listed as doubtful for Wednesday’s game in Portland. He is considered questionable for the Seattle game.

With only three guards available for the past two games, the Knicks’ offense has suffered. And without much outside shooting, defenses have been free to harass Curry.

“The lack of shooting right now at that position is a concern,” Thomas said before the game. “With Richardson and Robinson soon to be back, that’s something that can definitely be cured. But right now on this trip it has been a concern.”

The Knicks’ last missing piece is Steve Francis, who is in Houston treating the tendinitis in his right knee. Despite speculation to the contrary, every indication is that he intends to return once he is healthy.

Francis is working out twice a day, for two hours at a time, with his personal trainer to strengthen the knee, according to his agent, Jeff Fried.

“Steve is doing this so he can give it the necessary time and attention and get back with his teammates and produce in a meaningful manner,” Fried said. “He wants to get back with his teammates.”

It would seem that Francis came back too soon from his last sabbatical. Francis shut himself down in mid-December and planned to rest for two to three weeks. Had he stayed on that schedule, he would have been re-evaluated this week. But when the Knicks lost Richardson to injury and Robinson, Mardy Collins and Jeffries to suspension, Francis played sparingly in three games before deciding to shut himself down again.

The hope is that Francis will be reevaluated in two weeks and could perhaps be cleared to play. In the meantime, Thomas has an easier job of managing his guard rotation.

The Knicks had a glut of guards to start the season and will again once Richardson and Robinson return. Without the pressure to start Francis (in deference to his $15 million salary), Thomas can use Richardson and Crawford, both natural shooting guards, next to Marbury, with Robinson and Collins providing backup.

That is a more manageable and flexible group. Long term, the Knicks would prefer to develop their recent draft picks, Robinson and Collins.

Ron Artest remains a Sacramento King, despite considerable trade speculation. He grew up in Queens. “It’s a little different,” Artest said of living in Sacramento. “It’s a little slow. It’s like living in Long Island, a big Long Island. It’s very relaxing and the family loves it.” ... Artest credited Isiah Thomas, who coached him in Indiana, for developing his offensive game. “Isiah gave me a lot of confidence,” Artest said.
42 2007-01-03 President Hu Jintao of China called on the “sons and daughters of China from overseas and home” to resist moves toward Taiwan independence, state news media reported. His comments, in an address to Parliament’s advisory body, were part of the annual New Year vocal volleys with Taiwan, whose president, Chen Shui-bian, used his address to reassert Taipei’s claim to sovereignty, saying, “Taiwan is part of the world, absolutely not part of China.”
43 2007-01-03 But Mr. Cuomo’s decision to emphasize public corruption issues so early represented a contrast of sorts to Mr. Spitzer, who rose to national repute during his own tenure as attorney general through his aggressive prosecutions of corporate malfeasance, rather than prosecutions of official corruption.

After the Hevesi case resulted in the comptroller’s guilty plea, Mr. Soares said his office was flooded with tips about wrongdoing. But his office has relatively few resources to prosecute them: just two lawyers — one of them currently on leave — and one investigator. Last December, as Mr. Soares was investigating Mr. Hevesi, the County Legislature eliminated the job of Mr. Soares’s chief investigator.

Appearing with Mr. Cuomo after yesterday’s meeting, Mr. Soares said they discussed the possibility of having Mr. Cuomo’s investigators and lawyers work more closely with Mr. Soares and his staff.

“We are in discussions regarding collaboration and how we can share resources instead of spending more taxpayer dollars to reinvent the wheel,” Mr. Soares said. “There are resources that they have on the state side that we do not have here on the county side.”

He added that “state lawmakers who have run afoul of the law should worry about our collaboration,” though he hastened to add that most state legislators “do good work, and they keep the public trust.”

Asked whether his office would act to recover some $500,000 in state grants directed by Mr. Bruno to a for-profit technology company in which a friend of Mr. Bruno’s is an investor, Mr. Cuomo said he would not discuss any specific matters that might come before his office.

“As a general matter, money that has been misspent should be recovered,” Mr. Cuomo said. “If the taxpayers’ money was misspent, then we’ll recover the money.”

During their meeting, Mr. Grandeau, the head of the lobbying commission, and Mr. Cuomo chiefly discussed Project Sunlight, a proposal Mr. Cuomo made during his campaign to unify five public disclosure databases into a single, improved database maintained by his office. The five databases cover pending legislation, contributions to elected officials, lobbyist registrations, state contracts, and businesses based in the state.

“It was something that I found very intriguing, as someone who has spent the last twelve years trying to keep track of what’s going on in Albany,” Mr. Grandeau said.

Mr. Cuomo’s idea has already earned some support from some of the state’s watchdog groups, which staged their own news conference yesterday to propose a set of sweeping new ethics laws. Among them were the creation of an independent ethics commission covering all state officials and employees; full and prompt disclosure of spending on legislators’ pet projects, known as member items; and tighter restrictions on the use of campaign money for personal use.

“You’re not going to have good-government groups applauding incremental change” this year, said Blair Horner, the legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group.
44 2007-01-03 Yet what heartened many market watchers was the market’s overall stability, and the rising sales, according to the Prudential report, in what is traditionally a weak quarter. Average prices were higher last quarter than they were in the same quarter a year ago. For all of 2006, average prices were also higher than the previous year, which included the peak quarters of the recent real estate boom.

At the end of December, the Prudential report found that the backlog of unsold apartments had dropped to 5,934 from 7,623, a decline of 22 percent and slightly below the inventory reported a year before, as apartments were sold and overpriced apartments were taken off the market.

At the same time, the Prudential report tracked 2,441 sales in the last quarter of 2006, an increase of 15.5 percent from the prior quarter and a 55 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2005.

Jonathan J. Miller, an appraiser and president of Miller Samuel Inc., prepared the Prudential report. He said some of the increase in sales might be exaggerated because of improved reporting by New York City, which last summer began providing sales information for previously undisclosed co-op sales. But he said that the increase in reported sales was the largest he had seen in several years, especially in the fourth quarter when sales typically decline an average of 8 percent.

But he said that he believed the market was strengthening and that it was now “just barely” a buyer’s market, but one in which buyers were frustrated because sellers were not making significant concessions. He found that the average discount from the final asking price for an apartment fell to 2.8 percent from 4 percent in the previous quarter.

Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group, said that sellers are now generally pricing their apartments realistically, and that with the economy strong and Wall Street bonuses high, “the psychology of the market is very positive.”

“The big story here is the story that never happened,” she said. “The story was supposed to be that prices would crash in 2006, and a strong buyer’s market will emerge. Buyers can certainly pick and choose, but those who think they are going to have a field day out there right now are mistaken.”

Ms. Liebman said the fear of a price collapse caused by a construction boom has not been borne out so far, and the outlook remained good for this year. She said several thousand planned condominiums have instead been turned into hotels and office buildings, as hotel profits and office rentals have risen.

The trends in the Manhattan real estate market have always been something of a puzzle, since the average and median prices tend to move up and down with the changing mix of large and small apartments and of apartments in old and new buildings.

In addition, the various market studies augment public records of sales with private databases compiled by brokers and appraisers of recent closings that have not yet been reported by the city.

New building sales also distort the data, since sales often close up to a year or more after they go to contract. Ms. Liebman predicted that average sale prices would rise next year as contracts already signed at new expensive luxury buildings with multiple sales of more than $10 million, like 15 Central Park West and the Plaza on Fifth Avenue, are completed.

Several reports showed significant price increases in very large apartments with four or more bedrooms and in studios. The reports generally showed the largest increases in very large apartments with four or more bedrooms, with declines in average prices for two-bedroom apartments, which still averaged above $1.5 million per apartment.

Overall, 2006 ended with an average price increase of 6 percent over the previous year’s sales, Mr. Miller said, while the median went up by 11 percent.

Mr. Heym, the economist at Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, attributed the continued strength of the market to the local economy, which he said has produced more jobs last year than in any year since the 2000 boom, and that interest rates that have remained low. Mr. Heym said, “2006 turned out to be a really good year, much better than people thought.”
45 2007-01-03 “We don’t have the money to take this burden individually,” Mr. Meles said during a speech to Ethiopia’s Parliament.

Diplomats in the region are hurrying to cobble together an African peacekeeping solution, but despite murmurs of commitment from several countries, including Uganda, South Africa and Nigeria, a force has yet to materialize.

Somalia is far from stable, with many heavy weapons still in the hands of warlords, and the country’s turmoil is likely to dissuade many nations from volunteering troops.

On Tuesday, Ali Mohammed Gedi, Somalia’s transitional prime minister, reiterated his plea for the nation’s many gunmen to turn in their weapons. But few seemed to be listening. The collection points across Mogadishu remained empty, and many young men defiantly vowed to keep their guns.

Meanwhile, the remnants of the once-fierce Islamist army continued to flee south from Kismayo, the port city 100 miles from the Kenyan border that had been a final stronghold until the Islamist military definitively collapsed there on Monday.

Kenyan authorities said 10 fighters were apprehended on Monday as they tried to slip through the border disguised as refugees. Eight had Eritrean passports while two had Canadian passports, said Alfred Mutua, a spokesman for the Kenyan government. All of them were carrying briefcases packed with cash.

“They definitely didn’t look like refugees,” Mr. Mutua said.

Mr. Mutua said that the suspects remained in Kenyan custody and that they would probably be returned to Somalia to face charges under the transitional government, though it has not yet set up a justice system.

The Islamists tried to improve their military prospects by calling for a global jihad against Ethiopia, a country with a long Christian history. But in the end, American officials said, only a few hundred foreign fighters answered the call, the bulk of them from Eritrea, Ethiopia’s archenemy.

Still, the Islamists were widely believed to have been sheltering several wanted terrorists, and American officials said they were hoping to use the swift collapse of the Islamist forces as an opportunity to capture men they have been chasing for years.

Ships from the Fifth Fleet of the United States Navy, based in Bahrain, have increased patrols off Somalia’s coast to prevent any suspects from escaping.

“Yes, we have a presence out there,” said Lt. Denise Garcia, a spokeswoman for the Fifth Fleet.

So far, though, no suspects have been apprehended.

Somalia continues to be a work in progress. The country’s transitional president, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, has yet to set foot in the capital, and only a select few officials of the transitional government have returned to it. Many of them seem to be pulling in wildly different directions.

On Tuesday, Hussein Mohammed Aideed, the interior minister and son of a notorious warlord, announced that he would like to erase the 1,000-mile long border between Somalia and Ethiopia.

“We should unite, just like the Europeans,” Mr. Aideed said at a news conference. “One money. One passport. One security.”

Many Somalis consider Ethiopia a historic enemy and were appalled by the suggestion.

“All I can say is that the interior minister is entitled to his opinion,” said Abdirahman Dinari, the spokesman for the transitional government. “But he does not speak on behalf of the government.”
46 2007-01-03 Ensco International Inc., a United States oil and natural gas driller, will join the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, replacing BellSouth, S.& P. said yesterday in a statement posted on its Web site.

BellSouth will be dropped because it was acquired by AT&T, the largest United States telephone company. The $86 billion deal was completed Friday after federal regulators cleared the purchase.

Cimarex Energy, a Denver-based oil and gas company, will replace Ensco in the S.& P. MidCap 400. Hornbeck Offshore Services will replace Cimarex in the S.& P. SmallCap 600.

All changes will take effect after the close of trading today.
47 2007-01-03 None of the recent entrants, except for Slovenia, are ready to join the euro zone. Half abandoned their entry plans over the last six months, and failed to produce new timetables for joining. The lack of progress reflects persistent fiscal problems and political opposition to the tough economic changes that euro entry demands.

The newcomers have also looked on with frustration as the older members have refused to loosen the rules to take into account the budget shortfalls and higher inflation rates caused by rapid growth after shedding decades of Communist rule.

Lithuania, one of the first of the newcomers to break with communism, hoped to adopt the euro on Monday, but it failed to meet the European Union’s inflation test by 0.06 of a percentage point this summer. Poland failed to muster the political consensus in favor of joining, and is threatening to hold a referendum on the issue in 2010. Hungary, burdened by political instability, has abandoned its previous target of entering the euro zone in 2010. Even Estonia, a Baltic tiger lauded for its economic prowess, has decided to move back its entry date from 2008 to 2010.

While the European Union’s newcomers grapple with whether to join the euro club, those already in are having their own doubts. In Italy, France and the Netherlands, there has been a public backlash against a perceived rise in prices since the euro’s introduction.

In France, Ségolène Royal, the Socialist presidential nominee, and her presumed main opponent on the right, Nicolas Sarkozy, have criticized the European Central Bank, which is responsible for setting monetary policy for the 12 countries that use the euro. Ms. Royal and Mr. Sarkozy have asserted that the bank is depressing growth by keeping interest rates too high. French officials recently suggested that countries should have a say over monetary policy, much to the annoyance of the bank, which regards its independence as sacrosanct.

Official figures suggest that fears that the euro has made things more expensive are more imagined than real, though some merchants seized on the adoption of the currency to camouflage price increases for everyday items.

Full-year inflation in euro zone countries was 2.2 percent in 2002, the year euro notes and coins were introduced, compared with 2.5 percent in 2001. Yet consumers across the euro zone complained of sudden price increases.

Such ambivalence has not gone away. Five years later, most Germans still long for their old currency, according to a recent poll by the market research firm Forsa. The poll, for Stern magazine and RTL television, showed that 58 percent of Germans would prefer the deutsche mark over the euro. In a recent survey by TNS-Sofres in France, 52 percent of those polled said giving up the franc had been “quite bad” or “very bad” for France, compared with 45 percent in 2003.

In Italy, a growing tide against the euro has led some politicians to call for the country to abandon the currency in a bid to restore Italy’s sagging economic competitiveness.

In Slovenia, however, polls indicate that the euro is still generally embraced, in part because it represents a final break with the Communist past. Much of the population is already familiar with the currency from shopping trips to Austria and Italy. But pride in the country’s readiness to join has been offset by fears that the euro will make life more expensive.

“I think a lot of small things are going to be more expensive,” said Bostjan Kozina, who owns a vegetable store. “We won’t raise here because there is too much competition, and people would notice straight away. But I think small things like coffee will go up.”

To try to assuage such concerns, the government has urged retailers not to raise prices. All goods on display in Slovenia since March have been priced in euros and tolars, and the dual pricing will remain in place until June.

While Slovenians brace themselves for a change in their currency, some economists argue that the euro’s successes are more symbolic than economic, and that it is misguided to push Eastern and Central European countries into joining a currency that has yet to yield the economic advantages its champions promised.

Robin Shepherd, who is a trans-Atlantic fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States and is based in Bratislava, said the euro had provided no obvious economic benefits to the 12 countries that use it. By contrast, in Britain, which has clung fiercely to the pound, the economy has outperformed that of the euro zone in five of the seven full years of the euro’s existence. (The euro was introduced as an accounting currency in 1999, with coins and notes first distributed in 2002.)

Other critics of the euro add that the euro zone’s one-size-fits-all monetary policy has proved too inflexible for countries growing at different speeds, while the euro has not managed to challenge the dollar as the world’s reserve currency, though it is making gains and rose about 11 percent against the dollar in 2006.

The euro’s defenders retort that the single currency has had the psychological effect of binding together the Continent, easing cross-border purchases for consumers and reducing the cost of transactions. They contend that the strict criteria for joining the euro club have motivated countries to strive for smaller budget deficits and lower inflation rates.

The discipline required for euro entry, for example, has helped Slovenia achieve steady growth of 4 percent a year, while managing to cut inflation to 2.3 percent, compared with 10 percent a decade ago.

There is a “tendency to take the euro as a scapegoat, which is extraordinarily unjust, unfair and false,” the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, recently told a committee of the European Parliament. Mr. Trichet added that the euro zone had achieved much better results in economic growth, job creation and inflation in the years since its introduction.

Whatever the economic challenges of the euro, in Slovenia, the biggest problem consumers may face is learning to handle small change. The euro will be valued at 239 tolars, a rate that has been in place since 2004 but which does not lend itself to easy mathematical conversion.

To try to help Slovenians cope, the Bank of Slovenia sent free calculators to 760,000 households.
48 2007-01-03 Tillie Olsen, whose short stories, books and essays lent a heartfelt voice to the struggles of women and working-class people, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. She was 94.

Ms. Olsen died after being in declining health for years, her daughter Laurie Olsen said.

A daughter of immigrants and a working mother starved for time to write, Ms. Olsen drew from her personal experiences to create a small but influential body of work. Her first published book, “Tell Me a Riddle” (1961), contained a short story, “I Stand Here Ironing,” in which the narrator painfully recounts her difficult relationship with her daughter and the frustrations of motherhood and poverty.

At the time of the book’s publication Ms. Olsen was heralded by critics as a short story writer of immense talent. The title story was made into a film in 1980 starring Melvyn Douglas and Lila Kedrova.

Ms. Olsen returned to issues of feminism and social struggle throughout her work, publishing a nonfiction book, “Silences,” in 1978, an examination of the impediments that writers face because of sex, race or social class. Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Margaret Atwood attributed Ms. Olsen’s relatively small output to her full life as a wife and mother, a “grueling obstacle course” experienced by many writers.

“It begins with an account, first drafted in 1962, of her own long, circumstantially enforced silence,” Ms. Atwood wrote. “She did not write for a very simple reason: A day has 24 hours. For 20 years she had no time, no energy and none of the money that would have bought both.”
49 2007-01-03 HONG KONG, Jan. 2 — Indonesian officials reversed themselves on Tuesday and admitted that they did not know what had happened to a passenger jet that disappeared from radar screens in bad weather on Monday shortly after issuing a distress signal.

On Monday, Indonesian Air Force and Transport Ministry officials told local and foreign news services that wreckage from a 17-year-old Boeing 737-400 operated by Adam Air had been found strewn on jungle-covered mountainside on Sulawesi island. They also said 12 of the 102 people on board had survived.

But later they said reports that the wreckage and survivors had been found were wrong. Officials said they had been misled by incorrect information from villagers and local officials in the remote area where the reports had originated.

“We apologize for the news that we released earlier,” said Eddy Suyanto, an air force official, The Associated Press reported. “It was not true.”

Indonesian officials said they planned to resume the search for the plane on Wednesday.

The presumed crash was another loss for the Indonesian aviation industry, which boomed after deregulation in 1999 led to the founding of several low-cost airlines but which has had a long history of accidents.
50 2007-01-03 “All the pieces are finally coming together,” said Kathy Keolker, Renton’s mayor.

Residential developers are putting up million-dollar homes and luxury apartments. The Seattle Seahawks and the Federal Reserve’s Seattle branch have either announced projects or have broken ground in Renton during the last two years. The Seattle SuperSonics basketball team is even considering a move.

“A whole lot of work has paid off,” said Alex Pietsch, administrator of Renton’s economic development, neighborhoods and strategic planning. “We’ve been working nearly 10 years to promote reasons to do business, play and live here. I think that message is starting to come through.”

Employment in Renton, now home to Boeing’s commercial jetliner division, has risen and fallen along with military spending and airline orders over the years. In 1990, jobs at Boeing accounted for 59 percent of Renton’s jobs, but have since declined to 29 percent.

When Boeing started moving workers out of Renton in the early 1990s and office vacancies hit 40 percent, the city sought to escape the booms and busts of the aerospace industry. It set about streamlining its permitting process, and putting together a marketing campaign with the local chamber of commerce, technical college, medical center and school district to bring new companies to town.

It was a well-timed move. After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, airplane orders plunged and Boeing laid off more than 27,000 people in the Puget Sound area. At its Renton operation, the company stopped producing the single-aisle 757 jet, focused exclusively on its popular 737 plane and consolidated employees and assembly lines. The move freed space on its 324-acre campus, allowing it to shed 46 acres. Harvest Partners eventually bought the parcel two years ago and is in negotiations to buy about 20 more acres.

“Years ago, everything was Boeing,” said Wilma Warshak, a senior vice president at Colliers International in Tacoma. “Today, there’s so much more diversification, and we’re not as dependent as we were.”

The changes in Renton extend far beyond Boeing and the shores of Lake Washington. Eleven years ago, the city moved automobile dealerships out of downtown to a site near Interstate 405 so it could redevelop the city center. Since then, a park, a regional transit center, a performing arts center, a seven-story parking garage and hundreds of apartments and condominiums have been built. Construction has begun or is planned for 412 units.

Still, the shores of Lake Washington are attracting the bulk of the attention. The Seattle Seahawks football team, owned by Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, plans to start building a 145,155-square-foot training center and headquarters — triple the size of its site in Kirkland — on 19 acres Mr. Allen owns.

They will have bigger workout spaces, room for up to 3,000 fans for spring training and enough space to bring all 115 employees under one roof. As it is, players sometimes have to do stretches in the locker rooms and do hurdling drills in the hallways at Kirkland, said Lance Lopes, the team’s general counsel and vice president.

South of the Seahawks site, Conner Homes has broken ground for Barbee Mill, a collection of 114 luxury homes from $800,000 to about $3 million, on the site of a former lakefront sawmill. Homes will range from 2,500 to 4,000 square feet. The site is near a former creosote plant declared a Superfund site for toxic-waste cleanup last year, but Charlie Conner, president of Conner Homes, said the location was worth it.

“Where else can you build a new community on the shores of Lake Washington?” Mr. Conner said. “This is probably the last big piece with large square footage on the lake.”

Farther down the lake near the Boeing plant, Seco Development is renewing work on its Southport mixed-use complex and putting up 195 apartments. Michael Christ, Seco’s president, mothballed work on three office towers and a 220-room hotel five years ago when the office market declined. Encouraged by the Seahawks move and the improving office market, he is looking for partners so he can go ahead with the office and hotel spaces.

“Renton is coming into its own,” Mr. Christ said. “Rents here are finally coming to a point where it justifies building. It feels more real than it has for a long time.”

Directing growth to Boeing’s old property and downtown has had another benefit: it lets the city comply with the state’s Growth Management Act without altering the character of its single-family neighborhoods. The law requires every city in the state to plan for denser growth.

Renton is not without its challenges. It has the busiest stretch of I-405 and the most congested interchange in the region. A proposed $1 billion in road improvements may relieve some of the congestion, if voters approve a gasoline tax next fall.

The Landing’s construction may also be delayed. A group of residents is challenging whether city zoning rules allow it to be built, and the Westfield Group, an Australian mall developer, has joined the opposition. The company operates nearby Westfield Southcenter, which broke ground on a 400,000-square-foot expansion in May, and may compete against the Landing for tenants. The projects are expected to be completed by mid-2008 into early 2009.

But Renton is not betting solely on new projects. Boeing says it has no plans to depart. The growing number of low-fare airlines and a weak dollar have bolstered orders for the 737 and made it the company’s most popular model. Through Dec. 20, Boeing sold 619 of the jetliners.

“The 737 is very much alive and well,” said Edmund S. Greenslet, publisher of the Airline Monitor in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. “Maybe in five to eight years from now there will be a new model, but it very likely will be built in Renton.”
51 2007-01-03 Paradoxically, Sarbanes-Oxley’s strict rules on oversight by boards of directors would have been insufficient to prevent the collapse of Enron. By the act’s standards, Enron had a model board; most members were distinguished professionals. The chairman of the audit committee was a former accounting professor and dean of the Stanford Business School.

Nor would the act’s provisions to create a stronger Securities and Exchange Commission have made a difference. The commission had been aware of Enron’s accounting techniques since 1992 and had never thought to question them.

Nor was Sarbanes-Oxley necessary in prosecuting the senior managers of Enron, WorldCom and other corporations where fraud was committed — all have been convicted of accounting fraud under laws predating the act.

The negative repercussions of the act on businesses might have been worth it if the act had achieved its primary goal: substantially increasing the confidence of investors in the accuracy of the accounts of firms listed on the exchanges. But that does not seem to have happened.

The best measure of investor confidence is the price-earnings ratio — the price that investors are willing to pay for each dollar of a company’s reported earnings. The overall price-earnings ratio for the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, however, has declined continuously since the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was being drafted in the spring of 2002.

Several leaders of the new Democratic Congressional majority have endorsed a relaxation of the audit requirements and other parts of the act. That is encouraging, but it is not enough. The basic structure of Sarbanes-Oxley is unsound.

One big problem is that the act nationalized the rules for corporate governance, reducing the value of the competition among the states for setting such rules. In addition, the act failed to resolve the major conflict of interest created when auditing firms are paid by the companies they audit. Rather than creating a regulation to change the system, Sarbanes-Oxley created an expensive and arguably unconstitutional new regulatory agency to regulate the audit firms’ activities.

And, as is too often the case, Congress has rewarded the failures of the very bureaucracies that failed to keep up with Enron — doubling the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Tinkering is not enough. Sarbanes-Oxley continues to discourage smaller companies from trading publicly and foreign companies from listing their stocks on American exchanges. In the eyes of investors, it hasn’t cleaned up any corruption, it has only forced companies to jump through hoops. As Senator Sarbanes and Representative Oxley drift into retirement, their act should retire with them.
52 2007-01-03 To the mantra of life’s certainties, add higher home-insurance rates to death and taxes.

Increasingly, buying a vacation home means allotting more dollars to cover insurance premiums, as rates in coastal towns soar and insurance companies move to stop writing policies altogether. Unfortunately, homeowners are left with few options.

The real estate market in Florida may have cooled this year but the price for home insurance continues to rise. “Homeowners are in for sticker shock,” said Chris Kowalczyk, a founder of HAC Florida, a group that he described as a “grassroots organization of angry homeowners” fighting for lower property insurance rates. “Insurance companies are canceling policies right and left even if you are not in the flood zone or near the water.”

But Florida homeowners are not the only ones facing higher rates. Coastal homeowners up and down the Atlantic seaboard and also on the Gulf are finding that coverage is simply getting harder to secure.

After about $38 billion in damages from eight hurricanes in 2004 and 2005, insurance companies are on the defensive. Insurers are removing wind coverage from some plans, not renewing policies and even pulling out of coastal markets altogether.

Condominiums are not immune to this trend either. Condominium associations, which are responsible for buying insurance, are being hit with rate increases. In turn, the new rates trickle down to condo owners in the form of a special assessment or greater association fees.
53 2007-01-03 Indonesian officials reversed themselves on Tuesday and admitted that they did not know what had happened to a passenger jet that disappeared from radar screens in bad weather on Monday shortly after issuing a distress signal.      On Monday, Indo...
54 2007-01-03 HELP WANTED AT GOOGLE -- Desperate to hire more engineers and sales people, Google is looking for applicants with interesting backgrounds, not just high grades. [Page C1.]    ROMANIAN FARMER VS. MINING GIANT -- A small-time Romanian farmer is batt...
55 2007-01-03 To the mantra of life's certainties, add higher home-insurance rates to death and taxes.     Increasingly, buying a vacation home means allotting more dollars to cover insurance premiums, as rates in coastal towns soar and insurance companies move...
56 2007-01-04 Spam pales in quantity compared to the number of e-mails you receive when you’re on the press list for the Consumer Electronics Show....
57 2007-01-04 For this year's entire SAG Awards nominees list, click here. Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role Leonardo DiCaprio / BLOOD DIAMOND - Archer (Warner Bros. Pictures) Ryan Gosling / HALF NELSON - Dan Dunne (THINKFilm) Peter O'To...
58 2007-01-04 Whirlpool said Wednesday that it had sold a number of properties belonging to Maytag, including most of Maytag's headquarters complex in Newton, Iowa. Whirlpool said it also had sold former Maytag manufacturing sites in Galesburg and Herrin, Ill.;...
59 2007-01-04 Hercules Technology Growth Capital, a specialty finance company, said Wednesday it had raised about $11 million when its underwriters exercised their option to buy an additional 840,000 shares of common stock. Hercules, based in Palo Alto, Calif.,...
60 2007-01-04 Adelphia Communications's plan to pay creditors and end one of the biggest bankruptcy cases in United States history was approved Wednesday by a judge in New York. Adelphia, once one of the biggest American cable television companies, filed for pr...
61 2007-01-04 “Afro Samurai,” a friend said recently, picking up the DVD from my desk. “Cool.”

“Afro Samurai,” he said again.

“Cool,” he said again.

The new animated five-part series on Spike TV, which starts tonight, has a strong title. And Samuel L. Jackson is the voice of the main character, Afro, who’s seeking revenge on Justice (Ron Perlman), who killed his father. So it locks in an audience right there.

But like much anime, even the new Americanized anime, “Afro Samurai” seems arcane from the start. It takes place in a black-orange post-apocalyptic landscape, overseen by an enormous statue of the Buddha. Sensibilities clash early on as Christian gravestones emerge from the desertlike earth. A lithe, handsome giant in hoop earrings, a karate headband and a flyaway Afro appears for a showdown with some sibilant bad guy who says, “I’ve been waiting a very long time for thissss.” The showdown starts off all Kurosawa, with swords and solemn words, but soon turns “Superfly,” with guns and funk.

Oh, also, the giant with the earrings, who dies, has a little son. The lisping man, whose lily-white midsection is displayed at length — that’s Justice — tells the boy, “You will be consumed with hatred for me.” And he is indeed, drying his tears long enough to vow his revenge and kick off the drama.

There: you’re in the club. Afro’s prime directive is in place. And, if you want to go deeper, Spike TV has conceived some elegant multimedia options. For more of the wavy, bruise-colored anime created by Takashi Okazaki and produced by Mr. Jackson, and to get straight on the characters and plot points, I tuned to the Web site, afrosamurai.com.
62 2007-01-04 Lawyers for two of the seven police officers charged in a deadly shooting in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina have asked a judge to throw out charges against their clients, saying testimony they were forced to give before a grand jury was being used against them. Lawyers for the two, Officer Ignatius Hills and Sgt. Kenneth Bowen, argued in court papers that their clients had testified under a court order that prevented the district attorney from using their testimony to prosecute them. On Dec. 28, four officers, including Sergeant Bowen, were indicted on murder charges and three others were indicted on attempted murder counts in the Sept. 4, 2005, shootings on the Danziger Bridge that killed two men and wounded four other people.
63 2007-01-04 The administration has had great difficulty filling the State Department position. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has asked several people who have turned down the post, according to senior State Department officials.

But administration officials interviewed on Wednesday would not say whether Mr. Negroponte was moving because the White House saw him as uniquely qualified for the diplomatic post, or because President Bush was dissatisfied with his performance as intelligence chief, or whether it was a combination of the two.

Mr. Negroponte has served as ambassador to the United Nations and to Iraq, and administration officials say Ms. Rice was trying to recruit him to bring more Iraq expertise to her office.

Administration officials from two different agencies said Wednesday that the leading candidate to become the new intelligence chief is J. Michael McConnell, a retired vice admiral who led the National Security Agency from 1992 to 1996. Admiral McConnell was head of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Gen. Colin L. Powell during the first Persian Gulf war, in 1991.

Mr. Bush had at first been reluctant to set up the intelligence post, but ultimately bowed to Congressional pressure and made the office a cabinet-level position.

As deputy secretary of state, Mr. Negroponte, who would need Senate confirmation for the post, would fill a pivotal foreign policy position that has been vacant since Robert B. Zoellick resigned to take a post at Goldman Sachs.

The shift of Mr. Negroponte, first reported Wednesday evening by NBC News, reflects a further transformation in President Bush’s foreign policy team that has already seen Robert M. Gates take over as defense secretary from Donald H. Rumsfeld. Mr. Bush still has other top posts to fill, including that of ambassador to the United Nations, left vacant with the departure of John R. Bolton.

Mr. Negroponte would move to the State Department as the administration is preparing a shift in Iraq strategy.

As a career diplomat who also served as ambassador to Mexico, the Philippines and Honduras, Mr. Negroponte brought a policy maker’s perspective to the role of intelligence chief, a post established by Congress at the end of 2004 to address a lack of coordination among intelligence agencies. He took over the job in April 2005, and said in an interview on C-Span last month that he expected to stay in his position until the end of the Bush administration.

Admiral McConnell is a career intelligence officer who is a senior vice president of Booz Allen Hamilton, an international consulting firm. During his tenure at the Pentagon and as director of the National Security Agency, Admiral McConnell worked closely with Mr. Gates during Mr. Gates’s time as deputy national security adviser and as director of central intelligence, and with Dick Cheney while he was defense secretary during the first Persian Gulf war.

Senator Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine and chairwoman of the Senate Government Reform Committee, was a major backer of the intelligence post, and on Wednesday she said of the reported transfer: “The director of national intelligence is an absolutely critical position. I’m disappointed that Negroponte would leave this critical position when it’s still in its infancy. There are a number of people who could ably serve as deputy secretary of state, but few who can handle the challenges of chief of intelligence.”

Representative Jane Harman, a California Democrat who also pressed for establishment of the intelligence job, said: “I’m worrying that our deficit in intelligence will not be corrected. I’m sorry Negroponte isn’t completing his term because he at least understood intelligence.”

Mr. Negroponte’s move to the State Department has been rumored for months. Ms. Rice was pushing to bring Mr. Negroponte in as her deputy, and officials in Washington speculated that the career diplomat might be more comfortable returning to the State Department.

The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, declined to comment on the change. “We don’t comment on personnel matters until the president has announced his intentions,” Mr. Snow said in an e-mail message Wednesday night.

Officials said one priority in replacing Mr. Negroponte had been to select someone who could pass swiftly through the Senate confirmation process. They also cautioned that the choice of Admiral McConnell was not final.

The job of deputy director of national intelligence is also vacant, and the White House is conscious that a long nomination battle in the Senate, where Democrats are now in the majority, could throw the intelligence office into disarray.
64 2007-01-04 Experts say the deficiencies of the laboratory suggest that crucial features like the vote-counting software and security against hacking may not have been thoroughly tested on many machines now in use.

“What’s scary is that we’ve been using systems in elections that Ciber had certified, and this calls into question those systems that they tested,” said Aviel D. Rubin, a computer science professor at Johns Hopkins.

Professor Rubin said that although some software bugs had shown up quickly, in other instances “you might have to use the systems for a while before something happens.”

Officials at the commission and other election experts said it was essential for a laboratory to follow its quality-control procedures and document all its testing processes to instill confidence in the results.

Commission officials said that they were evaluating the overall diligence of the laboratory and that they did not try to determine whether its weaknesses had contributed to problems with specific machines.

Computer scientists have shown that some electronic machines now in use are vulnerable to hacking. Some scientists caution that even a simple software error could affect thousands of votes.

In various places, elections have been complicated by machines that did not start, flipped votes from one candidate to another or had trouble tallying the votes.

Until recently, the laboratories that test voting software and hardware have operated without federal scrutiny. Even though Washington and the states have spent billions to install the new technologies, the machine manufacturers have always paid for the tests that assess how well they work, and little has been disclosed about any flaws that were discovered.

As soon as federal officials began a new oversight program in July, they detected the problems with Ciber. The commission held up its application for interim accreditation, thus barring Ciber from approving new voting systems in most states.

Ciber, a large information technology company, also has a $3 million contract to help New York test proposed systems from six manufacturers. Nystec, a consulting firm in Rome, N.Y., that the state hired, filed a report in late September criticizing Ciber for creating a plan to test the software security that “did not specify any test methods or procedures for the majority of the requirements.” The report said the plan did not detail how Ciber would look for bugs in the computer code or check hacking defenses.

A spokeswoman for Ciber, Diane C. Stoner, said that the company believed that it had addressed all the problems and that it expected to receive its initial federal accreditation this month. Federal officials said they were evaluating the changes the company had made.

Ms. Stoner said in a statement that although the Election Assistance Commission had found deficiencies, they “were not because Ciber provided incomplete, inaccurate or flawed testing, but because we did not document to the E.A.C.’s liking all of the testing that we were performing.”

She added that the test plan cited in New York was just a draft and that Ciber had been working with Nystec to ensure additional security testing.

The co-chairman of the New York State Board of Elections, Douglas A. Kellner, said Ciber had tightened its testing. But Mr. Kellner said yesterday that Nystec and Ciber continued to haggle over the scope of the security testing.

New York is one of the last states to upgrade its machines, and it also has created some of the strictest standards for them. Mr. Kellner said only two of the six bidders, Diebold Election Systems and Liberty Election Systems, seemed close to meeting all the requirements.

Besides Ciber, two other companies, SysTest Labs of Denver and Wyle Laboratories, in El Segundo, Calif., test electronic voting machines. Ciber, which has been testing the machines since 1997, checks just software. Wyle examines hardware, and SysTest can look at both.

The chairman of the Election Assistance Commission, Paul S. DeGregorio, said SysTest and Wyle received interim accreditations last summer. Mr. DeGregorio said two other laboratories had also applied to enter the field.

Congress required greater federal oversight when it passed the Help America Vote Act of 2002. Since then, the government also put up more than $3 billion to help states and localities buy electronic machines, to avoid a repeat of the hanging punch-card chads that caused such confusion in the 2000 presidential election.

The commission was never given a substantial budget, and it did not finish creating the oversight program until last month. Until then, the laboratories had been at the heart of the system to evaluate voting machines, a system that seemed oddly cobbled together.

While the federal government created standards for the machines, most of the states enacted laws to make them binding. The states also monitored the testing, and much of that work was left to a handful of current and former state election officials who volunteered their time.

As a result, voting rights advocates and other critics have long been concerned about potential conflicts of interest, because the manufacturers hire the laboratories and largely try to ensure confidentiality.

Michael I. Shamos, a computer scientist who examines voting machines for Pennsylvania, said about half had significant defects that the laboratories should have caught.

Besides certifying the laboratories, the Election Assistance Commission will have three staff members and eight part-time technicians to approve test plans for each system and check the results. The manufacturers will be required to report mechanical breakdowns and botched tallies, and Mr. DeGregorio said those reports would be on the agency’s Web site.

Dr. Shamos said, “This is not the sea change that was needed.”

He said he was disappointed that the commission had hired some of the same people involved in the states’ monitoring program and that it never announced it had found problems with Ciber operations.

Dr. Rubin of Johns Hopkins said the laboratories should be required to hire teams of hackers to ferret out software vulnerabilities.

And the laboratories will still be paid by the voting machine companies, though a bill now in Congress could change that to government financing.

A recent appearance in Sarasota, Fla., by the SysTest Labs president, Brian T. Phillips, also raised eyebrows. After a Congressional election in the Sarasota area ended in a recount last month, the victorious Republican candidate hired Mr. Phillips as a consultant to monitor the state’s examination of whether there had been a malfunction in the voting machines.

Several critics questioned whether Mr. Phillips should have taken such work, either because of its partisan nature or because it represented such a public defense of the industry.

Mr. Phillips said he did not see any conflict because his laboratory had not tested the software used in Sarasota. And the project does not appear to have violated the ethics rules of the election commission.
65 2007-01-04 The rules changes would also take aim at the so-called K Street Project, the effort associated with the hardball tactics of the former Republican leader Tom DeLay, to pressure trade groups and lobbying firms to hire Republicans or face the legislative consequences. The proposal would prohibit lawmakers and staff members from trying to exert partisan influence on hiring decisions.

“I think this package is more than a good-faith effort,” said Meredith McGehee, policy director of the Campaign Legal Center, an ethics group. Referring to the incoming House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Ms. McGehee said, “If these rule changes are any indication, she is serious.”

But the ethics rules do not address the most valuable gifts that come from lobbyists and others interested in legislation: campaign donations. And the Democratic Party’s fund-raising machine — revved up by the advantages of being in the majority — continued apace this week with individual members inviting lobbyists and other contributors to a host of events.

On Thursday night, Mrs. Pelosi is having a $1,000-a-head fund-raiser with performances by Tony Bennett, Carole King, Wyclef Jean and the surviving members of the Grateful Dead. “Ms. Pelosi is a huge Dead fan,” her spokeswoman said.

Senator Richard J. Durbin was among those who stopped by a reception Wednesday evening for a fellow Illinois Democrat, Representative Melissa Bean, who won a close and expensive re-election race in November. The reception, at Johnny’s Half Shell, a restaurant on Capitol Hill popular with lobbyists and lawmakers, drew lobbyists from both parties.

As they prepared for the pomp and festivities that will mark the Capitol Hill power switch, Democrats got a taste of the potential difficulties of governing with thin majorities in the House and Senate as well as a Republican White House and a presidential election two years off.

While Democrats sought to introduce their ethics legislation at a news conference, the antiwar activist Cindy Sheehan and others interrupted with chants of “Troops home now; de-escalate, investigate.” The scene vividly illustrated the pressure that Democrats will face from the left wing of their party to challenge President Bush more aggressively on Iraq. Ms. Sheehan and other antiwar advocates felt they contributed to the Democrats’ takeover of Congress.

At the same time, Republicans made clear they intend to hold Democrats accountable for their pledge to allow more minority party participation in legislation. They assailed Democrats’ plans to push through major legislation right away without allowing Republican alternatives. Though the Republicans severely limited Democrats’ input when they were in charge, they rejected accusations that they were hypocritical.

“The important point here is that the American people were promised a new way of doing business in the United States Congress,” said Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman of the House Republican Conference.

Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the new majority leader, said Republicans would get their chance after Democrats disposed of legislation on national security, minimum wage, prescription drug costs, stem cell research, student loan costs and energy.

“We said to the American people, ‘If you elect us, if you put us in charge, this is what we are going to do and we are going to do it in the first 100 hours,’ ” Mr. Hoyer told reporters.

Democrats were dogged by technical difficulties when a changeover in House Web sites delayed the formal posting of their ethics proposal.

The Senate will convene Thursday as well, with Democrats and Republicans meeting first in an unofficial closed-door session in the old Senate chambers to try to find some common ground. Aides said the Senate was going to take up its own ethics package next week, allowing a week or more of floor debate to shape legislation.

Besides the rules barring lawmakers from accepting gifts, meals or trips from lobbyists or the organizations that employ them, the House Democratic plan would also require preapproval from the Ethics Committee for any trips paid for by other outside groups aside from educational institutions.

On the subject of corporate jets, Democrats had previously discussed raising the rate at which lawmakers reimburse corporations or other sponsors for flights, but still allowing use of the jets. But the rules proposed Wednesday would bar lawmakers from any use of corporate jets.

Previous Democratic and Republican proposals about shedding light on earmarks, the pet projects lawmakers insert into major spending bills, left large loopholes, particularly in regard to military contracts.

In contrast, the new rules appear to apply to all spending earmarks as well as tax or tariff provisions that benefit fewer than 10 companies or people. They would also require disclosure of such items in each bill as well as the individual sponsors.

The rules would further require each House member requesting an earmark or limited tax provision to certify that he or she would not profit from the provision.

Democratic leaders also said that in February they would take up potential new restrictions on members of Congress and staff members becoming lobbyists, and that in March they would consider creating an outside panel to enforce the ethics rules — a step that lawmakers of both parties have resisted.

President Bush called for the Democrats to adopt even more drastic restrictions on earmarks, a perennial bane to executive branch officials who resent Congressional meddling in their budgets.

“One important message we all should take from the elections is that people want to end the secretive process by which Washington insiders are able to get billions of dollars directed to projects, many of them pork barrel projects that have never been reviewed or voted on by the Congress,” Mr. Bush said. He called on Democrats to require “full disclosure” of “the costs, the recipients, and the justifications for every earmark” as well as sponsors.
66 2007-01-04 Adelphia Communications’ plan to pay creditors and end one of the biggest bankruptcy cases in United States history was approved yesterday by a judge in New York.

Adelphia, once one of the biggest American cable television companies, filed for protection from creditors in June 2002, a month before its founder, John J. Rigas, was arrested and charged with looting the company.

Last July, Adelphia sold substantially all its cable operations to Comcast and Time Warner for $17.6 billion in cash and shares in Time Warner’s cable unit. Of that amount, $15 billion in cash and Time Warner Cable shares will be distributed to creditors. After winding down, Adelphia will cease to do business.

“The plan has secured the assent of over $10 billion in claims, representing approximately 84 percent of the claims in this case,” Judge Robert E. Gerber of Federal Bankruptcy Court wrote in a 267-page decision filed yesterday.

The plan was approved “after seven predecessor plans that made one creditor constituency or another — and in some cases nearly everybody — extremely unhappy,” Judge Gerber wrote.

An Adelphia spokesman, Mark Spiecker, declined to comment on Judge Gerber’s decision. A Time Warner spokesman, Keith J. Cocozza, also declined to comment.
67 2007-01-04 Miami Heat Coach Pat Riley began an indefinite leave of absence yesterday because of hip and knee problems. He chose the assistant coach Ron Rothstein to fill his spot on an interim basis.

Riley will have surgery tomorrow to remove chips floating in his right knee. Surgery on his hip, the malady that hurts him most now, is not yet scheduled. Riley, 61, does not know how long he will be out.

“I’m going to be displaced for a while, but not disconnected at all,” he said.

Miami is 13-18 after losing its fourth straight game last night, 110-95 to the visiting Los Angeles Clippers. Already this season, the Heat has seen Shaquille O’Neal, Dwyane Wade and Jason Williams — perhaps the three biggest keys to last season’s title run — miss many games with injuries.

“We have a championship team that is sideways right now, so this is going to be a great challenge,” Riley said. “Keep your notebooks open. We’ll see how it plays out.”

Also yesterday, Riley deactivated forwards Antoine Walker and James Posey because neither met a Jan. 1 deadline for a team conditioning goal regarding body fat.
68 2007-01-04 The Fed, as it has done repeatedly in recent months, indicated in its minutes that while inflation had moderated, the central bank’s policy makers were worried that it remained too high and that they might need to raise short-term interest rates. The minutes noted, however, that one unnamed member of the policy-making committee wanted the Fed to acknowledge that it could also cut rates to reinvigorate the economy.

“It was a blunt reminder to the stock market that the Fed’s going to err on the side of avoiding inflation,” said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers.

Stocks climbed steadily in the last six months of 2006, partly on the expectation that the Fed, which last raised interest rates in June, to 5.25 percent, would start cutting rates in the first half of 2007. But some economists and market specialists have suggested that that view was inconsistent with investors’ optimism that the economy and corporate profits would hold up well in the coming year.

“There is a sense in the stock market that you can have your cake and eat it too, that you can have good growth and rate cuts from the Fed,” Mr. Harris said.

The bond and futures markets, by contrast, have become a little less hopeful in recent weeks about interest rate cuts, and are now priced with the expectation that the Fed’s first rate cut will come in late June. Yields on the 10-year Treasury note, which move in the opposite direction of the price, have risen to 4.66 percent, from a low of 4.02 percent at the start of December. Bond prices and yields were little changed in yesterday’s trading after the Fed’s announcement.

“The bond market got the reaction to the Fed minutes right,” said Joseph Biondo, a senior portfolio manager at Biondo Investment Advisors, “and the stock market didn’t.”

Still, market specialists said the stocks’ late-afternoon recovery suggested that investors were not as moved by the Fed as it first seemed. Also, the energy sector was responsible for much of the decline in stock prices — the S.& P. Energy index fell 3.7 percent for the day. Analysts said warmer-than-expected temperatures on the East Coast helped drive down prices for crude oil and other commodities.

Another concern for the markets is the possibility that profit growth will slow. Companies will start reporting results for the fourth quarter later this month and, for the first time in four and a half years, profits may not post double-digit gains, said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for S.& P.’s Equity Research Service. He said he expected stocks to register a gain in 2007, but that the markets might first experience a correction typically seen late in an economic expansion.

“There is a healthy level of skepticism that is coming back into equity valuations,” he said.

The next few days could prove critical, specialists note, citing a market truism that the markets’ performance in the first five trading days of a year is a harbinger of their performance in the coming 12 months.

While it is too early to draw those broader conclusions, the market did appear to start off on a new footing. Toward the end of last year, volatility, a measure of the sharpness of the stock market’s movements, fell to historic lows.

“Volatility is back,” said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors. “That’s maybe the story for 2007. We have not seen it for a while. At this point in prior business cycles, we saw volatility spike back up.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s auction for four-week Treasury bills:
69 2007-01-04 LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3 — Two leading Hollywood agents with top-ranked writer and director clients in movies and television joined the Endeavor talent agency on Wednesday, after many years at the rival International Creative Management.

The announcement ignited a Hollywood-style scramble over prestigious filmmakers and television producers, as each agency strove to claim — or retain — the agents’ star clients. And it placed an obstacle in the path of ICM, which has been pursuing an expansion strategy, notably with its acquisition last year of the television agency Broder Webb Chervin Silbermann.

Robert Newman, the longtime film agent, and Matt Solo, who recently left his position as head of ICM’s television literary department, both were made partners at Endeavor. They join 19 other partners, including Ariel Emanuel, Rick Rosen and Tom Strickler; those three left ICM 12 years ago to found Endeavor.

In an atmosphere of tension over declining star salaries and studio pressure, Endeavor has had a relatively successful year, with its star client Sacha Baron Cohen and his box-office smash mockumentary “Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan.” The agency’s financing department helped to piece the budget together for this year’s critical darling “Babel,” written and directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu, also an Endeavor client.

Robert Newman is one of the movie industry’s best-known agents for filmmakers, having helped navigate a number of successful careers in both studio and art-house films. Clients have included Robert Rodriguez (“Spy Kids,” “Sin City”), Guillermo Del Toro (“Hellboy,” “Pan’s Labyrinth”) and Baz Luhrmann (“Moulin Rouge!”), all of whom Mr. Newman said would follow him to Endeavor.

Leaving ICM after 17 years “is the hardest decision I’ve made in my life,” Mr. Newman said on Wednesday. “They gave me my start in the business. I’m honored to be asked to join Endeavor, and do that with confidence that they have the greatest resources and opportunities.”
70 2007-01-04 Unlike onscreen e-books, which never quite caught on, downloadable audiobooks have taken off, driven by the explosive popularity of the iPod.

According to the Audio Publishers Association, downloads have grown sharply, rising to 9 percent of audio book sales in 2005; that is a 50 percent increase over the previous year. Audible .com, which pioneered downloadable audio books nine years ago, also sells them through iTunes and Amazon and has a membership model similar to that of NetFlix; its membership has grown 54 percent over the last year, to 345,200. Going exclusively to a downloadable format saves publishers the expense of duplication, packaging and distribution. And the savings are often passed along. Audible’s full-price version of “The Audacity of Hope” by Barack Obama costs $20.97 (although various discounts are available), while the CD version retails for $29.95; undiscounted, unabridged versions of Michael Crichton’s “Next” are $34.97 by download and $49.95 on CD.

Because of lower production costs, titles that a few years ago would not have had audio versions at all are now being recorded; the decision is based largely on projected hardcover sales. And if they prove popular enough as downloads, some of those productions will eventually be made into three-dimensional audiobooks.

The audio versions of Anthony Bourdain’s “Kitchen Confidential” and the New Yorker writer Susan Orlean’s “Orchid Thief” were both first available only to downloaders. Only after both hardcovers performed well — Ms. Orlean’s book was made into a movie (“Adaptation”), and Mr. Bourdain’s inspired “A Cook’s Tour,” his celebrity chef show on the Food Network — were both books rolled onto CDs.

In 2002, when “Three Junes” by Julia Glass was published, “we hadn’t originally bought audio rights and we didn’t plan to,” said Madeline McIntosh, publisher of Random House Audio Group. “Then in the 11th hour, word came through that the book had been selected for the “Today” show book club and was going to get a lot of visibility.”

The publisher scrambled to record the book and put it on Audible. It sold on the site exclusively until a year later, when Random House released a physical version of the audiobook concurrent with the paperback.

With virtually no promotional budgets, audiobook publishers rely on riding the coattails of the print version’s publicity, marketing and advertising. (Book ads increasingly include “Also available as an audiobook,” which audio publishers, protractedly battling the belief that listeners are readers’ intellectual inferiors, consider a breakthrough.) So while the success of a download-only title on Audible.com is a factor in determining whether to release a CD, publishers still link that decision more closely to hardcover sales.

Two Penthouse magazine books, “Between the Sheets: A Collection of Erotic Bedtime Stories” and “26 Nights: A Sexual Adventure,” were released in download-only audio versions in 2002, but like the books’ temptresses, they have had long legs. Sales remained so brisk that in 2006 “Between the Sheets” was the bestselling download-only title on Audible. So in August, four years after they were first recorded, Random House Audio released both titles on CD. With 7 of the top 10 download-only sellers on Audible in the erotica genre, the company has been a trailblazer in the category, albeit a conflicted one.

“We can tell our children that we helped to spawn the audio erotica industry,” Beth Anderson, the publisher of Audible, said with a laugh. “We started it not necessarily because we wanted to be in the erotica business, but because it seemed like a niche that wasn’t being filled.”

When Audible started nine years ago, “porn” and “sex” were popular Web search terms, even more so than now. So as an Internet company, Audible chose to offer racy titles. It now has hundreds of briskly selling erotica offerings, most available only as downloads, and increasingly geared toward women, including the “Herotica” series edited by the sex guru Susie Bright.

Such titles can be procured online discreetly and can be listened to discreetly as well. “One of the things that makes erotica sell better for us than other places is that when you’re on the subway listening to your iPod, no one knows whether you’re listening to The Wall Street Journal or a Penthouse book,” Ms. Anderson said. (This is perhaps alarming, given that a recent survey in AudioFile magazine found that 53 percent of listeners played audiobooks while driving their cars.)

Ms. McIntosh, the Random House Audio publisher, said that while the company was beginning to roll Penthouse titles onto CDs, based on their download success, “we don’t expect much in terms of bricks-and-mortar sales.”

Rather, she expects them to sell well on Amazon and through adult catalogs, where they can be bought by listeners who, as she put it, “might be embarrassed to bring them up to the register.” An added advantage: with a book on an iPod, there is nothing to hide under the mattress.
71 2007-01-04 There is more than one way to take the measure of books. You can of course read them. You can count pages, lines or words. Or you can dissect their texts, parsing and weighing words until they lose meaning while gaining literal substance, and then arrange the physical remnants of this concrete poetry into an epic of their own.

This is the method employed by Simryn Gill, who was born in Singapore and lives in Sydney, Australia, for her New York debut at the Tracy Williams gallery in the West Village. Ms. Gill, 47, has worked as a photographer, and this exhibition includes large black-and-white photographs of Run island, part of Indonesia; its small, dilapidated port was once central in the European nutmeg trade. The British ceded the island to the Dutch in 1667, as part of a treaty that gave the British a place called New Amsterdam, now known as Manhattan.

Ms. Gill is also an installation artist adept at reconfiguring found objects, books included. This is clear in the show’s centerpiece: a fascinating untitled work ensconced through Saturday in the front parlor of the Federal-era house occupied by Ms. Williams’s gallery. The room is a small, spare study that quickly turns strange: a bubbling brew of broken thoughts, natural history, literature, knowledge and the courses of empires.

The piece, which had its debut last spring at Tate Modern in London, has aspects of standard-issue late Conceptual Art, yet it is absorbing and often moving. To make it, Ms. Gill selected 123 books and targeted about 80 words. With the help of assistants, she combed through the books page by page, methodically tearing out by hand all instances of these words.

The torn-out words were sorted and bagged, then divided among 30 small gray archival boxes, two to four bags to a box. The boxed, bagged words and the 123 raggedy books constitute the piece, exhibited with three tables and six stools.
72 2007-01-04 Playaway is known for its Ready-to-Go line of audio book players, which are about the size of an iPod and play one book each. It is a concept that seems easy to apply to music, and that’s the idea behind the company’s $30 Kidz Bop to Go players, each featuring 20 songs aimed at children.

The players are most notable for the features they don’t have. There are no U.S.B. cables, CDs to rip or burn, downloads, online stores or batteries to recharge. Just turn them on, put in the headphones and you’re ready to go.

There is a tiny LCD screen that displays the track number and time remaining. The device is powered by one AAA battery that lasts 12 hours.

Volumes 1 and 2 of Kidz Bop to Go (www.playawaydigital.com) feature songs from the Kidz Bop team, who perform highly engineered versions of Top 40 songs. The sound quality is good, although the volume can get uncomfortably loud.

When looking for music to keep the children entertained, consider that for the price of 30 songs from the iTunes store you can get 20 preloaded Kidz Bop selections, with the player and earbuds to boot. WARREN BUCKLEITNER
73 2007-01-04 Like reggae? Encase your iPod in Rasta colors. Rooting for Manchester United or the Giants? Get an iPod case in your team colors. Vaja offers its i-Volution cases in thousands of color combinations, all in Argentine leather.

The i-Volution cases start at $70 and cover the front and back of the iPod. They include click-wheel protectors and cutouts for the iPod’s ports.

Available styles include the SP, with a sporty racing stripe ($90); the World Cup ($90), which comes in any of 31 combinations; and the Leather Suit ($70), which covers the iPod in a tight sheath of cowhide.

With the SP and Leather Suit designs, a buyer can choose an iPod color, base color and stripe color, and preview the finished product online. Vaja can also laser-etch one line of text on the back for $10 or a graphic for $30. The cases are available at www.vajacases.com.

Vaja makes cases for other devices, including the Creative Zen and Microsoft Zune, as well as a Palm Treo case with silver accents. JOHN BIGGS
74 2007-01-04 ONLY the most devoted treat their skis and snowboards to a professional hot wax as often as recommended -- every three to five outings. The process can be inconvenient and costly, so in recent years, do-it-yourselfers have started using easy-to-ap...
75 2007-01-04 John D. Negroponte, whom President Bush installed less than two years ago as the first director of national intelligence, will soon leave his post to become the State Department's second-ranking official, administration officials said Wednesday.  ...
76 2007-01-04 CHIEF OF HOME DEPOT LEAVES -- Robert L. Nardelli, the chief executive of Home Depot, who came under heavy criticism for his pay package and his failure to lift the chain's stagnant stock price, was ousted by the board. [Page A1.]    A VICTORY FOR ...
77 2007-01-05 Don't expect Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and antiwar activists to be kissing and making up anytime soon....
78 2007-01-05 "Casino Royale" is a hit with the British Academy. (Jay Maidment/Columbia Pictures) Breaking news: The Brits love "Casino Royale" and "The Queen." Variety breaks down the British Academy Film Awards, their Oscars, thusly: "Casino Royale" and "The ...
79 2007-01-05 Merck of Germany said Friday that it is considering the sale of its generic drugs business, which could fetch more than $5 billion, according to some estimates. Reuters reported that the German drugs and chemicals group seems eager to cut debt fro...
80 2007-01-05 The producers of Douglas Carter Beane’s new play “The Little Dog Laughed,” about a gay Hollywood star who is kept in the closet by his agent, have announced that the show will close after the matinee on Feb. 18.

The play, which cost a little more than $2 million and originally opened Off Broadway last winter at the Second Stage theater, will have played 22 previews and 112 regular performances at the Cort Theater on Broadway.

The likely prospect to move into the Cort is “Radio Golf,” the last of August Wilson’s 10-part play cycle on the black experience in the 20th century.
81 2007-01-05 The wireless chip maker Broadcom said Thursday it had reached agreement with a number of executives, including its acting chief financial officer, to increase the per share exercise prices previously in effect for certain stock options. The disclo...
82 2007-01-05 Pesident Jacques Chirac of France threw his weight behind the planned merger of the utilities Suez and Gaz de France on Thursday amid doubts over the future of the government-backed tie-up, issuing a veiled warning to those who might interfere wit...
83 2007-01-05 Book publishers braced themselves for a financial blow this week after a bankruptcy filing by Advanced Marketing Services, a book distributor. The company filed for bankruptcy protection last Friday, reporting more than $200 million in debt to doz...
84 2007-01-05 1) Colliding With Death at 37,000 Feet, and Living

3) Men Not Working, and Not Wanting Just Any Job

4) Fired Editor's Remarks Said to Have Provoked Murdoch

6) One Day, That Economy Ticket May Buy You a Place to Stand

8) Fortune's Fools: Why the Rich Go Broke

10) What Do Women Want? Just Ask
85 2007-01-05 The movie concentrates on only a few years in the life of Potter, who was born in 1866 and privately published her first book, “The Tale of Peter Rabbit,” in 1901. It proved so popular that she took it back to a publisher who had originally rejected it; he reconsidered once she agreed to reillustrate it in color. Published in 1902, it was an enormous hit, and the money she earned from it and its successors brought her independence from her strait-laced, nouveau-riche Victorian family.

The closest thing to a villain in the movie is Potter’s snobbish, social-climbing mother, Helen (Barbara Flynn), a stout, severe matriarch who refuses to recognize her daughter’s accomplishments even after she earns fame and fortune for her work. Determined that Beatrix marry wealth, she pressures her to choose a husband from a series of suitors, each more grotesque than the one before. Beatrix will have none of it. Her father, Rupert (Bill Paterson), though more sympathetic, kowtows to the will of the fearsome Helen.

Because her publishers, the brothers Harold and Fruing Warne, have low expectations for “The Tale of Peter Rabbit” — they dismissively refer to it as her “bunny book” — they hand the project to their younger sibling, Norman (Ewan McGregor). The role of a buttoned-up Victorian editor is a complete turnabout from Mr. McGregor’s usual rakes, but he inhabits it comfortably. Even after Beatrix and Norman become engaged (over her parents’ objections), they continue to address each other as Miss Potter and Mr. Warne.

Potter forms a tight friendship with Warne’s unmarried sister, Millie (Emily Watson, emitting mischievous sparks), and their sisterhood — they agree that there’s more to a woman’s life than marriage and children — gives the story its feminist credentials.

Once Potter achieves financial independence, the movie dawdles on pleasantly as she buys Hill Top, a farm in the Lake District, in 1905, and goes on to become a major landowner in the region in a campaign to preserve the area from developers; again, conflicts are minimized.

She later finds romance with a lawyer, William Heelis (Lloyd Owen), whom she would marry in 1913. Potter, who died in 1943, lived way beyond the time frame of the movie. At her death, she left 14 farms and 4,000 acres of land to the National Trust, along with her flocks of Herdwick sheep.

This much sweetness and light in a movie is all very well. But there’s a reason that recipes for cake and cookies call for a pinch of salt. In “Miss Potter,” there is only a grain or two — not enough to dilute the sugary overload. The film is the cinematic equivalent of a delicate English tea cake whose substance is buried under too many layers of icing.

“Miss Potter” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for brief mild language.

Opens today in New York and Los Angeles.

Directed by Chris Noonan; written by Richard Maltby Jr.; director of photography, Andrew Dunn; edited by Robin Sales; production designer, Martin Childs; produced by Mike Medavoy, David Kirschner, Corey Sienega, Arnold Messer and David Thwaites; released by Metro Goldwyn Mayer and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 92 minutes.
86 2007-01-05 “He served as director of the National Security Agency in the 1990’s,” Mr. Bush said. “He was the intelligence officer for the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the liberation of Kuwait in Operation Desert Storm.”

Although he has been a private consultant for the last decade, Mr. McConnell said he had stayed in touch with intelligence agencies and issues.

His work, he said, “has allowed me to stay focused on national security and intelligence communities as a strategist and as a consultant. Therefore, in many respects, I never left.”

Mr. Negroponte leaves his office at Bolling Air Force Base after only 19 months and with mixed reviews. The base is the home of a new intelligence bureaucracy created to solve the problems laid bare after the Sept. 11 attacks, but Mr. Negroponte barely had time to get it running. All over Washington on Thursday, there were questions about whether Mr. Negroponte was there long enough to lay the foundations of real change and whether his transfer suggested that the Bush administration was less committed than it claimed to be to an intelligence overhaul that President Bush had billed as the most significant restructuring of American spy agencies in half a century.

Senior administration officials said it was Mr. Bush who personally asked Mr. Negroponte to take on the diplomatic post sometime last month. It was the second time in two years that Mr. Bush had turned to Mr. Negroponte to fill a critical job: Mr. Negroponte became the director of national intelligence only after several other candidates had turned down the job. This time around, Ms. Rice had requested over the summer that Mr. Negroponte become her deputy. But the decision languished for months as the White House sought an adequate replacement for the spy chief, and as Mr. Negroponte vacillated between remaining at the helm of an intelligence community that numbered roughly 100,000 people and a return to the State Department, in the shadow of the administration’s most visible international figure.

Senior administration officials said that Ms. Rice wanted Mr. Negroponte to focus on China and North Korea, which have been among his focuses in the intelligence post, and on Iraq, a country he knows particularly well.

Mr. Negroponte has also served as ambassador to the United Nations, Mexico, the Philippines and Honduras, in a Foreign Service career that spanned more than three decades. A senior administration official who was involved in discussions about his nomination said that Ms. Rice regarded him as a foreign policy moderate who could help fill the big voids left by the departure of Robert B. Zoellick, who stepped down as deputy secretary last summer, and Philip D. Zelikow, who left the job of State Department counselor last month.

Ms. Rice would continue to play a central role in Iraq policy, the official said, but she has also made it clear that she wants to devote more time to a broader diplomatic initiative aimed at Middle East peace.

John E. McLaughlin, a former director of central intelligence who is a friend of Mr. Negroponte, said that he managed to make the transition from career Foreign Service officer to the intelligence arena with little difficulty, but that Mr. Negroponte was now returning to the world where he felt most at ease.

Mr. McLaughlin said he believed that Mr. Negroponte’s familiarity with the latest intelligence from Iraq would help to bring a “realistic” view of the situation there as the administration works to develop a new strategy.

But other intelligence experts expressed concern about what Mr. Negroponte’s departure might mean to the office he helped to establish. “My major concern about this appointment is not about the State Department, but what happens at the D.N.I. office,” said Lee H. Hamilton, who served as co-chairman of both the 9/11 commission and the Iraq Study Group. “The future of that office and the concept of intelligence-sharing is on the line.”

Top Congressional officials responded angrily to the news of Mr. Negroponte’s departure.

“I think he walked off the job, and I don’t like it,” said Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, the new chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.

Just as Mr. Negroponte is leaving his post, his office is finishing a major National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq’s chances of surviving as a unified, independent country — a review that was commissioned only after a Congressional request over the summer, on a problem that Mr. Negroponte will have to help manage in his new post.

“He came into it after just a year in Iraq, and someone without a strong background in intelligence, and I think he is leaving awfully early, given the importance of getting this right,” said Robert Hutchings, the senior diplomat in residence at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton, who once headed the National Intelligence Council.

“I think it is quite irresponsible,” he said.

Mr. Hutchings said the departure would compound “three or four years of nonstop turmoil” within American intelligence agencies.

Bush administration officials noted several successes during Mr. Negroponte’s tenure, most significant the creation and progress of the National Counterterrorism Center. Terrorism experts have credited the center with fusing information from across the intelligence community to understand better the global terrorism threat.

But as he assembled a staff of more than 1,500 people, he was criticized for simply adding another layer to a bureaucracy he was assigned to streamline. But some intelligence experts said that the criticism was unfair, and that the real blame rested with Congress for passing convoluted legislation that made bureaucratic bloat at the director of national intelligence office inevitable. Some critics say that the job of spy czar was never necessary to begin with. Some of those whom the White House first approached to take the job nearly two years ago — including Robert M. Gates, the newly installed secretary of defense — were deeply skeptical about whether that structure would work.

The White House spokesman, Tony Snow, said that President Bush was “very impressed” with the job Mr. Negroponte had done.

One of the greatest difficulties of Mr. Negroponte’s position has been trying to wrest control over multibillion dollar spy satellites and other gadgetry from the Pentagon, which historically had been in charge of 80 percent of the nation’s intelligence budget.

One of the top priorities of the former defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, was to expand the Pentagon’s role in intelligence gathering, and some members of Congress say that Mr. Negroponte was not aggressive enough in bringing the Pentagon’s intelligence budget more under his control.

Some intelligence experts believe that Mr. Gates is likely to be less territorial than Mr. Rumsfeld was about the Pentagon’s intelligence functions, and may even be eager to cede some of the Pentagon’s authority to the new intelligence chief. Others said that the job of corralling 16 sometimes dysfunctional intelligence agencies is an often thankless task, and one where it is difficult to have a noticeable impact. Mr. Negroponte is said by associates to have grown particularly weary of clashes with members of Congress.

“I think it’s pretty telling that both Bob Gates and John Negroponte prefer jobs trying to bail us out of Iraq to the job of trying to fix U.S. intelligence,” said Amy Zegart, a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and an expert in intelligence overhaul.
87 2007-01-05 After Syracuse rallied to within a basket of Pittsburgh late in the second half last night, the 10th-ranked Panthers called a timeout with the shot clock winding down.

When play resumed, Antonio Graves was left alone in the right corner and hit a 3-pointer with five seconds left on the clock. That was every bit as important in Pitt’s 74-66 victory as Levance Fields’ career-high 24 points or the 11 shots Syracuse’s Demetris Nichols missed.

“We showed patience,” Pitt Coach Jamie Dixon said. “We didn’t take a quick shot after the crowd got into it.”

The game was a rematch of the final of the Big East tournament last season, which the Orange won, 65-61, at Madison Square Garden. Aaron Gray had 9 points and 9 rebounds for Pitt (13-2), while Ronald Ramon had 12 points.

Nichols, who had scored 20 or more points in six consecutive games, was 4 of 15 from the field and finished with 11 points for Syracuse (11-4).
88 2007-01-05 Senior administration officials said that Ms. Rice wanted Mr. Negroponte to focus on China and North Korea, which have been among his focuses in the intelligence post, and on Iraq, a country he knows particularly well.

Mr. Negroponte has also served as ambassador to the United Nations, Mexico, the Philippines and Honduras, in a Foreign Service career that spanned more than three decades. A senior administration official who was involved in discussions about his nomination said that Ms. Rice regarded him as a foreign policy moderate who could help fill the big voids left by the departure of Robert B. Zoellick, who stepped down as deputy secretary last summer, and Philip D. Zelikow, who left the job of State Department counselor last month.

Ms. Rice would continue to play a central role in Iraq policy, the official said, but she has also made it clear that she wants to devote more time to a broader diplomatic initiative aimed at Middle East peace.

Mr. Bush is expected to nominate Mike McConnell, a retired vice admiral and former chief of the National Security Agency, to be Mr. Negroponte’s successor.

John E. McLaughlin, a former director of central intelligence who is a friend of Mr. Negroponte, said that he managed to make the transition from career Foreign Service officer to the intelligence arena with little difficulty, but that Mr. Negroponte was now returning to the world where he felt most at ease.

Mr. McLaughlin said he believed that Mr. Negroponte’s familiarity with the latest intelligence from Iraq would help to bring a “realistic” view of the situation there as the administration works to develop a new strategy.

But other intelligence experts expressed concern about what Mr. Negroponte’s departure might mean to the office he helped to establish. “My major concern about this appointment is not about the State Department, but what happens at the D.N.I. office,” said Lee H. Hamilton, who served as co-chairman of both the 9/11 commission and the Iraq Study Group. “The future of that office and the concept of intelligence-sharing is on the line.”

Top Congressional officials responded angrily to the news of Mr. Negroponte’s departure.

“I think he walked off the job, and I don’t like it,” said Senator John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia, the new chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.

Just as Mr. Negroponte is leaving his post, his office is finishing a major National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq’s chances of surviving as a unified, independent country — a review that was commissioned only after a Congressional request over the summer, on a problem that Mr. Negroponte will have to help manage in his new post.

“He came into it after just a year in Iraq, and someone without a strong background in intelligence, and I think he is leaving awfully early, given the importance of getting this right,” said Robert Hutchings, the senior diplomat in residence at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton, who once headed the National Intelligence Council.

“I think it is quite irresponsible,” he said.

Mr. Hutchings said the departure would compound “three or four years of nonstop turmoil” within American intelligence agencies.

Bush administration officials noted several successes during Mr. Negroponte’s tenure, most significant the creation and progress of the National Counterterrorism Center. Terrorism experts have credited the center with fusing information from across the intelligence community to understand better the global terrorism threat.

But as he assembled a staff of more than 1,500 people, he was criticized for simply adding another layer to a bureaucracy he was assigned to streamline. But some intelligence experts said that the criticism was unfair, and that the real blame rested with Congress for passing convoluted legislation that made bureaucratic bloat at the director of national intelligence office inevitable. Some critics say that the job of spy czar was never necessary to begin with. Some of those whom the White House first approached to take the job nearly two years ago — including Robert M. Gates, the newly installed secretary of defense — were deeply skeptical about whether that structure would work.

The White House spokesman, Tony Snow, said that President Bush was “very impressed” with the job Mr. Negroponte had done.

One of the greatest difficulties of Mr. Negroponte’s position has been trying to wrest control over multibillion dollar spy satellites and other gadgetry from the Pentagon, which historically had been in charge of 80 percent of the nation’s intelligence budget.

One of the top priorities of the former defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, was to expand the Pentagon’s role in intelligence gathering, and some members of Congress say that Mr. Negroponte was not aggressive enough in bringing the Pentagon’s intelligence budget more under his control.

Some intelligence experts believe that Mr. Gates is likely to be less territorial than Mr. Rumsfeld was about the Pentagon’s intelligence functions, and may even be eager to cede some of the Pentagon’s authority to the new intelligence chief. Others said that the job of corralling 16 sometimes dysfunctional intelligence agencies is an often thankless task, and one where it is difficult to have a noticeable impact. Mr. Negroponte is said by associates to have grown particularly weary of clashes with members of Congress.

“I think it’s pretty telling that both Bob Gates and John Negroponte prefer jobs trying to bail us out of Iraq to the job of trying to fix U.S. intelligence,” said Amy Zegart, a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and an expert in intelligence overhaul.
89 2007-01-05 The New York State court system has adopted revised advertising rules for lawyers meant to protect consumers from misleading or predatory marketing. The rules, which take effect on Feb. 1, permit client testimonials if they are factually supported and require the ads to disclose any payment made to those giving testimonials. Dramatizations are permitted if the use of actors is disclosed, according to Mark H. Alcott, president of the State Bar Association.
90 2007-01-05 As the minimum wage moves to the top of the new Congress’s agenda, some politicians — mainly President Bush and Senate Republicans — seem incapable of viewing the issue as anything other than a pretext for more tax cuts. This time the lucky recipients would be small-business owners, who the politicians contend will be unduly harmed by having to pay higher wages. So much for ringing in the new.

It has been more than nine years since the government last increased the federal minimum wage, currently $5.15 an hour. During that period inflation has severely eroded the wage’s value. Arguing that it is only fair to cut taxes on business owners when the minimum wage goes up is akin to arguing that taxes should have been raised as the wage fell because of inflation. Instead, as the minimum wage has eroded over the past decade, taxes have been cut sharply.

It’s even doubtful that the wage increase under discussion — a $2.10 increase over roughly two years, to $7.25 — would impair business. Eighty-six percent of small-business owners surveyed by the Wells Fargo/Gallup Small Business Index said the minimum wage had no effect on their businesses.

There’s also no reason to believe that the proposed tax cuts would be aimed at employers of low-wage workers. In 2006, when Congress tried to link the minimum wage to tax cuts, the proposals included an estate-tax cut for America’s wealthiest families. One proposal now being considered would allow small businesses to write off a larger part of their attorney fees when they go to court to challenge federal regulations. It sounds like a stretch to us that typical employers of minimum-wage workers — say, restaurants and small factories — are in any great need of relief from the high cost of federal litigation.

And then there’s the probability that tax cuts would cost the government far more than a wage increase would ever cost employers, driving up the budget deficit. The Economic Policy Institute analyzed the tax cuts that were linked to an unsuccessful attempt to raise the minimum wage in 2000. Those cuts would have cost $123 billion over 10 years, versus $11.2 billion for the wage increase.

It’s that sort of idiocy the new Congress was elected to stop. Chances are good the House of Representatives will eschew tax cuts and pass a clean bill to raise the minimum wage. The Senate should follow suit. And President Bush should sign it.
91 2007-01-05 Two people were reported dead and three children were missing after a suspected tornado hit Iberia Parish, Sheriff Sid Hebert said. In the Loreauville area, about 110 miles west of New Orleans, there were reports of seven mobile homes off their foundations and another four overturned, Sheriff Hebert said. Numerous homes also suffered significant damage. The severe weather prompted Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco to declare a state of emergency in four parishes. In New Orleans, crews were dispatched to clean drains ahead of a weather system that could bring several inches of rain to the area.
92 2007-01-05 Advanced Marketing Services also owns Publishers Group West, a distributor for a consortium of publishers including Grove/Atlantic, which may be hit hardest by the bankruptcy filing.

“It’s a mess,” said Morgan Entrekin, the publisher of Grove/Atlantic, adding that he had been meeting with lawyers for days and was scrambling, trying to figure out how to deal with the situation.

Advanced Marketing Services was granted $75 million of debtor-in-possession financing by creditors so it could continue to function for the next several months.

Publishers would not give details on their business relationships with Advanced Marketing Services, but the company accounts for as much as 10 percent of some publishers’ sales.

“We’re exploring ways to keep working with them,” a spokeswoman for HarperCollins, Erin Crum, said. A spokesman for Random House declined to comment.

The bankruptcy filing came over the New Year’s weekend, catching many publishing executives by surprise. The book industry is largely shut down the week between Christmas and New Year’s Day, and some executives were still trickling back to work late this week.

Advanced Marketing Services, founded in 1982, has headquarters in San Diego. It acts as a middleman between publishers and booksellers, obtaining books directly from the publishers and distributing them to retailers like Sam’s Club, Costco and BJ’s Wholesale Club. The company operates three distribution centers, in Indianapolis; Hanover, Md.; and Woodland, Calif.

Advanced Marketing Services’ financial difficulties were widely known in the industry, after an accounting scandal in 2003 resulted in the ouster of several senior managers. A lawyer for the company did not return calls seeking comment.

The distributor has near-exclusive access to the discount retailers known as price clubs, including Costco and Sam’s Club. The price clubs can produce lucrative returns for the right books, like cookbooks and mass-market reading, and can allow publishers to reach people who do not shop at bookstores.

Books are a relatively small part of the price clubs’ total business, but they have one attribute that retailers love: the suggested retail price is printed directly on the book jacket. Because the books are then discounted by at least 20 or 30 percent, this promotes the feeling among buyers that the stores are offering them a bargain.
93 2007-01-05 For the last 10 years, Mr. McConnell, a courtly, soft-spoken South Carolina native, has been out of government, working for Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting company. But much of his work has been for government agencies on intelligence and information security, and he has often written and spoken about the organization and future of spying.

Colleagues say he was first approached several months ago about the possibility of replacing General Hayden as deputy to John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence. He turned down that job and was eventually invited to succeed Mr. Negroponte in the top job.

Mr. McConnell first came to public attention as the top intelligence officer to Gen. Colin L. Powell, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, during the 1991 war. He conducted daily briefings not only for General Powell but for the defense secretary, Dick Cheney, now the vice president. He had contact with Mr. Gates, Mr. Hayden and Condoleezza Rice, now secretary of state, all of whom worked on the National Security Council in the administration of Mr. Bush’s father.

“He was measured, methodical and detailed,” Bill Smullen, then an aide to General Powell, said of Mr. McConnell’s war briefings. “Secretary Cheney saw Mike McConnell in action on a daily basis.”

Mr. McConnell became a familiar figure on television during the gulf war, explaining troop movements and airstrikes. But on becoming director of the security agency in 1992 he retreated behind its traditional curtain of secrecy.

Matthew M. Aid, a historian of the agency, said that during his four-year tenure, the agency’s monitoring did not keep up with the revolutionary technological changes in communications, including the Internet, cellphones and fiber-optic cable. But he said Mr. McConnell had been handicapped by a steadily declining budget and work force.

“He begged and borrowed and took money from research and development to pay for operations,” achieving considerable success in tracking the warring parties during the war in Bosnia, Mr. Aid said.

John Michael McConnell was born on July 26, 1943, in Greenville, S.C., where his father worked in the shipping business and his mother in the garment industry. He graduated from Furman University and was commissioned as a line officer of the Navy in 1967. He served a tour in Vietnam and then became an intelligence officer.

He is married to Terry McConnell, a homemaker, and has two children and two stepchildren, all grown.

Former colleagues invariably remark on his quiet and courteous manner and say he rarely shows a temper. On Thursday some wondered whether that was the right temperament for a job created to force 16 competing and sometimes feuding agencies to cooperate and share information.

But Mark M. Lowenthal, who served as staff director for the House Intelligence Committee when Mr. McConnell ran the National Security Agency, said he was not concerned about that.

“His quiet manner and his lovely South Carolina accent belie it, but I have no doubt he can be forceful when necessary,” Mr. Lowenthal said. He noted that Mr. McConnell had thrived at Booz Allen. “You don’t do that by being shy and retiring,” he said.
94 2007-01-05 The army-backed prime minister, Gen. Surayud Chulanont, told Thailand to prepare for repeats of the bomb attacks that killed three people in Bangkok on New Year’s Eve. He gave no details, but his comments are likely to keep the nine million inhabitants of the sprawling capital on edge after a string of bomb hoaxes and scares since the New Year.
95 2007-01-05 Until the cost of a front-line starter drops to a more palatable price, the Mets will continue to debate whether to add a cost-effective veteran to smooth the transition for their younger pitchers. If the price is right, the Mets are interested in the right-handers Tomo Ohka and Tony Armas, who know General Manager Omar Minaya from their time together in Montreal.

They are not willing to offer a long-term deal, preferring that Ohka or Armas bridge the gap between the rotation’s 40-somethings (Tom Glavine and Orlando Hernández) and its potential younger members like John Maine, Oliver Pérez, Mike Pelfrey and Philip Humber.

Ohka would probably cost more than Armas. Okha made $4.53 million last season, and his agent, Jim Masteralexis, said yesterday that he had received some two-year offers. Armas made $2.1 million last year and could probably be acquired for a slight raise.

Neither pitcher had a particularly memorable season last year. Ohka, who will be 31 on March 18, went 4-5 with a 4.82 earned run average for Milwaukee. He missed about three months with a slight injury to his rotator cuff and a hamstring injury. Masteralexis said that Ohka was healthy and training back home in Japan.

“I’ve provided the medicals from the Milwaukee Brewers to every team that’s requested them,” Masteralexis said. “We welcome any examination from a doctor, if we were to go that far with a team down the road.”

Armas, 28, went 9-12 with a 5.03 E.R.A. for Washington, but he still has time to rejuvenate his career.
96 2007-01-05 FAIRPORT, N.Y., Jan. 4 (AP) — Constellation Brands said on Thursday that its profit edged up 1 percent in its fiscal third quarter, helped by sales of imported beer and brand wines, but crimped by heightened competition in Britain.

The results were below Wall Street expectations, and shares of Constellation, which is based in Fairport, N.Y., near Rochester, fell $3.25, or 11.44 percent, to $25.15.

The company sells a variety of wines, among them Ravenswood and Estancia, and imports beer brands including Corona and St. Pauli Girl, as well as Fleischmann’s vodka, 99 Schnapps, Skol gin and Black Velvet Canadian whiskey.

In the three months ended Nov. 30, net income was $107.8 million, compared with $106.5 million in the period a year earlier.

Excluding acquisition-related costs, restructuring and other special items, earnings were 58 cents a share — short of the 60 cents forecast by Thomson Financial analysts. Sales before excise taxes rose nearly 17 percent, to $1.83 billion, from $1.57 billion a year earlier. Net sales after excise taxes were $1.5 billion compared with $1.27 billion.

Revenue from brand businesses grew 18 percent, helped by the acquisition of Vincor International, another large wine company, based in Mississauga, Ontario. Net sales of imported beer rose 16 percent, and total sales of spirits were up 4 percent.

A 29 percent increase in revenue from brand wines in North America contributed to an overall 21 percent increase in brand-wine sales on a constant-currency basis. But European sales fell 3 percent, dragged down chiefly by an abundance of Australian bulk wine in Britain.
97 2007-01-05 Mr. Brooks said in a letter to employees that he would leave “shortly.” He recounted how the agency was formed to improve security, and acknowledged: “We have not yet done so in over five years. For much of that time I was in charge of the N.N.S.A.”

On Capitol Hill and at the Energy Department, officials said that the department was concerned about oversight hearings planned by the new Democratic leadership of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.

Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said in a statement on Thursday evening, “While it may be appropriate to begin to address the incessant string of security, safety and management lapses at Department of Energy nuclear weapons facilities with the removal of high-level managers, I am afraid that it will take more than a new boss to fix the problems, which are far more systemic and pervasive in nature.”

Among the issues to be investigated was how a computer hacker stole Social Security numbers, birth dates and other sensitive information on 1,500 people at the nuclear weapons agency and why neither those people nor top officials were notified of the problem for nine months.

At the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group based in Washington that has issued a series of reports on nuclear security and that first revealed the drug raid, Danielle Brian, the executive director, said, “We applaud Secretary Bodman’s decision to force accountability at N.N.S.A., especially since it has been failing in its mission for years.”

But a former subordinate, Gerald E. Marsh, a physicist who recently retired from the Energy Department’s Argonne National Laboratory, said he was appalled at the dismissal. Speaking of the weapons complex, Mr. Marsh said, “I thought he was trying to do what he could to keep a declining operation functioning as well as he could.”

Mr. Brooks was previously deputy administrator for nonproliferation. He was the United States’ chief negotiator for the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with the Soviet Union, a role in which he had the rank of ambassador. He is a retired Navy officer.
98 2007-01-05 KABUL, Afghanistan, Jan. 4 — Pakistan’s prime minister, Shaukat Aziz, said Thursday that he wanted the three million Afghan refugees still living in Pakistan to go home as one way to end the problem of insurgents using the country as a haven.

It is the first time Pakistan has been so blunt in demanding that the Afghans, to whom it has served as host for more than 20 years since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, leave.

Mr. Aziz arrived here for talks with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, in an effort to smooth tensions between the neighbors, but after more than two hours Mr. Karzai acknowledged that relations were only growing worse.

“Unfortunately, the gulf in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan is getting wider, and it is not getting narrower,” Mr. Karzai said after their meeting.

The two leaders emerged with no agreement on the main areas of contention, namely Pakistan’s plan to fence and mine the border, and Afghanistan’s project to convene two tribal gatherings, or jirgas, of national representatives from both countries, to try to foster peace between the countries.
99 2007-01-05 CHICAGO, Jan. 4 (AP) — Boeing said Thursday that it received a record 1,044 orders for commercial airplanes last year, positioning it to formally regain the sales lead from Airbus for the first time since 2000.

Continuing strong demand for its 787 Dreamliner helped Boeing surpass the total of 1,002 net orders in 2005, when Airbus had a late-year surge to top it with 1,055. Boeing’s 2006 gross orders, a figure that excludes cancellations and conversions, came to 1,050.

Airbus, which has been losing market share, has trailed Boeing by a wide margin recently, with 687 firm orders reported as of Nov. 30.

Airbus, a unit of EADS, announced Thursday that the Pegasus Aviation Finance Company planned to buy two A350 XWB jets, Bloomberg News reported. It was the first order for the wide-body plane since its November debut.

Pegasus also ordered six smaller A330-200 jets, according to a statement from Airbus, based in Toulouse, France. Terms of the transaction with Pegasus, which is based in San Francisco, were not disclosed.
100 2007-01-05 Pirate Capital, a $1.7 billion hedge fund, plans to solicit proxies in support of its push to persuade the Brink’s Company, the armored-truck and security provider, to hire an investment bank for a possible sale.

In a regulatory filing yesterday, Pirate Capital also proposed electing its founder and another Pirate executive to Brink’s board. Pirate, based in Norwalk, Conn., owns 8.5 percent of Brink’s, which is based in Richmond, Va., and is its largest shareholder.

Both Pirate and MMI Investments, which owns 8.3 percent of Brink’s shares, want the company to hire an investment bank for a possible sale, in the belief that it is undervalued.

MMI made a similar request in a Dec. 18 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pirate Capital has sent several requests to Brink’s board seeking a sale, according to S.E.C. filings.

Edward Cunningham, director of investor relations at Brink’s, did not return a phone call requesting comment.
101 2007-01-05 “She always needs somebody to talk with because she likes to talk,” Ms. Acheampong said.

“She has lots of opinions,” added Keiko Aizawa, a social worker at New Alternatives for Children Inc. a preventive program that serves families with medically fragile children, including Ms. Acheampong and Shenay. The program is a member agency of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Mother and daughter have spent a lot of time in hospitals. Treating Shenay’s disease requires calcium infusions every three months. As an infant, it took her a month or more to recover from the infusions. Now it requires a three-day stay at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan.

When Shenay was 7 months old, in October 2003, she had brain surgery, and a shunt was inserted to allow fluid to drain. After the surgery, she had difficulty swallowing and was fed through a tube in her nose for two years, until last October, when a feeding tube was inserted in her stomach, which she prefers.

“It’s hiding, so it’s O.K.,” her mother said. “She didn’t want people to ask questions about the tube.”

Ms. Acheampong was unable to work while caring for Shenay during her preparation for surgery to insert the new feeding tube and then her recovery from it. She fell behind on rent. Neediest Cases was able to help. Ms. Acheampong’s monthly rent is $648 for her one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx. She receives $606 in Supplemental Security Income for Shenay each month, and $140 in food stamps. Shenay’s medical costs are covered by Medicaid. Ms. Aizawa put $300 of Neediest Cases money toward Ms. Acheampong’s rent for December.

Ms. Acheampong had worked as a home health aide and is eager to return to work when her daughter’s health allows. “I had more experience taking care of her. So I can take any case they give me,” she said.

Shenay is busy learning new things. She practices eating. “She’s trying to feed herself, but she can’t do it like a normal baby,” Ms. Acheampong said. “She’s weak.” Twice a week Shenay has therapy: speech, physical, occupational and feeding.

At the end of November Shenay got a back and leg brace, which Ms. Acheampong and the doctors hope will give her the strength to stand and perhaps someday to walk. “Right now they just want to start standing her up,” Ms. Acheampong said.

Shenay started school in the fall at St. Mary’s Hospital for Children in Queens, which provides grade level work and access to medical care. She gets there on a school bus three days a week. Even school at a hospital can be hurtful. “They want me to bring big clothes if I’m bringing her to St. Mary,” Ms. Acheampong said, so the staff can change Shenay without injuring her.

Ms. Aizawa said that, at New Alternatives, Shenay and her mother have found help and a role model: a 20-year-old woman with the same disease who grew up in the program. “She goes to Hunter College,” Ms. Acheampong said. “She lives in her own apartment. She’s in a wheelchair, and she needs lots of help, but she is a very bright woman with a great talent for art.”

Ms. Acheampong said that she and the Hunter College student talk on the phone “all the time.” Ms. Acheampong is hopeful that Shenay will be independent. “I’m hoping that she will be a bright person, a big person,” she said.

But mostly, they focus on today.

“This is the big job we do every day: scratch her hair 24 hours,” Ms. Acheampong said as she pulled her daughter close and gently scratched the back of her head. Shenay’s arms are too short to do it.
102 2007-01-05 While variations exist, a common match is 30 minutes long and includes six swimmers per team kicking, diving, defending and sucking fast gulps of air through snorkel tubes. The simple premise of the game — to push the puck into the opposing team's goal — is complicated by the medium. Underwater, communication is tough. The puck travels just a few feet per swipe, quickly slowed by the water's resistance.

And then there's the whole issue of breathing.

“Good teams have a rhythm, a Zen,” said Ben Erickson, captain of the Minnesota Loons, a club team in Minneapolis. Mr. Erickson has played underwater hockey almost every week for 25 years. “You just know or sense where your guys are, up or down or getting a breath.”

A main challenge of the game, Mr. Erickson said, is communication.

Low bubbly grunts and taps of the stick on the bottom of the pool are common devices. Ms. Nielsen screams through her snorkel to get attention, she said.

Lung capacity is important, though holding your breath for long periods of time is not a required skill. Rather, players who consistently swim up and down for the whole match — alternatively grabbing gulps of air and attacking the puck below — are most effective. “The rhythm is all about breathing and then dropping to the bottom; breathing, dropping to the bottom,” Mr. Erickson said.

Last August, five members of the Minnesota Loons traveled to Sheffield, England, to compete in the two-week-long Underwater Hockey World Championships, where Mr. Erickson's Zen strategies helped the United States take gold in the Men's Masters division.

Underwater hockey — called just “hockey” by its participants — is played by about 1,000 people in the United States, according to Gregory Appling, a director with the Underwater Society of America, which serves as underwater hockey's governing body. Club teams dot the map, from Sacramento to Sandwich, Mass.

Internationally, the sport is big in Britain, where it was invented in the 1950s by a group of divers looking for an off-season training regimen. New Zealand, Australia, France and South Africa have strong underwater hockey scenes, Mr. Appling said, adding that numbers are on the rise: “It's a sport you can play competitively into your 50s or 60s, so many of the veterans stick around while new people continue to come try it out.”

A POOL of deep translucent blue framed 12 members of the Minnesota Loons last week at the University of Minnesota's Aquatic Center, where the team met for a scrimmage. The game began at 7:30 p.m. on the dot.

“Sticks up, go!” a player yelled to start the match, prompting a mad swim to the center of the pool. A pink puck sat undisturbed on the bottom 8 feet down and in the middle of the 75-foot-long pool.

Fins kicked up in unison near the middle, green, red, black and pink rubber wings cresting like whale tails before the teams dove.

Players swam in circles, heads looking down. Snorkels poked up quietly. Splashing was minimal.

“All the action is underwater,” said Karen Nielsen, the team's self-described hockey mom, who was sitting at the edge of the pool. “They use the JumboTron screen with underwater cameras during important games.”

A lap swimmer from an adjacent pool walked over, toweling himself off. “Are they looking for a weighted ball?” he asked, dumbstruck.

But underwater, viewed through a face mask from the sidelines, the game's athleticism was easily seen. Twelve stick-wielding players crowded at a midfield play, bodies twisting, contorting, reaching for the puck. Swimmers dived up and down.

The puck skipped and jumped from stick to stick, moving down the pool toward a 10-foot-wide underwater goal. Bubbles leaked from snorkel tubes, air and energy waning quickly on the bottom of the swimming pool.

Passes and strategies played out. Sticks tapped the tile around the puck in miniature sword fights to gain possession. To distinguish who was who, one team wielded white sticks, and the other black.

“Did you see that move?” Ms. Nielsen exclaimed, surfacing to talk to her teammates. The opposing team — the White Sticks — had tapped in a goal, twisting past Ms. Nielsen and three other swimmers in an offensive dash.

Teams collect between each goal (4-3 is a typical final score for a tournament game), resting, breathing and concocting strategy. “Our forwards are getting too far away from our backs,” said Chris Tommaso, a 26-year-old chemical engineer. “Let's keep to the positions.”

Then at the signal — “Sticks up, go!” — both sides dived back in, swimming the front crawl to the center of the pool before heading down.

“Let the feeding frenzy begin,” said a player resting on the pool's edge.

Underwater, the athletes swam and spun in the deep fuzzy blue. Arms stretched for the puck.

Eight feet down, water pressure pushed in on ears and eyes. Players kicked hard, swimming off into the deep, twirling in the fizz of their own alternate universe.

THE sport of underwater hockey has a worldwide following of several thousand participants, including teams in Slovenia, Brazil, Japan, Zimbabwe and 28 other countries.

“The sport provides an outlet for former competitive swimmers and divers,” said Gregory Appling, a director with the Underwater Society of America.

Teams like the Minnesota Loons, a 25-member club in Minneapolis (www.mnuwh.com), practice once or twice a week all year and travel to tournaments around the country.

About 50 underwater hockey clubs exist in the United States, with teams from Hawaii to New York. Newcomers are welcome at most clubs, Mr. Appling said.

A list of underwater hockey clubs is at www.pucku.org/uwht.
103 2007-01-05 REVERSAL OF FORTUNE -- Activist shareholders, once derided on Wall Street as irrelevant distractions, are wielding growing influence in corporate inner sanctums as they successfully press for changes in investments strategies or the removal of exe...
104 2007-01-05 The producers of Douglas Carter Beane's new play ''The Little Dog Laughed,'' about a gay Hollywood star who is kept in the closet by his agent, have announced that the show will close after the matinee on Feb. 18.     The play, which cost a little...
105 2007-01-05 ''I'm O.K.! I'm O.K.,'' Shenay Acheampong, 3, insisted, her little voice slightly croaky from a cold.     Shenay was born with osteogenesis imperfecta Type III, a genetic condition commonly called brittle bone disease....
106 2007-01-05 In choosing Mike McConnell to be director of national intelligence, President Bush is turning again to a steady intelligence professional who first achieved prominence during his father's administration.     Like Gen. Michael V. Hayden, the Centra...
107 2007-01-05 In a move to expand beyond the search business in the world's second-largest Internet market, Google has made an investment in Xunlei NetworkTechnology, a Chinese Internet video firm, the company said. A Google spokesman said that the investment i...
108 2007-01-06 The ideal slate of Oscar candidates, as chosen by the three critics of The New York Times....
109 2007-01-06 Cowboys from around the world gathered at Madison Square Garden for the Professional Bull Riders Versus Invitational....
110 2007-01-06 BAGHDAD, Jan. 6 (Reuters) — Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said on Saturday that his security forces, backed by Americans, were about to implement a major new crackdown on illegal armed groups from all sectarian factions in Baghdad.

Mr. Maliki said in a speech at a parade marking Army Day that the plan would be implemented in spite of any criticism from political factions: “The security plan is ready.”

Military commanders in each neighborhood of the capital, where a U.S.-backed security plan was first launched five months ago, would have full powers to implement the plan as they saw fit in their own areas.

“After a review of the previous plans, we will depend on our armed forces to implement this plan and the Multinational Force will support our forces,” Mr. Maliki said. “They will intervene whenever they are called on.”

“We completely reject any interference from any political parties in this plan. There will be no refuge from this plan for anyone who is operating beyond the law, regardless of their sect or their political affiliation,” he said, adding that the plan would continue until its objectives had been achieved.

“We will come down hard on anyone who does not carry out their orders and who does their job according to his political or sectarian background. We will pursue those people under the law and punish them most severely,” he said, in an address at a monument to the Unknown Soldier, erected by Saddam Hussein.
111 2007-01-06 LOS ANGELES, Jan. 5 — Verizon Wireless is expected to announce on Sunday that it will offer full-length programming to its cellular subscribers from several major television networks, according to people apprised of the deal.

The service, which should be in operation by the end of March, will consist of eight channels and will include popular shows from NBC, CBS, Fox and MTV, they said. ESPN is reportedly also in negotiations to offer programs, which will be offered for the cellphone screen soon after they appear on television.

What is significant is that the programs will be among the first full-length television shows to be offered to cellular subscribers in the United States. In Europe, where mobile phone technology is more advanced, such programming is more widely available.

It will also make the mobile phone more competitive with devices like the iPod from Apple Computer. In 2005, Apple announced that it would offer shows from the Walt Disney Company’s ABC network for sale through its iTunes Store. Other entertainment companies quickly followed suit.

Media companies will receive a fee based on consumer subscriptions. A spokesman for Verizon Wireless could not be reached for comment on Friday evening.

In the deal, Verizon is joining with MediaFLO U.S.A., a subsidiary of Qualcomm, which has created technology to transmit high-resolution video through its own dedicated network. MediaFLO’s quality rivals European and Asian standards, media executives say.

Verizon Wireless and Qualcomm have been partners for some time; they first announced an agreement to work together in 2005. MediaFLO was reported by those apprised of the Verizon deal to be in talks to offer television shows through other wireless phone companies as well.
112 2007-01-06 A man at the wheel of a Renault opened fire at storefronts and bus stops near the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, but no one was hurt, the police said. It was not immediately clear if the man, who abandoned the car and fled on foot, had been aiming at anyone in particular.
113 2007-01-06 Although Mr. Space at times exudes a certain good-natured goofiness — his campaign Web logo featured a starry rendering of outer space, and one of his mottos is a riff on his father’s first name, Socrates (“being the son of Socrates, Zack Space knows a thing or two about ethics”) — he has a mission of the utmost seriousness in Congress. On Thursday, his first day, before all his boxes were unpacked and his shared apartment furnished, Mr. Space was given a high-profile role in introducing his party’s ethics reform package.

“The winds of change have brought me here,” Mr. Space said in his first speech on the House floor, arguing in favor of the package. “The time to act is now. We have an extraordinary burden to prove to those who have given us this honor. We must make clear to them that we are representing their interests, not bartering legislative favors in order to gain gifts and trips.”

On the other side of the Capitol dome, the incoming senators will not cast their first votes until next week (and the first one, a resolution honoring the late President Gerald R. Ford, will not exactly cause heartburn). Their transition will take longer in other ways: new senators are housed in temporary offices in the basement, while administrators try to establish which sitting senators intend to move.

That left freshman Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat who previously lived on an 1,800-acre ranch in Montana, squeezed into a small space in the bowels of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. In the office of Senator James Webb, Democrat of Virginia, the phone system was so problem-plagued that his line remained busy for hours on end.

But the wave of newcomers was most palpable in the House, where the dozens of arrivals circulated through welcome parties, herded their families on tours and waited in long lines to have their photographs taken with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the new House speaker. Representative Carol Shea Porter, a New Hampshire Democrat who won an upset victory, let out an audible gasp when she set foot on the House floor the first time, said her chief of staff, Harry Gural.

“Walking in was a little bit like walking into the lights of Yankee Stadium, going out onto the field as a player rather than a spectator,” Mr. Gural said.

The cable network channel C-Span chronicled even the most anonymous new members, setting up a camera position in the Cannon House Office Building to lure members of the freshman class into interviews.

“So far, so good,” said Representative Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii (and one of two new Buddhist members of the Congress), as she concluded her 15 minutes of C-Span.

Ms. Hirono had a press schedule, but little else: unable to buy office gear until she was sworn in, the newest Democrat from the farthest state was working without computers.

Unlike earlier eras, when newcomers simply showed up in Washington and had to fend for themselves, freshmen now undergo a series of orientation programs in the weeks between Election Day and the swearing-in.

“It’s much different than when I came here. You were on your own,” said Representative George Miller, a California Democrat now in his 17th term.

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and another House lifer, offered the freshmen some advice: Learn time management, and how to resist invitations to social events.

“The default answer when people ask you to do things should be ‘no,’ ” Mr. Frank said.

Then there is the issue of housing, always tricky for members of Congress who are in Washington on weekdays but at home in their districts most weekends. Mr. Space and his new roommate, Representative Michael Arcuri of New York, moved into their “small, subterranean” apartment earlier in the week, an arrangement prompted in part by Mr. Arcuri’s fondness for Mr. Space’s Greek cooking. By Friday, they still appeared to be getting along.

And Mr. Space, grinning as he wandered the halls, had not grown disillusioned by Washington, he said, nor strayed from his pledges.

“Not yet,” he said, when asked if he had broken any campaign promises. Then he corrected himself. “I mean — no.”
114 2007-01-06 Likewise, the inauguration was a chance for Mr. Schwarzenegger to take hold of the political center, something he did effectively during the election year — the accomplishments included passage of a major bill on global warming and another raising the state’s minimum wage — and in the election itself, which the governor, a Republican in a predominantly Democratic state, won by drawing large numbers of voters across party lines.

“We must think of ourselves as belonging not to just the Republican Party or the Democratic Party, but to the Party of California,” he said in his inaugural speech, moments after taking the oath of office with his wife, Maria Shriver, at his side.

The bipartisanship was evident in the half-dozen prominent California Democrats on the stage at the Memorial Auditorium, a 3,800-seat arena just blocks from the Statehouse. Among them was Gray Davis, whom Mr. Schwarzenegger succeeded after a recall election in 2003.

Mr. Schwarzenegger has already begun to lay out an aggressive agenda for his second term. A major address is set for Monday in which he is expected to announce plans for a sweeping health care overhaul that may include providing medical coverage for 6.5 million uninsured Californians. His State of the State address will be on Tuesday, and the announcement of his budget on Wednesday.

Friday’s speech was devoted primarily to one topic — centrism in what he called the “nation state” of California — though he struck almost presidential chords when he began his address with references to the war in Iraq, a country he described as “fertile with bloodshed and hate,” and the killing in Darfur.

“Faith and hope are two qualities that are in short supply in the world right now,” he said. “There are such deep divisions in our human family.”

By and large, however, the inauguration was a chance for supporters to enjoy the kind of pomp and star power that Californians have come to expect during Mr. Schwarzenegger’s tenure. Jose Feliciano and Jennifer Holliday serenaded the governor at the ceremony, and a gala here Friday night featured Paul Anka and Donna Summer as headliners.

Before the swearing-in, a procession of multiethnic performers took the stage, including an Irish-style dance troupe, a mariachi band, a black gospel choir and a white youth choral group, who performed wearing flag-adorned sweaters and shirts.

Mati Waiya, a ceremonial leader of the Chumash Indian tribe, arrived at the inauguration bearing a condor and an eagle feather, which he said symbolized peace and dignity. Mr. Waiya, who also wore a bear bone through his nose, said he had worked with Mr. Schwarzenegger’s transition team after the recall election and had been impressed by the governor’s efforts on the environment and his willingness to differ with fellow Republicans.

“I think he’s serving both sides,” Mr. Waiya said, “but it’s nice to see him get the Republicans a little upset.”

Indeed, the two major speakers on Friday, other than the governor, were Democrats: Mr. Brown and Ms. Shriver, whose mother is Eunice Kennedy Shriver, sister of President John F. Kennedy. The elder Ms. Shriver, 85, drew a standing ovation as she took the stage.

Mr. Schwarzenegger got a few laughs during his address with his now-familiar comparison of his political career to his action-movie days. “My escapes here have been more hair-raising than anything I’ve ever done in the movies,” he said.

But Mr. Brown got the biggest laugh, when he said Maria Shriver, a former television reporter, had “taken the role of the embedded journalist to the ultimate.” Ms. Shriver seemed to enjoy the joke.

Moments later, Mr. Brown went even further, calling Ms. Shriver “foxy and sexy,” something he said he would not have had the courage do if Mr. Schwarzenegger, still backstage before being introduced, had been closer at hand. Or not on crutches, for that matter.
115 2007-01-06 A former Merrill Lynch analyst caught in a sprawling $7 million insider trading scheme must serve more than three years in prison to show Wall Street that sharing inside secrets will not be met with leniency, a judge said yesterday.

The judge, Kenneth M. Karas of United States District Court in New York, said he was sending the former trader, Stanislav Shpigelman, to prison because he did not want those entrusted to protect secrets about stocks to think stellar academic backgrounds and great families would protect them from punishment for financial crimes.

Mr. Shpigelman, 24, was the “brightest of the bright,” one of a class of young, hard-working analysts employed by investment firms, Judge Karas said.

Judge Karas called Mr. Shpigelman the “essential component in the scheme” as he rejected pleas for even more leniency than the three to four years of prison called for in Mr. Shpigelman’s deal with prosecutors, in which he pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit insider trading.

Others made more than $6.7 million from October 2004 to August 2005 from various schemes, including tips Mr. Shpigelman provided while he worked in Merrill Lynch’s mergers and acquisitions division.

The case originated after regulators noticed unusually high trading volume before a merger announcement and discovered that a 63-year-old retired seamstress in Croatia, the aunt of one of the defendants, had made more than $2 million.
116 2007-01-06 Wall Street and the Treasury market ended the first week of 2007 with sharp losses yesterday after a surprising surge in new jobs and wages diminished the hopes of investors for an interest rate cut.

The markets shuddered at the Labor Department’s report that employers increased their payrolls by 167,000 in December and increased the hourly wages of workers by 0.5 percent. The unemployment rate, meanwhile, held steady at 4.5 percent.

The report suggested that the economy will not be slowing as much as investors anticipated — news that should prove positive for stocks in the long term, but which raised concerns yesterday that the Federal Reserve might use it as a reason to raise interest rates.

A rise in rates could crimp consumer spending, and further weaken the housing market by making mortgages more expensive.

At this point, though, economists see policy makers keeping rates steady.

“Until we get an uptick in the unemployment rate, in this environment the Fed will probably stay in a holding pattern,” said Michael Strauss, chief economist at Commonfund, pointing to the slowing, but still expanding, economy.
117 2007-01-06 WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 (Reuters) — Financial regulators on Friday issued final guidance aimed at helping banks and other institutions identify and control heightened risks from certain complex structured finance transactions, like those that led to the collapse of Enron in 2001.

The final statement is substantially similar to the previous version issued for comment in May, providing a principles-based approach to address structured finance risks, the regulators said jointly.

But it differed from temporary guidance put in place in 2004 that included stronger language describing the transactions institutions should avoid. The 2004 version also called for specific guidance on the documentation practices and the roles a financial institution’s board plays in preventing abusive deals.

Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, criticized the new guidance as weaker.

The final guidance says that banks engaging in complex structured finance transactions should have formal written corporate policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and control risks associated with such deals, with an emphasis on those that present elevated levels of legal or reputational risk to the institution.
118 2007-01-06 TOKYO, Jan. 5 (AP) — Japanese and American officials warned Friday of tougher measures against North Korea if it conducted a second nuclear test.

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice cautioned North Korea that a second nuclear test “no doubt would deepen its isolation.”

Ms. Rice and South Korea’s foreign minister, Song Min-soon, agreed at a news conference in Washington that their governments wanted negotiations on North Korea’s nuclear program resumed.

“If North Korea is prepared to return in a more constructive spirit” the talks could be reopened fairly soon, Ms. Rice said. But she added, “We know of no substantive response from the North Koreans.”

American news reports indicated this week that North Korea was preparing for another nuclear test and that it has taken steps similar to those taken before its first nuclear detonation on Oct. 9.
119 2007-01-06 “You hear pet owners say: ‘The dog really wags his tail when I give him a treat. It’s hard to hold back,’ ” Mr. Fennell said.

The epidemic of obesity in dogs mirrors a similar problem in humans in this country. And veterinarians say that humans are mostly to blame for fat dogs. “People are treating their dogs like children,” said Dr. Hal Taylor III, a veterinarian in Columbus, Ohio, who calls obesity one of the biggest health issues dogs face. “They overindulge them, they get them heavy.” Dr. Taylor has conducted research for Iams, the dog food manufacturer, to help find weight-loss food formulas.

Slentrol is unlike any drug for human weight loss, but similar drugs have been studied as a way to reduce harmful fats in the blood of humans. The drugs were never marketed for people because of potential liver problems. In fact, the Slentrol label will carry a warning that it should not be used by people, and Pfizer said it should not be used for other pets.

One researcher who has studied the drugs said they could turn the liver into something resembling foie gras. Roger Davis, a heart researcher at San Diego State University who has no connection to the Pfizer product, said similar drugs might be used in the future by humans to reduce lipids in the blood, but only with another agent that blocks liver fat. Dr. Davis has been researching that drug combination.

Dr. S. Kristina Wahlstrom, a veterinarian and Pfizer executive, said liver problems were not an issue in dogs treated with Slentrol during the company’s studies of 550 dogs. The primary side effect in dogs, she said, is vomiting.

Slentrol is a liquid that can be added to a dog’s food or placed directly in its mouth. The duration of treatment will depend on the amount of weight a dog needs to lose. In clinical studies of the drug, dogs on Slentrol lost about 3 percent of their weight a month, without changing their diets.

The problem of pudgy dogs has been cropping up more and more in veterinary clinics, where dogs are treated for cardiovascular problems, diabetes, torn ligaments, sores on their elbows, hip and back problems, and arthritis, all related to obesity. Some breeds, though, like beagles, dachshunds and Labrador retrievers, appear to be more prone to obesity than others.

Deirdre Chiaramonte, a Manhattan veterinarian, said obesity caused particular problems for large dogs. “They will get pressure sores, they will clearly be laying down a lot. They’re going to have more arthritis because they’re carrying around a lot of extra weight,” she said.

For humans, an industry of diet centers, gyms and weight-loss doctors caters to a national obesity epidemic. Slentrol is part of a similar industry springing up for animals. Animal Medical Center in New York is considering an obesity program for dogs, using two underwater treadmills, Dr. Chiaramonte said.

But Dr. Taylor said he would emphasize diet and exercise for his dog patients and prescribe Slentrol only for the most obese and infirm, citing the hypothetical example of a 13-year-old dog with severe arthritis.

“We can’t stop people from eating Big Macs. We can dogs,” he said. “To me, the problem is very fixable.”
120 2007-01-06 Best Buy and Circuit City Stores, the nation’s largest electronics retailers, reported December sales yesterday that exceeded analysts’ estimates.

Both companies raised sales forecasts for the rest of the fourth quarter. Best Buy’s sales in stores open at least 14 months climbed 7 percent, while Circuit City’s same-store sales increased 4.2 percent.

It was Best Buy’s biggest December sales gain in three years.

Electronics sales were a bright spot for retailers facing slowing revenue this holiday season. Flat-panel TVs and video game consoles were big sellers.

“It looks pretty good right now,” said David Keuler, a managing director at Mason Street Advisors in Milwaukee. “The holiday finished well, and people should be pleased about that.”

Circuit City raised its annual sales growth forecast to as much as 10 percent, up from 9 percent.

The chief executive, Philip J. Schoonover, said January and February sales growth might slow as customers switch to Microsoft’s new Vista computer operating system. Vista will be released to consumers on Jan. 30.
121 2007-01-06 ADVOCATES for looser restrictions on copyrights had high hopes for the new Democratic Congress. Those hopes faded somewhat last month when Representative Howard L. Berman was named chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees the Internet and intellectual property.

Putting Mr. Berman in charge of the panel, diminishes the chances for “real reform” of copyright policy, Lawrence Lessig, perhaps the best-known authority on the legal issues surrounding intellectual property and the Internet, wrote last week on his blog (lessig.org). Change is needed, he wrote, “to fit the legitimate objectives of copyright — to assure that artists have the incentives they need to create great new work — into the contours of digital technology.”

Mr. Berman, though widely regarded as a smart and savvy politician, is a favorite boogeyman of advocates for copyright reform, many of whom say he is in the pocket of his Hollywood constituents (he actually represents the San Fernando Valley, but many media industry figures live there).

In 2002, he introduced a bill that would have allowed media companies to hack into peer-to-peer networks to “disrupt” or “impair” illicit file trading. The proposed law would have limited the liability of copyright owners to $50 “per impairment to the property of the affected file trader.”

Critics said the measure, which never got out of committee, would have essentially allowed copyright holders to destroy people’s computers with near impunity. Mr. Berman labeled the loudest criticism as “hysteria,” and insisted his bill included adequate limitations and consumer protections.
122 2007-01-06 A refinement of the strategy is to buy just the five Dogs with the lowest share prices at the end of each year. Doing so would have raised the performance of a Dogs portfolio over the last seven years to an annualized return of 7.3 percent. The five lowest-priced Dogs for 2007, beginning with the cheapest, are Pfizer, G.M., AT&T, G.E. and Verizon.

Many Dow Dogs, now or in any year, have something in common besides longevity and low valuations. They are flawed in some way, which is why they are cheap in the first place.

“These are companies that are in temporary trouble,” said Pat Dorsey, research director at Morningstar. “That is what the strategy is supposed to highlight. Sometimes they bounce back after a rough patch, sometimes management gains some I.Q. points, and sometimes it gets booted out.” (A high yield can signal trouble because it sometimes results from a decline in the share price rather than an increase in the dividend.)

Mr. Huguet focused on the third possibility. Many of the companies that attain Dog status have been taken down the wrong path, he said. Share prices sink, forcing changes at the helm. The new broom begins sweeping around the time that the stocks would be added to a Dogs portfolio.

“A lot of the time when Dogs of the Dow that have been downtrodden suddenly come alive, it’s because you have new management in there,” he said. “Earnings turn around, and because the stock is depressed, it can have a huge effect on the price.”

Mr. Huguet prefers to own fast growers rather than potential turnaround plays, so he is not a fan of the Dogs strategy. He does own a couple from this year’s crop, though: Citigroup and J. P. Morgan.

Walter McCormick, lead manager of the Evergreen Fundamental Large Cap fund, also likes the two banks, along with the drug maker Pfizer and the food and tobacco producer Altria.

THIS year may be an especially good one for the Dogs, Mr. McCormick said. After the strong run turned in by many species of Dow stocks over the last few years, returns for the Dow industrial index may diminish, encouraging investors to put a premium on stocks with high dividend yields, he explained. “You’ll want the wind at your back,” he said. “If we have a year when returns are in the high single digits, you’re halfway there with high-yielding stocks.”

Mr. Dorsey, at Morningstar, has mixed feelings about the Dogs. He, too, likes Citigroup, J. P. Morgan and Altria, calling them “reasonably cheap.” On the other hand, he considers G.M. and AT&T “ridiculously overvalued.”

He is shunning Merck, which is fending off lawsuits over its painkiller Vioxx, and has had good results in court, but not where it counts, he said. “Merck has a terrible pipeline” of new drugs, he said. “That’s what makes drug companies go.”

All in all, Mr. Dorsey finds the 2007 Dogs to be “not a very inspiring group.” Even so, he approves of the strategy because it may help to teach old investors a new trick.

“You’re buying solid companies when they’re down on their luck,” he said. “That’s better than buying whatever was hot last year, as many investors do.”
123 2007-01-06 White Magic is an entity in flux. It began in 2004 as a trio, led by the singer and keyboardist Mira Billotte. Then it became a duo, with Ms. Billotte and the guitarist Doug Shaw. For now it’s a shambly, spooked quartet, not quite folk and not quite rock, and as such it played with the bassist Brad Truax and the drummer Jim White on Thursday night at the Mercury Lounge.

Ms. Billotte is the focal point, and her voice was affect-free and handsome: restrained despite a big range, and forthright enough in long tones. She hasn’t had a lot of time in the sunlight, and her performance was carefully unstagy, in a kind of indeterminate zone. One step further, and she could be interestingly antisocial; one step back, and she’d be boring.

White Magic owes quite a lot to Cat Power, alias the singer-songwriter Chan Marshall, who has been very effective with very little. And so a White Magic song is built on hardly anything: an unsyncopated vocal pattern, uncertain keyboard technique, shorthand lyrics (“who we are/how we live/all that has to do with innocence/has grown apart”) and very, very few piano notes.

“Childhood Song” has three, at least for a long stretch. “The Light” has two. It’s juvenile and frustrating: Ms. Billotte is in control of her performance and knows how to write a song; she’s holding back, or going childlike on purpose.

But those two songs — from White Magic’s good new record, its first full-length album, “Dat Rosa Mel Apibus” (Drag City) — were the best parts of Thursday’s show. Ms. Billotte made her vocal melodies carry the tunes, and the four musicians leaned into the music, imposing their wills on it. Mr. Shaw played skeletal guitar chords and undernourished, echoey leads; Mr. Truax played minimally and cleanly. And then there was Jim White, the drummer. Let’s talk about Jim White.

Much of the grace in the best not-quite-rock, not-quite-folk music since the mid-1990s — Cat Power, Beth Orton, Smog, Dirty Three, Nina Nastasia, Bonnie Prince Billy — is attributable to Mr. White, who played with them all. On Thursday he tuned in: he watched and listened like a demon. He held his sticks way down at the bottom, raised his arms up high, and let the weight of the stick coming down determine the size and character of the beats. He played simple, unusual patterns in midtempo grooves that were perfect for this music — not too put-together, but giving it the support it needed.
124 2007-01-06 The market reached a 16-year high in December, as millions of investors who had been sitting on the sidelines in 2004 and 2005 jumped back into stocks.

Analysts say the government is determined to keep the economy expanding but is concerned about growing so quickly that the economy might crash before 2008, when Beijing is host to the Olympic Games, viewed as the ultimate coming-out party for China.

Overinvestment in real estate and construction has been among the chief worries for the government. And for much of the last two years there have been frequent warnings and government measures to tame a wild property run.

The Central Bank said that last October, for the first time in five years, the bank savings of Chinese citizens decreased from the month before, presumably as more money went into the stock market. Credit Suisse estimated that more than $30 billion in bank deposits have flowed into mutual funds or direct plays into the stock market over the last six weeks.

Many analysts say now that the bull run will continue in 2007, prompting even more money to flow into the market. One Chinese mutual fund raised $5 billion in a single day recently before closing its doors to new investors, an astonishing achievement here, according to some economists.

Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, which was publicly listed only last October, here in Shanghai and in Hong Kong, has already gained over 70 percent. This week, prices shot up again, before falling sharply Friday.

The run-up means companies in China can once again raise money in the Chinese market rather than relying on the Hong Kong stock market. But huge risks remain in a market that many analysts have long derided as a gambling den crowded with companies with suspect accounting.

Several economists say that more increases are expected in the coming months, to tame the economy and the stock market.

Hong Liang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Goldman Sachs, said that the government had used the reserve ratio as a policy tool to help manage the economy but that it had not been very effective in cooling things down. She did not “expect it to have much impact on the real economy or the financial markets.”

Large amounts of money flow into the country through foreign investments and surplus dollars from trade. China also has a high savings rate. So many people are looking to put that money to work — in real estate, the stock market and even by investing in art and antiques.

“A lot of hot money has entered the market, legally and otherwise,” said Chang Chun, a professor of finance at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai, speaking of the stock market. “In the past few years people were overpessimistic. Right now, they are overoptimistic and they’re bringing a lot of money into the market.”
125 2007-01-06 “There is a very brutal competition between newspapers — with seven or eight big ones just in Beijing — and now a big, new player, the Internet, wants to wipe them all out, to change the landscape,” said Yu Guofu, a lawyer who specializes in intellectual property. “The press is leading a hard life and facing an unpleasant future, but it has decided it is better to protect its rights than just sit and wait to die.”

According to one recent study, newspaper readership in China has declined sharply in the last three years, with the number of people who say they read a newspaper at least once a week falling to 22 percent last year from 26 percent in 2003.

A major presumed cause for the decline is that big Internet content providers, or portals, have become one-stop sources for all manner of information, including news, entertainment and blogs.

Until recently, the general practice for most portals was to lift news and other information directly from other sources, sometimes crediting the original source and sometimes not, but rarely paying for the information.

The Beijing News lawsuit was filed a little more than a year after a meeting of major newspaper publishers in Nanjing at which strategies were discussed to shore up the industry’s base and combat the leeching of content and readers by Internet companies.

“In terms of the law, things are quite clear, that Tom’s use of Beijing News’s work without authorization clearly violates Beijing News’s copyrights,” said Yu Guoming, dean of the school of journalism at Renmin University in Beijing. “There are lots and lots of cases very similar to this one, but with this lawsuit, the traditional media is sending a very clear signal to the electronic media that their free lunch is over.”

A spokesman for Tom.com, Tu Jianglu, denied any violations. “As a big company we respect copyright and property rights,” he said. “I can only say that there are other facts that make this more complicated.”

The Beijing News declined to comment on the lawsuit.

Until recently, China’s laws have generally been anything but clear on intellectual property, and have made it difficult to win a suit over an alleged infringement. Such an environment may have served China’s needs earlier in its industrial takeoff, when its industries were straining to catch up with the West.

The battle in the news media reflects part of a shift in the intellectual property landscape as China’s growing place in world trade has brought strong new pressures to rein in wholesale piracy. Many of the country’s largest Internet companies, for example, are listed on foreign stock exchanges, making them liable for lawsuits filed abroad.

Zhang Xin, a spokesman for Sohu.com, a leading portal, said, “We’ve signed agreements with over 1,000 traditional news organizations in China, which means that if we use their articles or reports, we definitely have reached prior agreement with them.”

An awareness also seems to be taking hold here that Chinese companies must build strong brands of their own to succeed and that they cannot do so in an environment where copying goes unpunished.

“To enhance the country’s development we are trying to encourage innovation,” said Xu Chao, vice director of the National Copyright Bureau, a government agency. “We are placing more emphasis on intellectual property, and have made improvements in the law. It used to be possible for traditional media or Internet media to simply copy each other’s work, but now this has been forbidden.”
126 2007-01-06 Mr. Ian had also been trying, like many others, to persuade Ron Taft, a lawyer who manages the rights for “Grease,” to make the audition process into a reality show.

“Right after ‘American Idol,’ I get calls from everyone saying, ‘Let’s do an “American Idol” to cast “Grease.” ’ Every time I just say no,” Mr. Taft said.

Last spring Mr. Taft and Mr. Jacobs finally agreed to the idea. BBC Worldwide and NBC went forward with the television show, and the Nederlander organization and Mr. Ian moved up the Broadway production to the summer of 2007. The current plan is for “Grease” to open, with its already famous stars, in August at the Brooks Atkinson theater.

Unlike “Idol,” “You’re the One” is not supposed to be exclusively an amateur night. The rules of “Idol” require that contestants not have any current contracts or talent representation; “You’re the One,” on the other hand, is simply an open casting call, for novices as well as active Broadway performers. A prospective Danny in the first episode, for example, has several national tours under his belt.

But that is part of the show’s tricky balancing act. Reality television producers and viewers still love the nobody from nowhere who wins it all; the first episode puts heavy (and at times, teary) emphasis on the contestants’ personal stories. But the winners also have to hold up a $10 million musical eight times a week for at least a year, a demanding feat for a total greenhorn.

“We absolutely would love for a carpenter from Idaho to be Danny,” said Al Edgington, the executive producer of the television show. “But the reality is, they have to be able to perform. If the carpenter from Idaho does end up being Danny, Kathleen may be in trouble.”

If “You’re the One” has any of the success that “Maria” has, there will be a lot of happy producers, in both theater and TV land. But the question will then become: what next?

Though it may not be in every avid theater fan’s Top 10 list, “Grease” fits the project in ways few other musicals do. The lead characters are young, and there is flexibility in the race of the actors portraying them. The soundtrack is rock ’n’ roll, and the characters drive fast cars and look sexy in leather jackets. Most important, “Grease” was made into a movie that has become part of the popular culture, featuring two stars who made it big (for a while, at least).

Executives involved with the television show said there were discussions about what to do next, but no one was quick with a suggestion.

“I don’t know what the obvious one is,” Mr. Edgington said. “Maybe there’s a way of recasting ‘Grease’ every year.”

There is always “The Sound of Music,” which also has a movie going for it. In Britain Mr. Lloyd Webber is working on another television show that will cast the leads of a revival of “Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.” (There is also going to be a show, from Simon Cowell’s production company, that will cast Danny and Sandy in a London production of “Grease.” David Ian will be a judge on that show as well.)

Mr. Plestis said that there had been talks with Mr. Lloyd Webber but that, for now, NBC was focusing on making “Grease” work.
127 2007-01-06 The Pediatrix Medical Group said it was being investigated by the United States attorney's office in Miami over grants of stock options. Pediatrix, a large provider of care for premature babies, said it would cooperate with the investigation and w...
128 2007-01-07 Among the host of GPS navigational devices that Garmin just announced at CES is one specialized for hunting dogs....
129 2007-01-07 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
130 2007-01-07 In past years, Bill Moseley had to communicate the old-fashioned way with his distance-learning class: text-based chat over the Internet. This year, his 19 graduate students convene on sandy Malibu Island, sometimes in a treehouse, sometimes in a coffee shop. Working in group projects from home bases in Arizona or Ohio, students in his education technology class create multimedia presentations. For an assignment inspired by Daniel Pink's book on steps to excellence, "A Whole New Mind," a wraparound wall (left) immerses viewers in images of the students' avatars.
131 2007-01-07 Mr. Abbas tried unsuccessfully to ban the Executive Force once last year, finally agreeing with Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniya to integrate it into the Palestinian Authority.

But Hamas and Interior Minister Said Siam have kept effective control of the force, which is dominant in Gaza, arguing that the Fatah-dominated security services were lax, corrupt, badly trained and failed to keep order in the territory.

The Hamas force currently consists of more than 5,000 well-armed and well-trained fighters.

Mr. Abbas is the commander-in-chief of all armed men in the Palestinian Authority, but where the authority of the Prime Minister and Interior Minister fit into the equation has been a confusion ever since the job of prime minister was invented as a way of reducing the power of the late Yasir Arafat.

Mr. Abbas was the first prime minister and complained, when he quit after four months, that Mr. Arafat would not relinquish control over the security services. That struggle over the security forces is more complicated now because both the prime minister and interior minister are from Hamas.

Hamas is also making efforts to expand the force to the occupied West Bank, where it is much weaker, given the regular presence of Israeli troops.

The Bush administration is asking Congress for $86 million to improve the equipment and training of Mr. Abbas’s Presidential Guard and to expand the group, which has 3,700 members. American officials describe the effort as a way to balance Hamas and deter it, but say they are not trying to finance a civil war.

Mr. Abbas, in principle, controls the 45,000 security forces on the Palestinian Authority payroll, but it is unclear how many of them come to work, let alone obey his commands.

Separately, the Dagmoush clan in Gaza kidnapped several Hamas members Saturday. The clan, which is believed by Gazans close to Hamas to have captured an Agence France-Press photographer this week, is said to be insisting that it will not release the man, Jaime Razuri of Peru, until Hamas hands over fighters who the Dagmoush say were responsible for killing clan members.

Late Saturday, three members of a pro-Hamas family, the Diri, were killed by gunmen from the Dagmoush clan and five were wounded, witnesses and family members said.

Two Hamas officials were also seized in the West Bank, including the deputy mayor of Nablus, Mehdi Hambali. In Ramallah, masked gunmen abducted an Interior Ministry official, Ihad Suleiman Ghidhan. He was found alive an hour later with three bullets fired into his legs.

Fatah gunmen from the Aksa Martyrs Brigades forced a strike in the West Bank city of Hebron, preventing stores from opening to protest Hamas’s attacks in Gaza.
132 2007-01-07 Mary Spink, executive director of the Lower East Side People’s Mutual Housing Association, a group that has renovated or built several dozen rental buildings in lower Manhattan since 1990, is now courting aging landlords in the neighborhood, hoping to use her local roots to persuade them to sell to the association or bequeath buildings to the association in their wills.

Elsewhere in the country, community development groups in cities including Boston, Cleveland and Seattle have begun extending their activities beyond their traditional focus on housing. A recent report by the Urban Institute found that some have moved into activities like helping neighborhood businesses line up financing and working with employers to bring welfare recipients into the labor market.

“The terrain has changed so much,” said Thomas A. Bledsoe, president of the Housing Partnership Network, a Boston-based alliance of regional nonprofit housing organizations that are much larger than the community development organizations. “The affordability problem has gotten much bigger. Rather than being a redevelopment problem exclusively, it has grown into a more widespread affordability gap that affects middle-class communities.”

There are now at least 60 community development corporations and other nonprofits involved with housing development in New York City. The oldest grew out of federal antipoverty programs in the 1960s; later came church-based groups like the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem and neighborhood-based organizations that sprang up initially to address specific local issues.

Many of them flourished in the late 1980s and early 1990s under Mayor Edward I. Koch’s $5 billion, 10-year housing plan, which offered properties taken in tax foreclosure for sale to nonprofits to create low-cost housing. Two national groups, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation and Enterprise Community Partners, have worked closely with many of the local groups, providing capital, technical expertise and training.

Through that system, nonprofits bought city-owned properties for as little as $1 and received city funding as well as support and financing from L.I.S.C.or Enterprise, using the federal low-income-housing tax credit program. That financing included developers’ fees of thousands of dollars per apartment — money that enabled the community development corporations to stay afloat.

“In the early stages of the redevelopment of these communities, the anchor in these communities was the community-based organizations,” said William R. Frey, executive vice president of Enterprise, who started its New York office in 1987. “They were the only entities that did not abandon these neighborhoods. They really were a critical engine behind the rebuilding.”

The Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, in the northwest Bronx, was founded in 1980, at a time when arson and abandonment were eroding neighborhoods in the borough. Tenants in buildings that had been abandoned by their owners needed help managing the buildings. The group now manages, owns or works with 75 buildings in a half-dozen neighborhoods; it also operates a shelter.

The Lower East Side People’s Mutual Housing Association has a $2 million operations budget, an office staff of nine, and 15 superintendents and porters. Ms. Spink, a former heroin addict who says she served three years in state prison in the early 1970s on charges involving drugs and guns, recently received the Andrew Heiskell Community Renaissance Award from Enterprise at its annual fund-raising gala.

Some groups, however, ran into trouble. The Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a South Bronx group, came under investigation by the state attorney general’s office over questions about its management and financial practices. Others lost properties through foreclosure or closed down after turning over their buildings to bigger and better managed nonprofits.

Now, there is widespread agreement that some groups will be unable to continue to develop housing in the future. They will not be able to compete with private developers to cover the rising cost of land; and they will lack the expertise to navigate the increasingly complex world of housing finance.

Those groups in a position to continue developing are being forced to become more entrepreneurial and creative.

Walter Blenman, a former community organizer who runs Beulah Housing Development Fund Company, a group in the Morrisania and Crotona neighborhoods in the South Bronx, said he is going to have to focus on fund-raising. His last two projects were joint ventures with a private developer, under which his group gets a share of the developer’s fee and the developer increases his chances of getting tax credits by allying himself with a nonprofit.

“We had to purchase the actual vacant lot,” Mr. Blenman said, reflecting on the irony that the success of groups like his in spurring neighborhood revival is now working against them. “It was private land. We had never anticipated having that issue. The flip side is we did our job well. People are investing in these communities. But now we suffer the brunt of our success.”

John Reilly, executive director of the Fordham Bedford group, said he had applied for a $20 million loan from the $200 million New York Acquisition Fund, a new city program aimed at enabling nonprofits to compete for land in the private market. The group, which would use the money to buy six buildings it hopes to renovate, must put up equity of its own — a step that some smaller nonprofits would be unable to take.

“I wouldn’t say it’s a crisis — but it’s difficult,” said Mr. Blenman, whose group is relatively small, with a staff of four and an annual operating budget of $350,000 that in the past came mostly from developer’s fees. “There will be some attrition. There’ll probably be some merging along the way. If all you’re doing is developing, it might get to a point where you’re going to have to shut that part of your operation down.”
133 2007-01-07 “He just undressed me,” Meyer said, still remembering the name of the play, 94-I Twin Right, and the defensive scheme they faced, a Cover 2. “He just got after me. I remember it like it was yesterday.”

That scolding, much like Bud Meyer’s mandate for a long run home after a baseball loss, offers a window into the two men most responsible for molding Urban Meyer. Together, they helped forge the values and work ethic that allowed Meyer to lead Florida into Monday night’s national title game against Ohio State.

“They’re very similar,” Meyer said of his father and Bruce. “I think they both are about doing the right thing. There’s a lot of things that are important, but doing it the right way is probably the most important.

“They’re family guys and hard workers who don’t take shortcuts.”

Bud Meyer and Earle Bruce are 75-year-old children of the Depression who have a penchant for colorful language and fist-pounding to accentuate a point.

Bud Meyer, though, was not a football coach; he was a chemical engineer who would take his children’s college textbooks and solve the problems for fun.

Earle Bruce won 154 games in his Hall of Fame career, with his most notable stint coming at Ohio State from 1979 to 1987, when he won or shared four Big Ten titles. Bruce played for and coached under Woody Hayes, another disciplinarian who helped shape an attitude so salty in Bruce that he would paint the opponents’ locker room pink to psych them out.

Gigi Escoe, Meyer’s sister, got to know Bruce over the years.

“Earle strikes me as no-nonsense, straightforward and a disciplinarian who expects a lot out of people,” she said during a recent interview in a restaurant near the University of Cincinnati, where she is a senior associate dean. She then looked at her father seated across the table and said, laughing, “That seems familiar.”

Bud and Gisela Meyer reared their three children — Gigi, Urban and Erika — primarily in the northeast Ohio town of Ashtabula, which lies on Lake Erie and, as he put it, “has gone the way of rust.”

Though Ashtabula is a primarily blue-collar town, Escoe chuckled at portrayals of her brother as a blue-collar kid. She recalled Sundays spent at a nearby yacht club and a comfortable childhood.

Bud Meyer made sure they were not too cozy. He demanded the most from his children; Gigi and Erika skipped grades. Urban, though he thrived academically, was not allowed to skip a grade because it would put him at a disadvantage in sports. Bud Meyer said his and his wife’s simple parenting philosophy derived from his father’s.

“I was expected to produce,” he said sternly.

He made sure his children produced, too. Bud Meyer often doled out punishment in laps or push-ups: breaking curfew usually resulted in some type of productive sweat. Urban was rewarded with a dollar for hitting a home run and 50 cents for knocking in a run, though he lost a quarter for every strikeout.

Those lessons made an impact. Meyer’s wife, Shelley, said he recently punished their 8-year-old son, Nate, by making him run six laps around the house.

Meyer starred as a tailback and a shortstop for St. John’s High School in Ashtabula. He had more potential in baseball, and the Atlanta Braves chose him in the 13th round in the 1982 draft. Right after graduation, he headed to Sarasota, Fla., to play rookie league ball.

“When everyone else was going to the prom, he was getting on Eastern Airlines,” Bud Meyer said with a hint of pride in his voice. “We brought him to the airport, and that was it for the summer.”

Meyer struggled with curveballs and endless bus rides. He tried to quit a few times, even calling home from a telephone booth in tears to tell his father he was leaving. Bud told him that he was not welcome back in the house but to make sure he called his mother.

Meyer was finally done in by tendinitis in his throwing arm and ended his baseball career in Class A two years later with one home run. He signed the home run ball, which now sits on Escoe’s mantle.

“It didn’t hurt him,” Bud Meyer said of his son’s two years in the minors. “It gave him a lot of maturity.”

Meyer ended up attending the University of Cincinnati, as did his father, his paternal grandfather and his sisters, and lettered as a walk-on defensive back. He was also introduced to the two loves of his life: Shelley and coaching football.

Meyer got an internship coaching at St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati, a local powerhouse. He then went to Ohio State, where he was a graduate assistant under Bruce.

“I was in awe of him,” Meyer said.

A tour of the basement of Bruce’s home in Dublin, Ohio, outside Columbus showed that Meyer was not Bruce’s only successful protégé. There are photos of a shaggy-haired Pete Carroll, now the coach at Southern California, and a baby-faced Jim Tressel, now the coach of the Buckeyes, as Ohio State assistants under Bruce. Bruce then pointed to a picture of Meyer wearing a yellow polo shirt and green pants, with a thick mustache from his days at Colorado State.

Bruce also learned from his father, who had 13 boys and was a safety inspector in a steel mill in Pittsburgh.

“He always told me, ‘If you ever come home drunk, your clothes are going to be outside on the sidewalk; you’re gone,’ ” said Bruce, who now works in radio. “I never took the chance. I didn’t want to test him.”

In Bruce, Meyer saw a mentor, a man who worked his players hard on the field and loved them off it. A man who taught Meyer the two credos that guide his Florida program: Life is a lot better if you are good off the field, and discipline is 90 percent anticipation.

Meyer took to the coaching life as a graduate assistant under Bruce and began carving a career path with days that began at 6 a.m. and ended at midnight.

“He was so intense and into the game even then,” Shelley Meyer said. “That’s when I really saw what this whole college coaching thing was going to be about.”

Meyer, 42, has not forgotten his roots. Bruce is a regular visitor at spring practice and has attended some Gators games. Meyer asked Escoe to get their father an empty ring box for his 75th birthday last month; he included a note saying he would fill it with either a Southeastern Conference title ring or a national title ring.

Bruce’s grandson Zach Smith works as a student assistant to Meyer. Smith helps the Florida coaches break down opponents’ tendencies on film, a job like the one Meyer had 20 seasons ago.

“They’re very similar,” Smith said of Meyer and Bruce. “You can see it in their intensity and love for the game. They have such a passion for their players.”

While Bud Meyer and Earle Bruce have much in common, they differ on which team they will be cheering for Monday night. But Bud said that deep down Bruce would be cheering for the Gators.

“I don’t care what Earle says,” he said. “I think he wants Florida to win this game.”

Bruce probably won’t pound his fist too hard if Florida pulls an upset.

“I’m a Buckeye, and I want the Buckeyes to win,” Bruce said. “But I’ll tell you something, I would not feel bad if they lost. I can’t feel bad.”
134 2007-01-07 Or we may not — which, she said, is why investors would be unwise to abandon foreign stocks. Anyone who surveyed the landscape a year ago and reasoned that the strong outperformance overseas had set up the domestic market for a superior run would have been wrong.

“No one can call a top or bottom in any market,” Ms. Ketterer said. “There isn’t any sign of danger on the horizon, at least as far as interest rates are concerned. That takes pressure off companies and improves operating results. There could be another one, two or six good years left.”

Thomas Mengel, manager of the Ivy International Value fund, is hoping for at least one. He sees “a year of decent returns” as long as the environment for economic growth and interest rates stays benign.

Such a backdrop cannot be assured, of course, and with valuations no longer as reasonable as they were, he is seeking the safety of companies that have strong balance sheets and are restructuring operations to be more efficient.

Mr. Mengel is concentrating his search in Europe, which has the benefit of being at the right point of the growth cycle. The economy is expanding faster there than it is in the United States, profit margins are improving, and business confidence is at multiyear highs.

David Herro, chief investment officer for international equities at Harris Associates, based in Chicago, is also focusing on stable, defensive issues. He is a fan of “busted blue chips,” his sobriquet for giant multinationals that have been largely shunned by investors this decade.

“This is a slice of the market which I still think is very attractive,” said Mr. Herro, who manages international funds sold under the Oakmark brand. “Look at valuations and what you’re getting for what you’re paying. These are good quality businesses at the right prices.”

Finding companies in emerging markets, especially in Asia, that fit this description is no small feat after the whopping gains that many achieved last year. Some fund managers are using a buy-’em-where-they-ain’t strategy, directing investments to stocks, sectors and countries that have remained comparatively untouched by the rally.

Mark Headley, president of Matthews International Capital Management in San Francisco, a fund marketer specializing in Asia, has been using that approach. “China and India have been deluged with hype,” he said. “It’s time to be very cautious and trim back some of the winners. Not everything is in a bubble, but you’re definitely paying a premium price” in those two markets.

Mr. Headley singled out Chinese banks, several of which have been privatized in the last couple of years through high-profile share listings. “I’d be very cautious,” he said. He pointed to histories of bad loans at major Chinese banks, as well as to price-to-earnings multiples that are double those of institutions in the United States and Europe.

He noted that investors who align their portfolios with benchmark indexes might have no choice but to own some of these stocks, and he expressed sympathy. “The more they go up, the more they have to own them” to maintain index weightings, he said. “We’re going to see some very painful pullbacks.”

Mr. Headley expects to stay pain-free by doing business in countries that have been largely ignored, like Malaysia and Thailand.

The Malaysian market “kind of missed the last five years,” he said, alluding to the decision by many investors, including himself, to avoid the market after the government introduced capital controls in response to the 1990s financial crisis.

Thailand has just imposed restrictions to cope with speculative flows into its currency, the baht. Investors took the news badly, sending stocks down about 15 percent in a day. Mr. Headley, however, is not deterred. “Thailand is the cheapest market in Asia, and we’re pretty fully invested there,” he said. One of his favorite holdings is Advanced Info Service, a mobile phone service provider with a P/E ratio in the low teens and a dividend yield above 7.5 percent.

Among his other diverse investments are S1, a South Korean security company; the Joint Corporation, a Japanese condominium developer, and Bank Rakyat Indonesia, a microfinance bank providing very small loans through thousands of village offices. Its stock is “expensive right now,” he conceded, “but the story is really unique and different.”

Mr. Herro prefers megafinance, as confirmed by his positions in Credit Suisse and UBS, which he said he likes for their private banking and asset management businesses. His other large holdings include the drug makers Glaxo SmithKline and Novartis and the British food and drink companies Diageo and Cadbury Schweppes.

He also has a stake in DaimlerChrysler, crediting it with its reorganization efforts. The stock is undervalued, he said, as investors fixate on Chrysler’s woes and ignore its strength in commercial vehicles.

In Asia, Mr. Herro has stakes in SK Telecom in South Korea and two Japanese companies, Daiwa Securities and the semiconductor maker Rohm.

“If you look at these companies, one thing they’ve got in common is low valuations and decent profitability,” he said, noting DaimlerChrysler as the exception.

Ms. Ketterer did not mention the carmaker, but she likes German stocks because, “for the first time in history they are embarking on major restructuring,” she said.

She declared herself “very enthusiastic” about Siemens, the German conglomerate. It “has been a perpetual laggard, but that’s what’s so interesting,” she said. “There is a commitment to improving the business.”

Ms. Ketterer also likes France Télécom, which, she said, has undergone a transformation. Like many European phone companies, she added, it paid too much for licenses to provide third-generation services and went deeply into debt.

The company “behaves more like a utility now,” she said. “Cash-flow generation is fantastic,” she added, “more than enough for shareholders and to pay for expansion.”

MR. MENGEL, the Ivy fund manager, likes companies that have always behaved like utilities, including E.ON and RWE in Germany and Suez of France. Other favorites include Banca Intesa in Italy and ORIX financial services in Japan.

After the strong performance of international stocks, he says he believes in safety first, but not safety only. Many companies in which he has invested are based in the developed world, but they generate a significant portion of their sales in emerging-market economies.

Some examples are the Swiss cement maker Holcim, which does extensive business in Latin America and Eastern Europe, the Swiss watchmaker Swatch and the French luxury-goods conglomerate LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton.

“These companies are showing decent growth in mature countries,” Mr. Mengel said. “But because they have more and more sales in emerging markets, they’re becoming pretty interesting. We’re capturing part of the growth in emerging markets in a conservative way.”
135 2007-01-07 More recently, booming world demand for commodities — an example being China’s explosive growth producing a bonanza for Chile, which supplies copper — and low United States interest rates have added to the appeal of emerging-market debt.

Traditionally, said Brad Durham, a managing director at Emerging Portfolio Fund Research, which specializes in investment flows, “you’re supposed to sell emerging markets when the Fed starts raising rates,” which it did in mid-2004. But these markets “soldiered through,” he said, “primarily due to the fact that they’ve become a lot less vulnerable to the growth cycle.”

Michael J. Conelius, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets Bond fund in Baltimore, concurred. “Emerging countries have come a long way,” he said. “The main things, in terms of fiscal discipline and paying down debt, are all still in place, so the average credit quality is getting better.”

Ratings upgrades outnumbered downgrades in 2006 by about 10 to 1 for the third consecutive year, Mr. Conelius added. The upgrades reflect the widely shared view that emerging markets are in their best fiscal shape since before this asset class got off the ground in the mid-1980s.

“A lot of governments and policy makers are acting much more responsibly,” Mr. Durham said.

As a result, the broad market for emerging-market debt has developed to the point that a crisis in Thailand last month — the government introduced, then eased, controls on capital to prevent speculative inflows from pushing the baht too high — caused scarcely a ripple. Neither did a disputed election in Mexico or a restructuring by Belize, in the only default of the year.

Investors poured a record $6.2 billion into emerging-market debt last year, compared with $5.7 billion in 2005, $1.9 billion in 2004, $3.1 billion in 2003 and $672 million in 2002, according to Mr. Durham’s firm. From 1995 through 2001, they reduced such holdings.

Prices are now high enough that many specialists have become cautious, particularly about debt denominated in dollars. Average yields on the J. P. Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus (EMBI+) were driven down at year-end to 1.66 percentage points above those of United States Treasury securities, with Brazil’s risk premium slipping just before Christmas to less than two points for the first time on record.

“The downside from an investor’s standpoint is that the bonds are more and more expensive,” Mr. Conelius said. “So the first thing I would say to a potential investor is that while the countries are in better shape, don’t expect the strong returns that you’ve had or you’ve seen in the past several years because that’s just not sustainable. They’re safer credits and they’re going to perform more like safer credits, so just reset your expectations in terms of return.”

Mr. Venezia of Eaton Vance, though acknowledging that prices could rise for another year or so, put it this way: “There’s an asymmetry of risk here. You can make a little but you can lose a lot.” Emerging markets are so flush that governments have had the wherewithal to buy back external bonds and to float new loans at home.

“They’re able to shift their borrowing to the domestic market and their own currency,” said Curtis Mewbourne, co-head of emerging market business at Pimco, the bond specialist based in Newport Beach, Calif.

Indeed, local market debt — as opposed to sovereign debt — is the fastest-growing part of the business and includes issues of corporations in emerging markets. “It’s probably overtaken dollar debt as the preferred form of issuance of emerging-market countries,” Mr. Venezia said.

The appeal is clear. “You’re getting higher interest rates in many of these countries, and you’re getting diversification away from the U.S. dollar,” which has been weak lately, Mr. Mewbourne said. This is quite a change for securities that only a decade ago could scarcely be marketed.

In fact, the payoff in many cases is high enough to rival that of the stock market.

“In some ways this is an equity substitute almost, a kind of safe way to move some money offshore and get a higher return,” Mr. Mewbourne said. Most American investors, he contended, are overconcentrated in their own country’s securities and could benefit from more foreign exposure.

Experts say the only practical way for ordinary or even well-heeled individuals to gain access to the market for emerging debt, which can involve complex administrative and tax issues, is through mutual funds. But there is a wide variety of fund options. Pimco, for example offers a somewhat risky local-market fund that returned about 12 percent last year, a traditional dollar-denominated sovereign fund that returned about 10 percent and a low-risk diversified global income fund that returned about 8 percent. The income fund contains mainly corporate bonds, with only a portion from emerging markets.

This points to the need for prospective investors to choose judiciously. “You can’t just pick out a mutual fund that has the words ‘emerging market fixed income’ in it,” Mr. Venezia cautioned. “You have to really study them” to see what the portfolios include.

And some emerging-market securities remain highly speculative. “The average fund has large weightings in some pretty scary markets,” Mr. Durham said: for example, close to 8 percent in Argentina, which had a return of 51 percent last year, triple that of any other component of the EMBI+, but had a huge default in 2001.

AND at least two managers — T. Rowe Price and Franklin Templeton — are making a sizable bet on, of all places, Iraq.

“This is a huge long-term opportunity,” Mr. Conelius said, acknowledging that his is a decidedly contrarian view. “There is such untapped economic potential and wealth in that country and things could hardly get worse.” Because of previous default, debt is low and can be serviced each year with just two days of oil exports, Mr. Conelius figures. The market premium for Iraq’s debt is about 5.25 percentage points above that of United States Treasuries, making it a seemingly better credit than the debt of Ecuador, which has said it wants to restructure.

But that is still far too risky for Mr. Durham. He noted that Iraq’s debt accounted for about one-half of 1 percent of average emerging-market bond fund portfolios, and called even that “a massive overweight.”
136 2007-01-07 The advent of indexes that try to approximate hedge fund performance on the cheap sounds like a positive development all around. It could, for example, exert downward pressure on steep hedge fund fees, which can be 2 percent of assets off the top and 20 percent of profits.

But the rise of investment vehicles based on hedge fund indexes suggests that, soon enough, average investors may get a piece of the action. If there are hedge fund indexes, after all, can mutual funds be far behind?

Well, no. As a matter of fact, several mutual funds already offer people like you and me access to something like a poor-man’s hedge fund. These funds use puts, calls and short-selling, among other hedge-fund-type strategies, and in the eyes of some advisers offer useful diversification for investors (not to mention hefty fees for the fund managers).

The problem with all of this is that hedge funds, in the aggregate, are a lousy investment. With so much money chasing so few ideas, not to mention the handicap of such high expenses, how could they be otherwise?

Since 1993, the Credit Suisse/Tremont Hedge Fund Index has generated returns roughly on a par with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, an investment available to widows, orphans and just about everybody else through index funds offered at rock-bottom prices by Vanguard and some of its competitors.

Thanks to the wide range of tactics and techniques they use, hedge funds may deliver somewhat less volatility, but on the other hand they are tax-inefficient because of all their trading. So on an after-tax basis, an investor would have probably done worse in the average hedge fund than in the S.& P. 500.

My bet is that this trend will continue. Unless you’re somehow in the know, fabulously wealthy, have some special ability to identify great hedge funds and gain the privilege of investing in them — hedge funds in the years ahead are likely to be a sucker’s game.

That’s why I expect that, before too long, they’ll find some way to let the suckers in. (In the foreseeable future these will still be rich ones, assuming that the proposed new S.E.C. rule on investable assets takes effect.)

Calling something a hedge fund doesn’t change the fact that in the long run — the only sensible period for which investors should accept much risk — it’s very hard for anyone to beat the financial markets consistently, especially after taxes and expenses. It’s probably just as hard to identify others who can consistently beat the markets.

If you’re an average investor, consider yourself lucky to be shut out of hedge funds. If you’re rich, why bother? There are safer ways to buy status. But if you’re smart, what you want to do with a hedge fund is to start one, because that’s the most reliable way to profit from them.
137 2007-01-07 Favorite restaurants include Via Quadronno and Sant Ambroeus on the Upper East Side, Pastis and Soho House in the meatpacking district, Cafe Cluny and a downtown branch of Sant Ambroeus in the West Village, and Balthazar in SoHo.

Unlike the “power breakfast,” that well-documented institution that plays out among corporate executives at the Regency and Four Seasons hotels, members of the late-morning breakfast tribe, who gather from 9 to 11, don’t have to put in an early appearance at an office.

But don’t be fooled by the casual vibe and the late hour. These breakfast clubbers are not slackers. The scene at the European-style bistros and ristorantes is all about business and social networking, just as much as it is at lunch at a restaurant like Michael’s (popular with the publishing crowd), or at dinner at Phillipe (hip-hop moguls, fashion designers).

Habitués say table-hopping and small talk are easier in the morning, in a sunny corner of a clubby cafe. “I talk to people at breakfast that I might never otherwise talk to,” said Steven Shailor, an interior designer seated at the communal table at Cafe Cluny on a Tuesday last month at 11 a.m. “It’s like an unspoken camaraderie. It’s about making the choice of not having to be in an office by 9 a.m. and you’re going to meet other like-minded people — idea people.”

Mr. Shailor wore blue corduroys and a sweatshirt covered in dog hair from his yellow Lab, Buck, who was tied to a bench out front on West 4th Street. Rotating his breakfast routine between Sant Ambroeus downtown, Pastis and Cafe Cluny, he said he has struck up conversations over cappuccino with Mario Batali, Malcolm Gladwell and Jan Hashey, a power real estate agent.

An ideal breakfast-club hangout includes free newspapers, including a few French and Italian publications, and some authentic well-dressed Europeans to read them. Cappuccinos, delivered silently by waiters in ties, should cost upward of $4, with the bill for a full breakfast including tip costing $20 to $25, enough to discourage out-and-out idlers.

On a typical morning at the downtown Sant Ambroeus, you may spot Calvin Klein reading the newspaper, Isaac Mizrahi visiting with friends or Lapo Elkann, a freckled Fiat heir, conversing in Italian with the waiters about soccer matches.

This fall, during the three and a half months that the producer Brian Grazer was in New York filming “American Gangster,” he held meetings in jeans and sneakers most mornings at Sant Ambroeus, or at the Mercer Hotel in SoHo.

“I was at Sant Ambroeus at my usual table one morning and I noticed seven or eight of these super fashionable Italian kids sitting there,” Mr. Grazer said. “I was so curious that I blindly went over and introduced myself. We ended up talking for an hour.”

One of the young men was Mr. Elkann, 28, who is known for the embroidered Italian flags on his custom shirt cuffs. (He inherited his grandfather Gianni Agnelli’s fashion sense, as well as his Caraceni suits.) “He was so cool that I decided to do a Fiat tie-in for the sequel to ‘The Da Vinci Code,’ ” Mr. Grazer said. “I’m flying to Italy to meet with him about it.”

Olaf Breuning, a Swiss-born artist who shows at Metro Pictures, was drawing in a dog-eared sketchbook at Balthazar one morning last month. “People know I’m here and if they need to find me they stop by,” he said. “It’s like my office.”

Mr. Breuning, who lives and works in an apartment in Battery Park City, arrives at Balthazar by 8:30 four mornings a week. If all goes well, the maître d’hôtel seats him at his favorite round red leather banquette in the back corner, where Mr. Breuning orders breakfast and sketches, and then by 9:30 receives friends, gallerists and curators.

“I work at home and it’s very nice to get out of the house,” Mr. Breuning said. “I like the warm yellow light. And it’s so big and airy here.”

Balthazar, the nine-year-old French brasserie that seems lifted from belle epoque Paris, may be the most clubby of all Manhattan breakfast spots for movers in the fashion, dot-com and design worlds. At 10 a.m. on a Thursday before the holidays, Sarah Brown, the beauty director of Vogue, who schedules meetings there three mornings a week, was having scrambled eggs. She was with Peter Lichtenthal, an executive at MAC cosmetics, when she spotted another regular, Vanessa Weiner von Bismarck, the fashion publicist. Ms. Brown waved. “I’m forever grateful to Vanessa,” Ms. Brown said. “That morning when Vincent Longo stood me up, she came over and kept me company so I wouldn’t have to sit there and drink my cappuccino alone.”

Ms. Brown recalled another morning when she was commiserating with a friend who had been fired from a job over a bowl of latte: “And then Jude Law came over and sat next to us. It cheered us both up.”

By a window sat Rufus Griscom, the chief executive of Nerve.com, and in the “don’t talk to me zone” by the bar sat Nick Denton, the founder of Gawker Media, who was hiding behind a newspaper. Irene Chung, a design director at Marc Jacobs, was seated with her friend Mandie Erickson, a fashion publicist. “The fashion people are very obvious,” Ms. Chung said, scanning the room. “Always with the designer ‘It’ bag, the boot of the season, their piece of Marc Jacobs whatever.”

Balthazar, a late-night celebrity hangout with an unlisted phone number during its first years, has weathered the inevitable transition to a tourist restaurant at night and weekends, popular with suburbanites traipsing around SoHo.

But breakfast remains a relative secret, the restaurant unhurried and filled with people who live or work in the neighborhood, many of them Internet publishers. Keith McNally, the owner of Balthazar and its younger cousin, Pastis, said the breakfast crowds at both bistros have doubled in the last three years. “Breakfast has become popular because, in the right circumstance, it can be a wonderful refuge,” he said.

Lockhart Steele, the managing editor of Gawker Media, is a regular, who on a different morning was in his usual banquette with Ben Leventhal, the editor of Eater, a food blog that Mr. Steele is an investor in. “We lead strangely deconstructed lives,” Mr. Steele said. “Ben works at home most of the time. My full-time job is at the Gawker offices. It would be very easy for us to go weeks without getting together.”

Taking inventory of the room, with its big glass windows on Spring Street, he said, “There’s a little Internet hive around here so we’ll see people from Nerve.com or Media Bistro or Daily Candy.”

“Who’s that over there making out?” he asked, peering at a couple across the room. “Definitely not a good place for an affair.”

It goes without saying that the breakfast crowd wouldn’t be caught dead in Balthazar at dinner.

“In the morning you can walk in and actually get a table,” Mr. Steele said, “whereas almost any other time of day you’re fighting a war here to get in.”

Eventually the caffeine takes effect, and the late-morning breakfast clubbers must move on to start the day. They head to the home office, or the film set, or the design studio.

“Once 11:30 hits, the energy shifts in the city,” Ms. Erickson said.
138 2007-01-07 Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about art insurance misstated the location of the New England Brokerage Corporation that employs Brian Frasca, an insurance broker who gave examples of coverage for artwork. It is in Greenwich, Conn. — not Providence, R.I., where a different company of the same name is located.
139 2007-01-07 It’s time to put the record Wall Street bonuses you’ve heard about in perspective. Yes, a few investment stars did reap tens of millions, topped by Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman of Goldman Sachs, who received $53.4 million.

But these people were the exception. The fact is, the average 2006 bonus in the New York securities industry was about $137,000, an increase of 15 percent from the year before.

What? Does that still seem like a lot to you? Maybe you were one of those unfortunate workers whose bonus was four or even just three or two figures.

Or (and you don’t need to identify yourselves) maybe your bonus was just one figure: zero, an increase of zero percent over 2005.

If so, look at it this way: The data below are courtesy of the New York State comptroller’s office, which takes an intense interest in bonuses at tax time. The tax bite from a six-figure bonus is likely to be substantial, whereas the tax you have to pay on a nonexistent bonus is ... zero.
140 2007-01-07 At his trial in October, he explained to the judge that he was about to turn 63 and had lost his job making deliveries for a drug wholesaler. He said that with only minimum-wage jobs available, he preferred to draw a three-year sentence, which would get him to age 66, when, he said, he could live off of Social Security. And that is what he got.

Mr. Bowers has solved his income problem and the question of health care in a single act. He’s a little like O. Henry’s character, Soapy the New York hobo, in “The Cop and the Anthem,” who hopes to winter over at Rikers Island: “Three months of assured board and bed and congenial company, safe from Boreas and bluecoats, seemed to Soapy the essence of things desirable.” The patented O. Henry twist, of course, was that Soapy had a great deal of trouble getting arrested. Mr. Bowers did not.

His lawyer, Jeremy W. Dodgion, said his client is neither unbalanced nor dim. “He’s as charming as can be,” he said. “He’s easy-going, very articulate — he’s no dummy, by any means.”

He said Mr. Bowers was addressing an all-too-common problem.

“At his age, it was harder and harder to find a job with benefits,” Mr. Dodgion said, and “he finally said, to hell with it.” And while most people would find prison a soul-crushing experience, Mr. Bowers had done time in the 1970s on a robbery conviction, Mr. Dodgion said, and so he knew he could survive.

The prosecutor, Dan Cable, summed up for The A.P.: “It’s not the financial plan I would choose,” he said, “but it’s a financial plan.”

Now if you are a regular reader of this column (Hi, Mom!), you know that I’m all about unconventional plans for investors and outside-the-box thinking. But here’s a little inside-the-can thinking, and it’s got oomph. In fact, I’d call it incarcer-iffic.

That beloved financial adviser, David St. Hubbins, mused in the documentary “This Is Spinal Tap” that “It’s such a fine line between clever and stupid.” I’m sure you know where I stand by now on Mr. Bowers.

Mr. Dodgion, the defense lawyer, told me that he has heard from prospective clients who seem to think that Mr. Bowers had a pretty good idea, and “who wanted me to do the same thing for them.

“I said: ‘Are you kidding?’ Is this going to be a trend?”

Maybe so, I boldly predict. Many investors found in 2000 that we’re just one market “correction” away from losing our nest eggs, and corporate scandals emptied out a lot of stock ownership plans. Employers, meanwhile, seem determined to whittle away at employee pensions and health plans. The pen could be the only safety net left.

SEEN in this light, a stay in prison could even make sense to people who still have assets sunk in 401(k)s. Think of it as the ultimate “buy and hold” strategy. Your mutual funds grow, and you don’t have to worry about the substantial penalties for early withdrawal. The funds are released when you are.

While the rest of us fret about the future, Mr. Bowers will be in Hocking, a minimum-security prison that serves as a kind of haven for older criminals; its Web site states, “We provide quality programming for an aging offender population.” Delete the word “offender” and it sounds like a retirement village. The activities include aerobics, basket weaving and training companion animals. It’s less like Oz, more like Kansas. It’s just the kind of prison, in fact, that Tom Noe, Mr. Bowers’s fellow Ohioan, could be staying at before long if his appeals don’t work out.

Mr. Noe, you may recall, is the formerly well-connected coin dealer now serving federal time for illegal fund-raising for the Republican Party. He’s been sentenced to 18 years in prison on state charges that he stole millions of dollars from an unusual $50 million investment fund (based on rare coins) that he ran for the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, and he must repay Ohio $13.7 million.

Imagine the conversations they could have after aerobics class.

And you know what that means, right? Once again, Jeff Skilling and Andrew Fastow of Enron are the smartest guys in the room. By going to prison, they are, again, simply out ahead of the pack.
141 2007-01-07 IN a place where partisanship and party affiliation routinely determine things as basic as where lawmakers sit in State House chambers, where they park their cars or even whether their aides have to walk an extra flight of stairs to get to their offices, State Senator William L. Gormley has often defied convention — and has relished doing so.

Ostensibly a Republican, Mr. Gormley, who is from Atlantic County, has sided with the Democrats so often that he has joked that his party’s leadership has occasionally placed him on a sort of probation. Whether it was supporting an assault weapons ban in the early 1990s or his crucial vote last year for Gov. Jon S. Corzine’s budget, which ended a seven-day government shutdown, Mr. Gormley has often bucked the party line.

“I have enjoyed working with both sides,” Mr. Gormley said at a State House news conference. “If I hadn’t worked with both sides, then the dreams of Atlantic City wouldn’t have been fulfilled.”

But now one of the last true swing voters in the State House is about to leave. Mr. Gormley announced last week that he would not seek re-election in November — a decision that could have far-reaching implications for the Republicans’ effort to regain control of the Senate and on the voting dynamic of the Legislature.

Democrats, who hold a 22-to-18 edge in the Senate, have expressed anxiety about their tenuous hold there. But the departure of Mr. Gormley, a 30-year veteran of South Jersey politics, may provide them a bit more of a window to widen their advantage.
142 2007-01-07 I applaud your comments about the injustice done to Paul Robeson by the nominating panel for the New Jersey Hall of Fame. But I suggest that an additional injustice was perpetrated by your characterization of Frank Sinatra as “a celebrity remembered for his general orneriness as much as for any contributions to the Garden State.”

Let me note that Mr. Sinatra would have been among the first to support your position on Mr. Robeson. But unless one has been living in a cave for the past six decades, it must be acknowledged that Frank Sinatra left us with an extraordinarily rich legacy of music, as well as a vivid sense of his fierce advocacy for social equity and justice.

These characteristics of the Kid from Hoboken shed a positive light on New Jersey and contributed substantially to the state’s image. To relegate his memory to “orneriness” is to deny reality.

Sheldon Roskin

 Scotch Plains

The writer was Frank Sinatra’s public relations representative during the 1970s and ’80s.

Let Adopted Children Find Their Sense of Self

I strongly disagree with the comment by Thomas J. Snyder, secretary of the family law section of the New Jersey State Bar Association, that “if this bill is enacted, it will be retroactively applied to people who have previously given up their children with the expectation and promises of privacy.”
143 2007-01-07 The “Living In” article last Sunday, on the Stuyvesant Square neighborhood, referred incorrectly to the Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day High School. It is public, not private. The article also misstated the school’s hours. It is open 9...
144 2007-01-07 The Lyman Allyn Art Museum in New London is not known for displaying feisty contemporary art, which is what makes “femme brut(e), its big fall show of artworks by women, so surprising. Given that this sort of thing is so rarely on display at the museum, it was even more surprising to discover that some of the art comes from the museum’s own collection. This is a terrific show, perhaps one of the best to be staged at the museum in some time.

Nancy Stula, the curator, has assembled an engaging selection of early, confrontational feminist work with more recent, varied offerings by female artists. The contrasts of tone and subject matter between the two groups, spilling across two levels of the building, help illustrate just how far female artists have come.

The title of the exhibition suggests the idea of women who are raw, tough or brutal. But it is more of a metaphor than anything else, characterizing artists who — one way or another — have sought to challenge the historically marginalized position of women. “With the youngest of the artists in this exhibition born in 1959,” Sherry Buckberrough, an art historian, writes in the show’s catalog, “all came of age while the status of women in the art world was still strongly contested.”

The early years of feminism saw female artists embrace numerous strategies to combat art world sexism and discrimination. One popular approach was to reclaim women’s creative histories by adopting materials and art-making practices once commonly, and pejoratively, associated with femininity — needlework, weaving, pottery, printmaking, to name a few. Among the many artists who took up this challenge was Miriam Schapiro, represented here by an ebullient circular collage that draws on patterning and textile traditions.

The design of Ms. Schapiro’s concentric, centralizing composition alludes to women’s genitals, which points to another visual strategy adopted by female artists: an empowering use of sexual imagery and depictions of the female body. Before the early 20th century, women were largely excluded from art academies, and even when they were allowed in, they weren’t allowed to study nude models. Men, in this way, maintained a virtual monopoly on their depiction.

Caricature and satire were also important tools for early feminist artists. May Stevens’s “Study for print ‘Big Daddy’ ” (1969) is an early drawing for her “Big Daddy” series of paintings depicting a thick-necked nude man with a slobbering bulldog sitting on his lap. The figure, whom the artist called “big daddy,” is a cartoonlike personification of male authority and of United States militarism during the Vietnam War era; the paintings are some of the most famous works of early American feminist art.
145 2007-01-07 The professors built two hypothetical portfolios, one for the valuation-motivated buys and the other for the valuation-motivated sells. The portfolios changed composition every quarter. From January 1980 through December 2003, the professors found, the first portfolio performed 2.8 percentage points a year better than the stock market as a whole, on average, while the second trailed the market by an average of 0.7 percentage point a year. The study says this means that “when fund managers make purely valuation-motivated trades, they beat the market by a substantial margin.”

Then there are the trades that are intended primarily to meet redemption requests or to put new cash to work in the market. The professors assume that “liquidity-motivated buys” are those that occur when there is a large inflow of new cash, while “liquidity-motivated sells” occur amid a large number of redemption requests. They acknowledge that some of these trades may be motivated by considerations other than liquidity. But, they say, the average trade in their liquidity-motivated categories is less likely than that of the valuation-motivated groups to be a pure reflection of managers’ beliefs about a stock’s potential.

The professors built two portfolios of stocks in these liquidity-motivated categories, one for the buys and one for the sells.

The relative performance of the two liquidity portfolios was nearly opposite that of the valuation-motivated versions, with the buys now lagging the market and the sells outperforming it. In fact, the liquidity-motivated sells outperformed the buys by two percentage points a year, on average. In other words, the transactions that managers must make to meet liquidity needs eliminate much of the profit from trades made for valuation reasons. Transaction costs, which were not included in the calculations, coupled with management fees, eliminate the rest of that profit for the average fund.

The professors interpret their findings to mean that mutual fund investors pay a high price for the chance to invest or withdraw money at any time. And the cost is borne by all investors, whether or not they take advantage of the opportunity. The investment implication is clear: don’t pay for liquidity unless you need daily access to your money.

Are closed-end funds the preferred alternative for long-term investors? It might appear that way. After all, the amount of assets under management at closed-end funds doesn’t change when investors buy or sell shares, because the number of shares outstanding is fixed. This means the managers of closed-end funds are immune from rapid inflows and outflows of cash.

But Professor Gibson said in an interview that he did not think closed-end funds were the way to go. Because the funds’ assets under management don’t change even when performance is awful, the closed-end fund industry “helps entrench poor-performing managers,” he said. And because these funds won’t receive new money even when performance is spectacular, he said, they tend to “turn away the best managers who want to grow asset-based fees.”

Because of those considerations, Professor Gibson says he instead favors open-end mutual funds that significantly restrict short-term trades. Such funds, he says, are more likely than closed-end funds to attract better managers and offer a powerful incentive for them to beat the market. And because of the restrictions on short-term trades, long-term investors don’t subsidize the liquidity needs of the short-term traders.

Professor Gibson says he particularly likes funds that charge redemption fees on short-term trades, especially when the fees go back into the fund. It’s easy to see why short-term traders don’t like these fees, he said, but “if you’re a long-term investor, they are your best friend.”
146 2007-01-07 So much for Myles Brand’s exhortations that athletic departments should become more frugal. Brand, president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, has acknowledged that, when properly accounted, fewer than 10 of the more than 1,000 college athletic departments run a surplus.

So, what’s going on? It’s the market. If universities want to get the best coaches, they have to pay the going rate.

Never mind that the presidents of large public universities generally have compensation packages of $200,000 to $700,000. Never mind that paying the football coach 5 to 15 times more than the college president (and many times more than the professors) sends a strange message to the student body about the institution’s priorities. Never mind that Article I of the N.C.A.A. Constitution affirms that academics have primacy over athletics. The market demands it.

What kind of a skewed market makes these demands? First, the players are not allowed to be compensated. Instead, the coaches walk off with the value produced by the “student-athletes.”

Second, athletic departments have no shareholders who seek dividends or increases in stock value through higher reported profits. That is, these departments face no market pressure to turn a profit. Money finds a way to be spent in such a circumstance and costs bloat.

Third, athletic departments benefit from privileged tax treatment. Perhaps most notably, boosters can give money to the program and procure the privilege of buying some choice seats on the 50-yard line. Tax laws allow a booster to deduct 80 percent of such a donation, which in practice is little more than a personal seat license.

Fourth, it is in athletic directors’ self-interest to up the ante on coaches’ compensation. Their worth increases along with their coaches’ pay.

Yet, even given the artificiality of the market, do Division I-A football coaches generate $2 million to $4 million of additional revenue annually? Not likely. The average I-A football team earns about $15 million a year in revenue; the average N.F.L. team earns about $160 million. How can a college coach create as much value as an N.F.L. coach?

There may be an N.C.A.A. coach in a given year, like Greg Schiano at Rutgers in 2006, who is largely responsible for turning a program around, and he may create more than a couple of million dollars of value. But there are several dozen Division I-A coaches who earn in excess of $1 million, and it is likely that nearly half of them preside over losing teams.

But the real point is that college athletics are not supposed to be run according to the rules of the marketplace. They are supposed to be run according to the norms of the university.

Athletic departments should not be able to have it both ways: either they are part of academia and are treated as nonprofit institutions, or they are professional enterprises, whose players are paid a salary and covered by workmen’s compensation, and they pay taxes like other business entities.
147 2007-01-07 According to a report last month by the Mortgage Bankers Association, delinquency rates for the three-month period ended Sept. 30 rose to 2.44 percent from 2.29 percent for loans to those with high credit ratings, or prime borrowers. In the subprime market, delinquencies rose to 12.6 percent, from 11.7 percent.

The delinquency rate for subprime adjustable-rate mortgages jumped by nearly a point, to 13.22 percent. The New York region has been less affected because the local economy has been strong enough to help many borrowers make their payments and because subprime loans make up a smaller share of the market.

Those advocating legal action say lenders in recent years have approached more subprime borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages that in past eras were reserved for people with higher incomes who could presumably afford to take greater risks.

Payment-option ARMs are perhaps the best example. Such loans allow borrowers to choose whatever monthly payment they wish, even if it means paying back less than the loan’s nominal interest rate. In such cases, the loan amount actually grows until a certain point, at which time the loan shifts to a mandated monthly payment, often at much higher interest rates.

Payment-option ARMs had historically been the province of those who could depend on big annual bonuses to pay down loans they neglected most of the year. But more recently such mortgages have grown popular with borrowers who could not afford to buy a house unless they cut corners on the initial payments.

Many of these borrowers essentially bet that the value of their houses would climb quickly enough that they could use the accumulated equity to refinance with a more affordable loan. The recent housing slowdown has curbed such plans.

Mortgage lenders argue that if borrowers made those kinds of speculative bets, they did so willingly.

Ken Markison, senior director of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said that lenders generally have not given payment-option ARMs to subprime borrowers and that those with better credit have used such loans successfully. “We don’t believe there would be a basis for such suits,” he said.

But Jean Constantine-Davis, a senior lawyer at the AARP Foundation, said that lenders sometimes qualify borrowers based on their ability to pay the lowest rate on an adjustable loan, not the maximum rate, while other lenders do not require adequate evidence that a borrower can repay. Such situations, she said, can serve as grounds for a lawsuit.

Still, anyone hoping for an easy release from a loan gone bad may not find much relief in any possible suits.

“I don’t see this as a boondoggle for borrowers,” Ms. Constantine-Davis said. “But some of these situations are just so far out there that I suppose it’s possible you could get the loan declared invalid.”
148 2007-01-07 Isaac Greenbaum, a continuing education student at New York University, remembers the day last semester when his media studies class was settling into a discussion of its next group project. Shortly after class began, a brawny, bare-chested figure...
149 2007-01-07 To the Sports Editor:     ''Bonding Over a Mascot'' (Dec. 29) was heartwarming on the one hand in terms of Seminole pride and heritage, but disheartening for using the term ''escaped slaves'' to describe descendant Africans as part of ''an amalgam...
150 2007-01-07 Graphs show fourth quarter results in categories of stocks vs bonds, growth vs value, sector by sector and leaders and laggards (S)...
151 2007-01-07 The ideal slate of Oscar candidates, as chosen by the three critics of The New York Times.    BEST PICTURE    A.O. SCOTT  Letters From Iwo Jima  Little Children  Little Miss Sunshine  Pan's Labyrinth  Days of Glory    MANOHLA DARGIS  Letters From ...
152 2007-01-07 To the Editor:     Re ''Broadening Beach Access'' (editorial, Dec. 10): You describe some residents of Long Beach Island as ''vehemently opposed'' to proposed regulations for beach access. I am one of those residents, and my opposition is based on...
153 2007-01-07 The City of Passaic, faced with a rising number of day laborers standing on street corners and in parking lots in hopes of landing work, opened a center last week that is to serve as a hub for those looking for a day job.      The building on Park...
154 2007-01-08 John Sculley, the former C.E.O. of Apple Computer, may have gotten the boot from Steve Jobs, but hey, no hard feelings....
155 2007-01-08 PARADISE VALLEY, Ariz. - Perhaps few people know the offense that Florida will run in the Bowl Championship Series title game better than the former Utah quarterback Alex Smith. He flew in to town on Saturday to cheer on his old coaches, including...
156 2007-01-08 Birds dropping dead in Austin......
157 2007-01-08 Quadrangle Group, an investment firm that focuses on media and communications companies, said Monday it had promoted several professionals in its private equity and distressed debt groups. Jeffrey Nordhaus, who joined the firm from Goldman Sachs i...
158 2007-01-08 A few months after announcing his resignation as HSBC's European head of investment banking, David Livingstone has resurfaced as Credit Suisse's head of mergers and acquisitions in Europe. Mr. Livingstone started his new position in Credit Suisse'...
159 2007-01-08 A former employee of Spinner Asset Management, a $200 million New York hedge fund, has been accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of illegal short selling as part of trades in private investments. The former executive, Joseph Spiegel, ...
160 2007-01-08 It's time to put the record Wall Street bonuses you've heard about in perspective. Yes, a few investment stars did reap tens of millions, topped by Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman of Goldman Sachs, who received $53.4 million. But these people wer...
161 2007-01-08 A hedge fund, Caxton Associates, has raised its stake in InFocus, a provider of digital protection technology, in a move that might signal a proxy battle. Caxton said in a filing that it had raised its stake to 11.2 percent from 9.9 percent after ...
162 2007-01-08 Luxpro, fresh from a legal victory against Apple Computer over whether its portable music players are ripoffs of Apple's iPod Shuffle, is seeking $100 million in damages in the case. Luxpro of Taiwan was previously sued by Apple, which claimed Lux...
163 2007-01-08 The Highbridge Capital Management hedge fund said Monday that it had invested in the energy business of the Louis Dreyfus Group, the old-line commodities trading firm, forming a venture with an enterprise value of more than $1 billion. Highbridge ...
164 2007-01-08 The Bank of England wants London-based hedge funds to agree to a voluntary code of conduct to encourage greater transparency and provide better governance in the contentious industry, The Guardian reported. Rather than go for heavy-handed regulati...
165 2007-01-08 Research In Motion said Friday that two board members will no longer be involved in the audit committee's discussions regarding the company's internal review of stock option grants. The two board members, Douglas Wright and Kendall Cork, who are a...
166 2007-01-08 If you sit at a table at the Infiniti booth on the Cobo Hall show room floor for more than two minutes, somebody will come by and give you a plate with prosciutto-wrapped melon, edamame, and bruschetta. That hardly ever happens under normal circum...
167 2007-01-08 Even though they were officially sworn in along with Gov. Eliot Spitzer last Monday in Albany, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo held ceremonial inaugurations in New York City over the weekend, which were attended by relatives, local officials and other invited guests. Mr. Paterson’s was at 6 p.m. on Friday at Riverside Church; Mr. Cuomo’s took place yesterday at the Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Both officials were sworn in by their fathers: Basil A. Paterson, a former deputy mayor of New York City and secretary of state of New York, and Mario M. Cuomo, who was governor from 1983 to 1994. Aides said the ceremonies were financed with campaign money and not at public expense.
168 2007-01-08 In the months and years since, the plan’s scope was repeatedly cut back because of budget constraints. Some changes, like the elimination of a subbasement, went unquestioned.

But in November, a minor revolt on the authority’s board greeted the proposed elimination of a passageway planned between the R and W lines and the E train terminus at the World Trade Center. Several members cast it as an either-or issue, pitting the form of the headhouse against the function of the passageway.

“We are not building cathedrals here,” said one board member, Nancy Shevell Blakeman.

Back at their drawing boards in recent weeks, the authority’s planners found that they could build a relatively inexpensive connector by using a corner of what is now the temporary PATH terminal rather than a route under Church Street.

Despite threats by board members to scuttle the dome, the plans were apparently never seriously in danger of being scaled back much further than they had already been.

Peter S. Kalikow, the authority’s chairman, said he had insisted “that we not lose sight of the project’s core benefits, like greater visibility enhanced by natural light to orient our customers and greater connectivity.”

Officials said repeatedly that they would not spend more than the $847 million in federal funds, but with little fat left to cut, the authority will have to look in its own budget to cover the difference between the federal money and the most recent cost estimate of $888 million.

Mysore L. Nagaraja, the president of M.T.A. Capital Construction, which is overseeing the project, said Mr. Kalikow “has agreed to make necessary funding available.” However, he added, “We are still looking for opportunities to save money.”

Current renderings show a headhouse somewhat less grand and decidedly less diaphanous than the one unveiled in 2004. The light-catching dome has been preserved, though in a different form.

Originally, the dome was to have reached 115 feet above the sidewalk and been clad in glass. The plan is now to cover the exterior in stainless steel. To make it easier to build, the designers — Grimshaw Architects, James Carpenter Design Associates and the engineering firm Arup — have shortened it about 10 feet, reduced its girth and turned it into a simpler, more conical form.

Through a circular skylight at the top of the dome, daylight will be reflected down an interior structure made of triangular aluminum panels held in a crisscross net of steel cables.

Ringing the bottom of the dome will be a two-story circular structure, somewhat like a doughnut in form, with authority offices and a restaurant. The circular structure will be enclosed in turn by a boxy 50-foot-high pavilion.

Security revisions to the pavilion echo those at the World Trade Center transportation hub, where the number of steel ribs was increased in part to reduce the expanse of glass that might be exposed to a blast.

About the Fulton Street headhouse, Mr. Nagaraja would say only that there would be “more structural members” and that these elements would be “more robust.” He added that there would be roughly the same amount of glass.

There will be two other large new aboveground entrances, at Broadway and Dey Street to the west and on the ground floor of 135 William Street to the east.

The William Street entrance will lead to the Fulton Street station of the Nos. 2 and 3 lines, where two stairways have been added to improve circulation and ease congestion on the narrow platform, and to the east end of the mezzanine above the platform of the Broadway-Nassau Street station on the A and C lines.

The A-C mezzanine, the central artery of the multistation complex, is especially hard to navigate, with its changing levels, switchback ramps and U-shaped directional arrows. It is to be entirely reconstructed on a single level. Ten new stairways, instead of the ramps, will connect it to the platform below.

A key goal of all the work at the transit center is to create clear sight lines, said William M. Wheeler, the director of special project development and planning at the authority. That means eliminating blind corners, U-turns and opaque surfaces wherever possible to help travelers visually orient themselves.

At the west end of the A-C mezzanine, where an artwork in the form of a metal grill is now suspended from the ceiling, the south wall will be removed. The mezzanine will then open into the lower level of the new headhouse.

The main floor of the headhouse — up one level but still 20 feet below the surrounding sidewalks — will open on to the Fulton Street platform of the Nos. 4 and 5 lines. The walls between the columns will be removed intermittently for a length of about 90 feet. This will broaden the boarding area and eliminate the choke point between the uptown platform and the A-C mezzanine.

New stairways are being added to the south end of the Nos. 4 and 5 platforms. The stairway to the uptown platform is already passable, though not open to the public until the end of the month. The stairway to the downtown platform, in front of 1 Liberty Plaza, is to open next September.

The 350-foot-long Dey Street passageway, by far the most ambitious subterranean element in the project, is now being built. It will link the headhouse to the Cortlandt Street station of the R and W lines and, through that station, to the World Trade Center transportation hub.

The passageway must be built within a kind of reverse bathtub, a structure that keeps the water out, because there is a high water table in this part of Lower Manhattan.

This bathtub is created by first constructing a 30-foot-deep subterranean palisade called a secant wall, made of interlocking concrete and steel pilings. Once this wall is in place, the soil can be safely excavated and the concrete box forming the passageway can be built. About 80 percent of the secant wall has been completed.

From the Cortlandt Street station, a 150-foot-long passageway will permit free transfers to the E train for several hundreds of riders at peak hours. In earlier plans, it was to have run under Church Street, an expensive proposition involving the relocation of utilities. Mr. Nagaraja said it had become clear to the authority in recent weeks that the space needed for this passageway would be available from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, allowing a much less expensive connector to be built.
169 2007-01-08 PROVIDENCE, R.I., Jan. 7 (AP) — Schools in three communities decided to reopen Monday after health investigators found no link between an elementary school student who contracted meningitis and three others in the state who were infected with encephalitis, including one who died.

More than 20,000 Rhode Island students were kept out of school on Thursday and Friday as the authorities searched for a possible link between the cases.

Test results received Saturday on a pupil at Hopkins Hill Elementary School in Coventry who had developed meningitis showed that the child did not have mycoplasma, the State Health Department said.
170 2007-01-08 Sylvia Fowles scored with 54 seconds remaining yesterday to give sixth-ranked Louisiana State a 57-55 victory against No. 15 Georgia in a Southeastern Conference game in Baton Rouge, La.

Fowles, who finished with a team-high 20 points, had a shot blocked by Tasha Humphrey, but kept possession to make the winning basket for L.S.U. (15-1, 1-0).

The Lady Bulldogs (13-3, 1-1) then had two chances to score, but Janese Hardrick missed a 3-pointer, then Humphrey missed a driving layup with three seconds left.

TEXAS 64, PURDUE 61 Tiffany Jackson scored 20 points and host Texas hit four free throws in the final 22 seconds to end No. 10 Purdue’s seven-game winning streak.

Carla Cortijo added 14 points and 8 rebounds for the Longhorns (11-4), who beat a ranked opponent for the first time in four tries this season.
171 2007-01-08 The Highbridge Capital Management hedge fund will announce today that it has taken a major equity stake in the energy business of the Louis Dreyfus Group, the old-line commodities trading firm, in a deal worth about $1 billion.

Highbridge Capital, a $17 billion hedge fund headquartered in New York that is majority owned by JPMorgan Chase, said it invested in Louis Dreyfus to gain more access to energy delivery and trading markets on its own.

The venture with Louis Dreyfus reflects a trend among larger hedge funds to try to diversify their investment offerings in an attempt to gather more capital.

“We saw this as a real opportunity that is uncorrelated to everything else we’re doing,” said Glenn Dubin, managing partner of Highbridge. He explained that he had considered trying to get Highbridge into the energy trading business more heavily on its own, but concluded, “there was no way we could do this by ourselves.”

Commodities have proved tricky for some multi-strategy funds. Amaranth, the $9 billion multistrategy fund that failed, had roots in a traditional investment strategy that then expanded aggressively into energy trading. Its initial success caused investors to pour billions into the fund, but when one energy trader made a series of bets that soured, the fund lost $6 billion in a week.

Highbridge and Dreyfus will jointly manage the venture, which will be called Louis Dreyfus Highbridge Energy and maintain its headquarters in Wilton, Conn. Before the Highbridge investment, Louis Dreyfus Energy was one of the 10 largest natural gas marketers in the United States and had worldwide interests in both the physical delivery of petroleum and natural gas as well as financial interests in energy.
172 2007-01-08 LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7 — Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, is using the Consumer Electronics Show here to highlight several new consumer-oriented products and to unveil a partnership with the Ford Motor Company to build Microsoft technology into several Ford models.

The show, the largest trade event in North America, has become an annual forum for Mr. Gates to mix product announcements with computer-filled visions of future Microsoft-based technologies.

In a presentation on Sunday night, the eve of the show, he sought to differentiate Microsoft from other companies by showing how its software products tie together a range of consumer activities including games, interactive television, communications and music.

Among the announcements was the introduction of a hardware upgrade to the Xbox 360 video-game system that will permit the system to deliver the Microsoft interactive television service being offered by partners, including AT&T. The system will duplicate many capabilities of the Media Center version of the Windows operating system, like the ability to record and play back digital video.

Microsoft and Ford are to offer a system called Sync, a voice-activated method for connecting cellphones and media players — like Microsoft’s Zune — to a vehicle. Similar systems are widely available in Japanese and German automobiles. Sync, the first major commercial introduction of the Microsoft Auto software, offers hands-free phone dialing and can read incoming text messages through the car’s audio system.

Microsoft is also introducing a consumer software product called Windows Home Server that will be marketed with several partners, including Hewlett-Packard. It will be an appliancelike device that will connect to a home network and perform functions like network-based backup and media and file-sharing as well as functioning as a Web server. The price will be between $400 and $500, according to Microsoft executives. The product will be based on Windows Server 2003, and not the company’s newer Windows Vista operating system.

On the program with Mr. Gates was Robbie Bach, the executive in charge of the company’s consumer products, to demonstrate game play involving a PC user running Windows Vista competing against a home user playing the game on an Xbox 360. There is no public timetable for such a capability, a company executive said, adding that the feature would not be available for all of the Xbox 360 games.
173 2007-01-08 Albert Bergeret and his New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players have been plying the Savoyard repertory for more than three decades — starting at a time when small operetta companies were plentiful in New York — and outliving all the competition. That isn’t how fans of this repertory, and even admirers of this company, would have wanted it; although the groups that flourished in the 1970s worked on tight budgets that barely allowed for makeshift sets and costumes, their combined activity kept the scene lively and the music on the stage.

Still, it would be hard to find a more devoted champion of this repertory than Mr. Bergeret, whose company has come a long way. Its productions, if by no means Met-scale extravaganzas, are attractively built. And the troupe has moved from Symphony Space to the more grandly theatrical City Center. If only its season stretched through the year, as it did in the early days, instead of being confined to a few weeks every January.

Mr. Bergeret revived his trusty production of “The Mikado” on Saturday, and the evening performance (there was also one in the afternoon) had everything an admirer of this music could want. There was, for example, a fine balance of the traditional text and topical amendments.

In “As Someday It May Happen,” for example, Ko-Ko, the squeamish Lord High Executioner, expanded his little list of those who would not be missed to include S.U.V. drivers and “the checkout girl at Rite Aid who’s perpetually” annoyed. In the “Mi-Ya Sa-Ma” chorus the nonsense syllables were replaced with the names of Japanese electronics and motorcycle companies after the first pass. And when the Mikado sang of making the punishment fit the crime, he suggested severe penalties for cellphone users in the theater.

Mostly Gilbert’s libretto and Sullivan’s music were left to do their work as written. That work includes skewering governments, bureaucrats, legal arcana and, not least, opera itself. Along the way it offers a parade of Gilbert and Sullivan favorites, among them, “A Wand’ring Minstrel I,” “Three Little Maids From School Are We” and “Here’s a How-De-Do.”

Daniel Lockwood’s strong, attractive tenor served Nanki-Poo’s music well and proved to be the most polished voice in the cast. But vocal beauty isn’t the point here. If Stephen Quint was a vocally rough-hewn Ko-Ko, he has a good theatrical voice and an ear for broad comic timing. Broader still was Louis Dall’Ava’s portrayal of Pooh-Bah as a roly-poly in makeup reminiscent of that worn by the rock band Kiss.
174 2007-01-08 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
175 2007-01-08 Re “Lock the Library! Rowdy Students Are Taking Over” (front page, Jan. 2) captures a struggle many public libraries are working hard to address: how to balance the growing demand for a community “living room” space for preteens and teenagers with the desire for more technology and with the continuing need for more traditional quiet space for research and information.

We’ve seen many examples where teenagers actively seek out the library and where library staffs and boards collaborate successfully with teenager advisory groups to plan programs that provide a structured after-school environment for this age group.

There are many communities in New York and New Jersey where teenagers coexist peacefully in libraries along with adults. Elizabeth, Princeton and Queens, to name a few, have librarians who specialize in working with this age group in a way that engages them and makes them lifetime library users.

Unfortunately, many of our libraries are continually being asked to do more with the same or less money and staffing. Libraries are a vital “third place” for people of all ages and backgrounds. We must work together to find and fund solutions that balance the range of community needs while keeping our libraries open to all.
176 2007-01-08 To the Editor:     Re ''Lock the Library! Rowdy Students Are Taking Over'' (front page, Jan. 2) captures a struggle many public libraries are working hard to address: how to balance the growing demand for a community ''living room'' space for pret...
177 2007-01-08 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:     American Capital Strategies, six million shares. JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and UBS....
178 2007-01-08 Even though they were officially sworn in along with Gov. Eliot Spitzer last Monday in Albany, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo held ceremonial inaugurations in New York City over the weekend, which were attended by ...
179 2007-01-08 A BOLD NEW TOYOTA -- Toyota is making some surprisingly aggressive moves this week at the International Auto Show as it moves into markets long dominated by its American and European rivals. And they mark a notable shift for a company where conser...
180 2007-01-09 Blogtalk: Kerfuffle in Connecticut...
181 2007-01-09 Samsung thinks it can crack Apple’s hold on the music player market....
182 2007-01-09 As Steve Jobs was preparing to take the stage at the MacWorld trade show to make his buzz-drenched annual keynote address, pundits were piling on to excoriate him for Apple's options-backdating scandal. True to form, Mr. Jobs riveted the audience ...
183 2007-01-09 Michael Apted, president of the Directors Guild of America, announced today that the five nominees for outstanding directing achievement in a feature film are: BILL CONDON, for "DREAMGIRLS" Paramount Pictures JONATHAN DAYTON & VALERIE FARIS, for "...
184 2007-01-09 Stifel Financial said Tuesday it had agreed to acquire Ryan Beck Holdings, a financial firm that postponed its initial public offering last summer. Stifel, which is based in St. Louis, will pay about $91.1 million in stock for Ryan Beck, a unit of...
185 2007-01-09 Smelling buyout opportunities in Asia, the law firm Kirkland & Ellis announced Monday that it has opened an office in Hong Kong after receiving regulatory approval. The bureau will be led by David Patrick Eich, a partner specializing in private eq...
186 2007-01-09 Nasdaq and the London Stock Exchange traded trans-Atlantic insults on Monday, as London exchange shareholders consider Nasdaq's $5.3 billion hostile takeover offer. Nasdaq has been trying to take over the London exchange since March, but has faile...
187 2007-01-09 McAfee, the security software developer, said late Monday that it expects to record charges of $25 million to $45 million over "several periods commencing with the fourth quarter of 2006″ related to the improper granting of stock options. In Oct...
188 2007-01-09 Xerox options trading surged Monday as trader speculation spread that Eastman Kodak could acquire the printer maker, options analysts told Reuters. But analysts downplayed the speculation, noting that such a transaction is unlikely to occur becaus...
189 2007-01-09 Mergers and acquisitions in the software industry, once characterized by multibillion-dollar transactions, entered into a phase of "leftover consolidation" in 2006, a report from The 451 Group, a research firm, concludes. While the number of trans...
190 2007-01-09 Motion picture and television nominees and winners for the 64th annual Golden Globe Awards.

Actress, Drama:

 Penelope Cruz, "Volver"

 Judi Dench, "Notes on a Scandal"

 Maggie Gyllenhaal, "Sherrybaby"

 Helen Mirren, "The Queen"

 Kate Winslet, "Little Children"

Actor, Drama:

 Leonardo DiCaprio, "Blood Diamond"

 Leonardo DiCaprio, "The Departed"

 Peter O'Toole, "Venus"

 Will Smith, "The Pursuit of Happyness"

 Forest Whitaker, "The Last King of Scotland"

Picture, Musical or Comedy: 

"Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan"

 "The Devil Wears Prada"

 "Dreamgirls"

 "Little Miss Sunshine"

 "Thank You for Smoking"

Actress, Musical or Comedy:

 Annette Bening, "Running With Scissors"

 Toni Collette, "Little Miss Sunshine"

 Beyonce Knowles, "Dreamgirls"

 Meryl Streep, "The Devil Wears Prada"

 Renee Zellweger, "Miss Potter"

Actor, Musical or Comedy: 

 Sacha Baron Cohen, "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan"

 Johnny Depp, "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest"

 Aaron Eckhart, "Thank You for Smoking"

 Chiwetel Ejiofor, "Kinky Boots"

 Will Ferrell, "Stranger than Fiction"

Director:

 Clint Eastwood, "Flags of Our Fathers"

 Clint Eastwood, "Letters from Iwo Jima"

 Steven Frears, "The Queen"

 Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, "Babel"

 Martin Scorsese, "The Departed"

Screenplay:

 Guillermo Arriaga, "Babel"

 Todd Field and Tom Perrotta, "Little Children"

 Patrick Marber, "Notes on a Scandal"

 William Monahan, "The Departed"

 Peter Morgan, "The Queen"

Foreign Language:

 "Apocalypto," USA

 "Letters from Iwo Jima," USA/Japan

 "The Lives of Others," Germany

 "Pan's Labyrinth," Mexico

 "Volver" Spain

Original Score:

 Alexandre Desplat, "The Painted Veil"

 Clint Mansell, "The Fountain"

 Gustavo Santaolalla, "Babel"

 Carlo Siliotto, "Nomad"

 Hans Zimmer, "The Da Vinci Code"

Original Song:

 "A Father's Way" from "The Pursuit of Happyness"

 "Listen" from "Dreamgirls"

 "Never Gonna Break My Faith" from "Bobby"

 "The Song of the Heart" from "Happy Feet"

 "Try Not to Remember" from "Home of the Brave"

Actress, Musical or Comedy:

 Marcia Cross, "Desperate Housewives" (ABC)

 America Ferrera, "Ugly Betty" (ABC)

 Felicity Huffman, "Desperate Housewives" (ABC)

 Julia Louis-Dreyfus, "The New Adventures Of Old Christine" (CBS)

 Mary-Louise Parker, "Weeds" (Showtime)

Actor, Musical or Comedy:

 Alec Baldwin, "30 Rock" (NBC)

 Zach Braff, "Scrubs" (NBC)

 Steve Carell, "The Office" (NBC)

 Jason Lee, "My Name Is Earl" (NBC)

 Tony Shalhoub, "Monk" (USA)

Supporting Actress, Mini-Series:

 Emily Blunt, "Gideon's Daughter" (BBC)

 Toni Collette, "Tsunami, The Aftermath" (HBO)

 Katherine Heigl, "Grey's Anatomy" (ABC)

 Sarah Paulson, "Studio 60 On The Sunset Strip" (NBC)

 Elizabeth Perkins, "Weeds" (Showtime)
191 2007-01-09 Conrad Black engaged in insider trading with the help of Toronto-based Brascan in 1998 to prop up the share price of Hollinger International, according to part of an expanded series of allegations by prosecutors in the United States Attorney's off...
192 2007-01-09 In her research on AIDS, Emily Oster has come up with three main conclusions:

One, as I described in this week’s column, is that better-off, healthy Africans practice safer sex more than they once did — much as Americans do. But poorer Africans, who have much shorter average lifespans even if they don’t contract HIV, have not made as many changes.

Two — and arguably most important to the spread of the disease — other sexually transmitted diseases, like herpes, are far more common in Africa, and they ease the transmission of HIV. Medical researchers have long known that other diseases played an important role, but Ms. Oster thinks the role is even larger than many people have realized.

Three, the officials estimates on the number of AIDS cases are seriously exaggerated, perhaps by a factor of two or three, she says. But the estimates have been getting more accurate over time, which means that number of cases is actually growing more quickly than the official statistics suggest.

Ms. Oster summarized the work herself in a recent article in Esquire magazine. She has also posted her research papers (here, here and here) on her Web site.
193 2007-01-09 The new Democratic Congressional leaders, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, have already voiced their opposition to sending more combat troops to Iraq.

There was little, if anything, that was new in Mr. Snow’s remarks -- wait until the president speaks on Wednesday night, he said in effect -- or in Mr. Kennedy’s. But the starkly different views of the Iraq conflict underscored again the fissures the war has carved, not just between the White House and Democratic lawmakers but, to a lesser extent, within the ranks of Republicans and Democrats.

Mr. Snow declined to discuss specifics of Mr. Bush’s speech, planned for Wednesday, although the president is widely expected to ask for at least a short-term increase of about 20,000 troops as part of a broader plan. Mr. Snow said the speech would be “the beginning of an important consideration of how we move forward in Iraq.”

Success there, Mr. Snow said, would “send a message to the world” that the United States is in Iraq to secure liberty and offer “the definitive refutation of terrorist tactics and strategies.”

As for Democrats, Mr. Snow said they must choose: “Number one, do you want Iraq to succeed? And if so, what does that mean? And number two, do you believe in supporting the troops, as you say, and how do you express that support?”

Mr. Kennedy praised the “pride and valor” of American troops and said he and other critics would always support them. But he recalled the American agony of Vietnam four decades ago, asserting that Iraq could become another “quagmire.”

“Listen to this comment from a high-ranking American official,” Mr. Kennedy said, recalling a commitment to “help to lay the cornerstone for a diverse and independent Asia” and to “stay the course.”

“This is not President Bush speaking,” Mr. Kennedy said. “It is President Lyndon Johnson, 40 years ago, ordering a hundred thousand more American soldiers to Vietnam.”

Mr. Kennedy has introduced legislation to specify that no more troops be sent to Iraq, and that no additional dollars be spent on such an escalation, “unless and until Congress approves the president’s plan.”

Mr. Kennedy is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, some of whose Democratic members have more views more nuanced than his. The committee’s new chairman, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, for example, has said he would not rule out supporting a plan to dispatch more troops, provided that the proposal was tied to a broader strategy to begin reducing American involvement and bringing troops home.

A Republican on the panel, Senator John McCain of Arizona, has taken the politically unpopular stance of supporting a troop increase in Iraq. But another Republican senator, Gordon Smith of Oregon, said recently he has lost faith in the White House’s policy. (Mr. Smith is not on the Armed Services Committee.)

Mr. Kennedy said the right course is obvious. “The American people sent a clear message in November that we must change course in Iraq and begin to withdraw our troops, not escalate their presence,” he said. “An escalation, whether it is called a surge or any other name, is still an escalation, and I believe it would be an immense new mistake.”

When Mr. Snow was asked to describe the difference between “surge” and “escalation,” the latter being an emotionally charged word from the Vietnam era, as “quagmire” is, he said people should shun “a one-word characterization.”

“As far as public opinion, the president will not shape policy according to public opinion,” Mr. Snow said, “but he does understand that it’s important to bring the public back to this war and restore public confidence and support for the mission.”
194 2007-01-09 “The fact that Mark didn’t get in, I think it’s more of people making a statement about the Congressional hearings than it is what he was able to do on the baseball field,” Gwynn said on a conference call yesterday after the voting results were announced. “I don’t mind saying I think he’s a Hall of Famer. I do.”

But for this year and possibly for the 14 years McGwire has remaining on the ballot, the members of the Baseball Writers Association of America thought otherwise. Under the voting rules, each writer can nominate up to 10 players who have been retired for at least five seasons. McGwire ended up ninth in the voting, trailing far behind Gwynn, who received 532 votes, or 97.6 percent, and even further behind Ripken, who was chosen on 537 ballots, or 98.5 percent, the third-highest percentage ever.

Unlike Gwynn, who called McGwire a Hall of Famer multiple times, Ripken was not ready to give McGwire that designation.

“When I sit and look at myself, I don’t think it’s my place to actually cast judgment,” Ripken said. “I honestly believe the truth will be known. It saddens me that baseball as a whole had to go through this process and had the integrity of the game be questioned because of steroid use.”

There were 32 players listed alphabetically on this year’s ballot, with McGwire slotted between Don Mattingly and Jack Morris. Each player has a box beside his name. An unchecked box is a no vote.

McGwire’s presence on the ballot was tricky for voters because it forced them to reach beyond the statistics and judge a player’s behavior and judgment. Voters are instructed to rate a player on his record, playing ability, contributions to a team, character, integrity and sportsmanship, although the last three elements are rarely invoked in Hall of Fame discussions.

Rick Hummel of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch said he included McGwire on his ballot because he felt there were too many unanswered questions about steroids. Since McGwire never failed a drug test or admitted that he used steroids, Hummel said he chose to focus on the statistics. Hummel said McGwire’s 1,626 lifetime hits, a paltry number for a potential Hall of Famer, vexed him as much as the allegations about steroids. Baseball did not have a testing policy for steroids, or penalties, until after McGwire retired.

“It wasn’t a slam dunk,” Hummel said, about his vote. “He wasn’t squeaky clean.”

Interestingly, Hummel won the J.G. Taylor Spink Award, which honors writers, and will be inducted into the Hall in July, ahead of one of the most dynamic players he has ever covered. He said he did not believe McGwire will ever join him there..

“It’s hard to jump from 23.5 to 75 percent,” Hummel said. “Everybody keeps saying they’re reserving judgment until everything comes out. Whatever comes out is going to be worse. It’s not going to make it better.”

The verdict on McGwire could eventually have a trickle-down affect on the Hall of Fame chances of other players who have been linked with steroids. Rafael Palmeiro is one of four players with more than 3,000 hits and 500 homers, but he failed a drug test in the 2005 season. Sammy Sosa, whose home run battle with McGwire in that 1998 season entranced much of the nation, has also been linked to steroid use and his unrevealing testimony at the 2005 Congressional hearings has been criticized as well.

And then there is Barry Bonds, who eclipsed McGwire’s single-season record with 73 home runs in 2001 and needs just 22 home runs to pass Hank Aaron and become baseball’s all-time home run king. Bonds remains under investigation by a Federal grand jury in San Francisco ns uid

While Ripken owns minor league baseball teams and runs youth leagues and Gwynn is the coach at San Diego State, McGwire has basically disappeared from the baseball scene. McGwire lives in a gated community in southern California where he plays golf and apparently has no connection to baseball. He was not available for comment yesterday.

Ripken, Jr. and Gwynn both played their entire careers for the same team, a rarity in their generation. Ripken, who helped usher in the era of the tall, powerful shortstop, is best known for his incredible durability. He played in 2,632 straight games, breaking Lou Gehrig’s seemingly unbreakable record of 2,130. Ripken won two Most Valuable Player Awards and had 3,184 hits and 431 homers in 21 seasons.

Gwynn, a magician with the bat, collected 3141 hits, won eight batting titles and batted .338 in 20 seasons. In addition, Gwynn, who never hit lower than .309, was a 15-time All-Star and five-time Gold Glove Award winner.

McGwire has the seventh most homers in history, but, right now, he is a long way from joining Ripken, Gwynn and others in Cooperstown, N.Y. Gwynn said McGwire “dominated an era,” which is typically the barometer used for a player getting into the Hall. Not anymore. Not when judging the steroid era.

“We all knew,” Gwynn said, about players using steroids. “All you all knew. We knew. Players knew. Owners knew. Everybody knew. And we didn’t say anything about it.”
195 2007-01-09 “We ought to be damned proud of this state,” he said. “I am.”

But he noted that much work needs to be done in several other areas, with one more urgent than all the others.

“I know there is no shortage of pressing issues for us to address, sooner rather than later,” said Mr. Corzine, a Democrat. “And my friends, I promise you, we will get there. But today, right now, there is one challenge we must meet.”

The state’s property taxes are twice the national average and have been increasing about 7 percent per year, he said. The owner of a modest home in New Jersey pays $6,000 or more in property taxes, and the state relies on this form of revenue more than others.

Some 45 percent of the state’s total tax revenue is raised from property taxes, compared with an average of about 30 percent for the rest of the nation.

The high property taxes, the governor said, “hold back the public’s confidence in our future.”

The governor then spent most of the rest of the speech talking about how he and the Legislature could reduce and stabilize property taxes for the foreseeable future, to the exclusion of talking about other issues and proposals, as other governors typically do in their State of the State addresses.

Mr. Corzine urged lawmakers to continue to work to enact a plan that would cut property taxes for most homeowners by 20 percent and would impose a 4 percent cap on annual increases.

“Talk of property tax relief and reform has been around Trenton for 20 years,” Mr. Corzine said. “At some point, there is an obligation to do more than just talk. That time is now.”

The 20 percent cut would cost $2 billion per year and be paid with money that has gone toward property tax rebates and with sales tax revenue. Still, it relies on excess sales tax revenue for this year, which means the state needs to find $400 million per year to pay for the tax cut beyond 2007.

Mr. Corzine said the plan would be financed through as-yet unapproved proposals, such as one to appoint a comptroller to audit government spending, and by urging governments to share expenses. Also, he is seeking to cut pension and health benefits for state workers.

Mr. Corzine said legislators have to create stronger incentives for the state’s myriad governmental bodies to share functions, because the redundancy is costing taxpayers. He noted that the state has “566 municipalities, 616 school districts, 486 local authorities, 792 fire districts.”

“For crying out loud, we have 23 school districts that don’t operate a single school,” he said.

Not everyone was happy with his proposals. State employee unions anticipate a fight with the governor over his plans to change their benefits. The governor said in his address that if employees don’t agree to changes in labor negotiations, they would be accomplished in “other forums,” which union leaders say they take to mean the Legislature.

“I think that was unfortunate,” said Bob Master, a Communications Workers of America director, The Associated Press reported.

Also, municipal leaders say residents may not ultimately like what merged municipal services will mean for them.

“You’re going to have massive reductions in services,” said Bill Dressel, the executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, according to The A.P.

The governor, however, said that people “understand the power of economies of scale.”

“They shop at Sam’s Club and Costco,” he said. “They see cost savings in their private lives, in the economy and in governments across the country.

“They see our organizational fragmentation and ask ‘why?’ ” he said.

“The ball is in our court,” he told legislators. “It’s time to finish.

“To the public, I ask, hold us accountable.”
196 2007-01-09 Companies that hold their emissions below the caps can sell their excess rights to others. Those that exceed the caps must buy such rights. The going price in spot trading today is about 3.5 euros ($4.50) for each metric ton of carbon emissions, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets.

Mr. Byerly said that Washington did not object to such trading, only to the attempt by the union to unilaterally impose the system on airlines based elsewhere.

“The E.U. can do what it wants with its own carriers,” Mr. Byerly said, but applying the law to non-European airlines “is permissible only on the basis of mutual consent of the relevant foreign governments.”

Industry officials have said that the proposal could mean higher ticket prices for passengers, and say that aviation is not a major source of greenhouse gases, accounting for just 3 percent of carbon dioxide emissions worldwide.

Environmentalists, though, say that air traffic is growing rapidly around the world, counteracting progress made in other industries to reduce emissions.

Mr. Byerly is scheduled to meet for two days with European Union officials in hopes of concluding an “open skies” treaty to liberalize the trans-Atlantic aviation market. The two sides agreed on a draft treaty in November 2005, but the union wants the United States to ease restrictions on foreign ownership of American airlines as a condition for putting the treaty into effect.

Mary Peters, the American transportation secretary, said last month that the administration was withdrawing a plan to allow European airlines more freedom to invest in American carriers and to participate in management decisions. The plan was fiercely opposedby labor unions, by several United States airlines and by legislators of both parties. Under current law, no more than 25 percent of an American carrier’s voting stock can be held by foreigners.

Mr. Byerly said that though he shared the disappointment of the union’s transport commisioner, Jacques Barrot, that the plan did not win acceptance, but the Bush administration would not try again.

“It’s over,” he said. “It is necessary now on both sides of the Atlantic to accept the reality that a major change in U.S. rules governing control of U.S. airlines is simply not in the cards.”

Similarly, the United States wants there to be no link between the progress of the open-skies treaty and the issue of aircraft emissions, Mr. Byerly said.

A spokesman for Mr. Barrot said today that it was premature to comment on the union’s position in the open-skies talks before the two sides had met.
197 2007-01-09 Mr. Bloomberg said the federal government “has not been as good a partner to us as it should be.” He said the grants should be based solely on risk, not political considerations.

“Time and time again, our calls for fully risk-based homeland security funding have been ignored,” the mayor said. “Instead, we have seen large sums of homeland security money spread across the country like peanut butter. More than $3 billion has been distributed in this irrational way so far.”

He called the adjustments announced by Mr. Chertoff “a step in the right direction.” Under that plan, 55 percent of the $747 million in grants would be reserved for six high-risk urban areas (including New York City and northeastern New Jersey, treated as a single region), but Mr. Bloomberg predicted that the actual dollar amount will be “virtually the same” as last year.

Mr. Bloomberg did praise the department’s decision to loosen restrictions on how the grants can be spent. The city will now be allowed to use 25 percent of its grant money, he said, to pay for the roughly 1,000 police officers dedicated to intelligence and counterterrorism. But the mayor criticized restrictions that prevent the city from using the money for construction projects that “harden” buildings or monuments against attack.

The mayor said the city received just $4.34 per capita for bioterrorism in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, putting it 27th of 54 states and cities eligible for such money.

The mayor also said the city was at risk of being denied access to $1 billion for improvements in communication systems that state and local law enforcement agencies use to communicate with one another.

The reason, he said, is because New York City uses a different frequency, in the 400 megahertz band of the spectrum, than the 700 megahertz band specified in federal rules.

“This restriction punishes us for our aggressiveness in protecting our city,” the mayor said, adding that the city had already spent $1 billion on communication improvements and that the bandwidth used by the city was appropriate for a dense urban environment with skyscrapers and subways.

The mayor said the existing rules, if allowed to go forward, would represent “the height of foolishness,” adding, “The federal government has tried to apply uniform solutions to localities like New York City, which deserve more nuanced and individual attention.”

Warning against “the politicization of homeland security funding,” the mayor said, “Do not confuse risks with targets. Every place there are risks, but there aren’t that many targets, and targets are what the enemies of this country will focus on.”

Mr. Gorton testified that New York and Washington, as “targets of American power,” remained at high risk. “It defies our understanding of the nature of the threat to reduce funding designed to protect New York and Washington.”

At one point, responding a question from Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, Mr. Bloomberg said: “Our corn crop is very important. We can’t eat in this country without it. But homeland security monies shouldn’t go to protect the corn crop because that’s not what terrorists are going to try to attack.”

After the hearing, Mr. Bloomberg met privately with Ms. McCaskill. Later, he was to meet with Alphonso Jackson, secretary of urban development, and Adrian M. Fenty, the new mayor of Washington. Mr. Fenty has modeled his office arrangement after Mr. Bloomberg’s, working out of a “bullpen” alongside top aides instead of a traditional private office.
198 2007-01-09 What’s the point? It seems as if every brand but Nissan has a small crossover utility wagon. Enter the Rogue, Nissan’s first appearance at a crowded party where the Honda CR-V, Ford Escape and Hyundai Santa Fe are already guests.

What they said: Taking a page from the VW Jetta playbook, Nissan will pitch the Rogue

to younger singles and recently married couples who are sliding down that slippery slope down from their partying days to responsible adulthood.

What they didn’t say: While the Rogue looks like a strong contender in all other respects, it won’t offer a V-6 engine, an option available in many competitors.

How much, how soon? It goes on sale in September as a 2008 model, starting around $20,000.

What makes it tick? The 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine produces 170 horsepower, which is directed to the wheels through a continuously variable transmission.

How’s it look? With a family resemblance to the larger Infiniti FX and Nissan Murano, the Rogue seems to have more of a cute-ute appeal than a rebel streak.
199 2007-01-09 Singapore Airlines and AirAsia of Malaysia agreed to buy $8 billion worth of airplanes from Airbus and Boeing. AirAsia agreed to buy 50 A320 planes from Airbus and obtained options on 50 more. Airbus also separately announced a deal for 12 wide-body A330s with options for 10 more from the Spanish tourism and transport company Grupo Marsans.
200 2007-01-09 A judge temporarily blocked a new state law that bans fund-raising by lawmakers, state officeholders and candidates during the legislative session. Judge Richard G. Callahan of Circuit Court said the General Assembly had failed to address concerns raised by a federal judge who struck down a similar state law in 1996 as an unconstitutional infringement on free speech. The ban is part of a law that also eliminated individual contribution limits, banned cash contributions to candidates from political parties, prohibited certain people from running for office and imposed new reporting requirements by the Ethics Commission on lobbyists. The judge’s ruling applies only to the fund-raising ban.
201 2007-01-09 Girls as young as 9 who are overweight are more likely than girls of regular weight to develop serious short-term and long-term health problems that increase their risk of developing heart disease, according to the Growth and Health Study, conducted by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. As part of the study, 2,379 girls ages 9 and 10 were tracked for more than 10 years. According to the report of the study published in The Journal of Pediatrics, young girls who were overweight were 3 to 10 times as likely as girls of regular weight to have unhealthy blood pressure, cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
202 2007-01-09 “Yes, they will kill thousands,” Mr. Hussein says.

Before he was hanged Dec. 30 for offenses in another case, Mr. Hussein had used the so-called Anfal trial, involving the massacre of as many as 180,000 Iraqi Kurds, as a platform for arguing that the chemical weapons attacks of the kind that devastated the town of Halabja on March 16, 1988, were carried out by Iranian forces then fighting Iraq in an eight-year war.

But the recordings told another story. Court officials gave no hint as to how they obtained the recordings, which Iraqis familiar with Mr. Hussein’s voice said seemed to be authentic. But they appeared to have been made during meetings of his Revolutionary Command Council and of the Baath Party High Command, two groups that acted as rubber stamps for his decisions. Mr. Hussein regularly ordered meetings to be recorded, according to Iraqis who knew the inner workings of Mr. Hussein’s dictatorship.

Mr. Hussein sounds matter of fact as he describes what chemical weapons will do. “They will prevent people eating and drinking the local water, and they won’t be able to sleep in their beds,” he says. “They will force people to leave their homes and make them uninhabitable until they have been decontaminated.”

As for the concern about international reaction, he assures Mr. Douri that only he will order the attacks. “I don’t know if you know this, Comrade Izzat, but chemical weapons are not used unless I personally give the orders,” he says.

When Iraq resumed the genocide trial of its former leaders on Monday, Mr. Hussein’s high-backed, black vinyl seat at the front of the dock was left ominously empty. Something about the six remaining defendants, including Ali Hassan al-Majid, Mr. Hussein’s cousin, who was known among Iraqis as Chemical Ali for his role in overseeing the attacks on the Kurds, suggested that they felt orphaned without the commanding presence of Mr. Hussein.

Gone were the cries of “Mr. President!” as Mr. Hussein entered the court to join them in the dock, and gone, too, was the emboldened posture they took from Mr. Hussein, with frequent challenges and insults to witnesses, prosecutors and judges. Perhaps Mr. Hussein’s hanging, and the humiliating taunts he endured from witnesses and guards as he stood with the noose around his neck, had broken the last illusions among those surviving him that they could somehow evade a similar end.

When the chief judge, Muhammad Ureibi al-Khalifa, began the proceedings by abruptly cutting the microphone as Mr. Majid stood to intone a prayer in memory of Mr. Hussein, the former dictator seemed to be judicially, as well as existentially, dead. But the anticlimactic beginning swiftly gave way to the most astonishing day of testimony since Mr. Hussein and his associates went on trial. Once more, it was Mr. Hussein, this time in an involuntary orgy of self-incrimination, who dominated.

In the sequence of scratchy recordings — some with the dialogue quite clear, some barely decipherable — Mr. Hussein repeatedly showed the ready resort to brutality that seized Iraq with fear during his 24 years in power. At one point, he is heard telling a general to summarily execute field commanders who fail to adequately prepare their defenses against Kurdish guerrilla raids.

He cites as a precedent “some commanders who abandoned their positions when they found themselves in an awkward situation, who deserved to have their necks cut, and did.” At another point, he tells subordinates to execute any internal security officials who fail to stop Iraqi soldiers sneaking home from the Iranian front on fake passes.

“If you arrest any of them, cut off their heads,” he says. “Show no mercy. They only joined the security to avoid having to join the army and fight Iran.”

One recording revealed, more clearly than anything before, Mr. Hussein’s personal involvement in covering up Iraq’s attempts to acquire unconventional weapons, the program that ultimately led to President Bush sending American troops to overthrow him. Talking to the general who led Iraq’s dealings with United Nations weapons inspectors until weeks before the 2003 invasion, he counseled caution in the figures being divulged on the extent of Iraq’s raw supplies for chemical weapons, so as to disguise the use of unaccounted-for chemicals in the attacks on the Kurds.

But it was Mr. Hussein’s chilling discussion of the power of chemical weapons against civilians that brought prosecutors and judges to the verge of tears, and seemed to shock the remaining defendants. One of the recordings featured an unidentified military officer telling Mr. Hussein that a plan was under development for having Soviet-built aircraft carry containers, packed with up to 50 napalm bombs each, which would be rolled out of the cargo deck and dropped on Kurdish towns.

“Yes, in areas where you have concentrated populations, that would be useful,” Mr. Hussein replies.

Another recording involves a General Thabit, who was not further identified by the prosecutors, telling Mr. Hussein that his forces had used chemical weapons in the northern sector of Kurdistan, but that “our supplies of the weapons were low, and we didn’t make good use of the ones we had.” The general notes that Iraq’s production of mustard gas and sarin, a nerve gas, was “very low,” and says they should be used sparingly. “We’re keeping what we have for the future,” he says.

Before they recovered enough to begin pleading their innocence, Mr. Hussein’s erstwhile companions in the dock buried their heads in their hands, gazed at the floor, and glanced furtively toward TV cameras transmitting live coverage of the trial. Mr. Majid shifted uneasily in his seat as one recording had him telling officials to warn Kurdish refugees that they would be attacked with chemical weapons if they attempted to return to their villages.

The prosecutor, Munkith al-Faroun, came to court as almost the only person who attended Mr. Hussein’s execution on Dec. 30 to emerge with an unsullied reputation. It was he, as he and others confirmed, who attempted to halt the taunts hurled at Mr. Hussein as he stood with the noose around his neck, moments before the trapdoor opened. Over the hubbub, an illicit camera phone recording showed Mr. Faroun calling out for silence, “Please, no!” he said. “The man is about to be executed.”

But back in the courtroom, Mr. Faroun became, again, the man holding Mr. Hussein to account and, in one poignant moment, counseling restraint among those who have expressed outrage over the manner of the former ruler’s execution. That moment came after the court watched television images taken after the Halabja attack, which more than any other event focused world attention on the atrocities committed under Mr. Hussein.

The video showed the horrors: a father wailing in grief as he found his children lying along a street littered with bodies; dead mothers clutching gas-choked infants to their breasts in swaddling clothes; young sisters embracing each other in death; and trucks piled high with civilian bodies. “I ask the whole world to look at these images, especially those who are crying right now,” Mr. Faroun said, referring to the outpouring of sympathy for Mr. Hussein.

The recordings played at Monday’s trial session, seemingly eliminating any doubt about Mr. Hussein’s role in the attacks on the Kurds, may go a long way to answering criticism of the government for executing him before he was judged for the worst of his crimes.

American justice department lawyers, who have done much of the behind-the-scenes work in sifting tons of documents and other evidence gathered after the invasion of 2003, had never hinted that they held the trump card, judicially and historically, that the audio recordings seem likely to be.
203 2007-01-09 Investors drove up the stock of the NCR Corporation, the largest maker of automated teller machines and airport check-in kiosks, yesterday after the company said it would spin off its data management business, Teradata, in what it expects to be a tax-free deal.

Shares of NCR rose as much as 7.1 percent, to $45.42, before falling back to close at $43.79, an increase of $1.39, or 3.3 percent, over Friday’s close. About 5.7 million shares changed hands, more than five times the recent average volume of trading. NCR’s highest close in the last year was Nov. 21, when shares reached $44.58.

Teradata accounts for almost a fourth of NCR’s annual revenue of more than $6 billion. But when it is split off in six to nine months, analysts said, it is likely to account for more than half the company’s value because of its potential to grow faster than the equipment and servicing that NCR will retain.

William R. Nuti, who has been chief executive since August 2005, said the fundamental reason for splitting the company was that “NCR has, within the company today, two very different kinds of business opportunities.”

NCR’s employment contracts with Mr. Nuti and some other senior executives include change-of-control provisions that can cause their stock options to vest immediately.
204 2007-01-09 Jimbo Fisher, the offensive coordinator at Louisiana State, took the same job at Florida State yesterday.

Seminoles Coach Bobby Bowden gave the job to Fisher, 41, to turn around an offense that has had decreasing production in recent years under the direction of Bowden’s youngest son, Jeff.

“His ability to put in an offense and adjust as the season goes along is second to none,” Bobby Bowden said about Fisher. “He brings the experience and attitude that I was looking for in a coordinator.”

A West Virginia native, Fisher spent the past seven seasons at L.S.U., where the offense set 13 team records under his direction. He will also take over as quarterbacks coach for Daryl Dickey, whose contract was not renewed.

“The opportunity to coach at Florida State and to grow as a coach under Coach Bowden was one that I could not pass up,” said Fisher, who signed a three-year contract with a starting base salary of $215,000.
205 2007-01-09 New York City stands to lose access to a $1 billion pool of federal homeland security money to finance improved communications between public safety agencies because its system does not meet federal guidelines, according to a letter that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg sent yesterday to Bush administration officials and Congressional leaders.

Last month, Mr. Bloomberg wrote, Congress approved the release of $1 billion for state and local grants to develop systems allowing radio communications between agencies on a dedicated frequency. New York has spent the past decade developing such a system for use in the 400 megahertz band of the spectrum, while federal regulations call for the systems to operate on the 700 megahertz band.

“Congress should not use that re-allocation to compel New York City and other localities to invest (or over-invest) in that particular portion of the spectrum,” wrote Mr. Bloomberg, who plans to testify on the matter today before the Senate Homeland Security Committee.

The letter also says that the Federal Communications Commission granted the city a waiver to use UHF Channel 16, at 482 megahertz to 488 megahertz, in 1995, and assigned the channel to the New York metropolitan area for public safety communications use three years ago.

“This spectrum has been invaluable, as it provides the most effective coverage and performance for police and firefighter communications in New York City’s dense in-building and underground urban environment,” Mr. Bloomberg wrote.

Russ Knocke, a homeland security spokesman, said the department shared Mr. Bloomberg’s view that each major city has its own singular challenges in achieving full communications ability between emergency response agencies. He added that homeland security officials anticipate “continuing to work closely” with the administration in addressing those challenges.
206 2007-01-09 The London Stock Exchange, meanwhile, has until Jan. 20 to make any revisions to its projections and plans. Some analysts said they thought it might offer shareholders a big payout, which could add debt and make a Nasdaq takeover more difficult.

The Nasdaq offer, which was made Dec. 12, also illustrates a growing phenomenon in deal-making: a trend for hedge funds or temporary investors to enter the fray and possibly decide the outcome.

Since Nasdaq made its first moves on the London exchange, hedge fund investors have piled into the stock. They now hold an estimated 30 percent of the London exchange, which could give Nasdaq, which owns 28.8 percent, the more than 50 percent that it needs to take control.

Boards and executives from both companies must appeal to hedge funds, rather than relying solely on the votes of long-term investors, who generally side with their company’s board.

How the bulk of these investors will vote on the London exchange is still not clear. Shares in the exchange closed down 0.1 percent on Monday, at £12.82, a sign that many still think the London exchange will fetch a higher price than Nasdaq is offering. Samuel J. Heyman, an investor, said Monday in a regulatory filing that he had bought more stock at £12.82 a share and owns nearly 10 percent.

Other investors are showing some caution. Trafalgar Asset Managers bought call options, which permit the buyer to buy shares of a security at a certain price, for as low as £12 a share. The London exchange also said Monday that ING’s wholesale banking division had informed the exchange that it had reduced its stake to less than 3 percent.

The London Stock Exchange has paid cash to shareholders several times in recent years to fend off takeover bids.

Nasdaq was critical of that practice as well on Monday. “The L.S.E. board claims credit for proactive balance sheet management when 76 percent of capital distributed in the last three years was either a reaction to a third-party bid or an exceptional distribution,” its mailing to shareholders said.
207 2007-01-09 Wall Street overcame early losses to close higher yesterday as a drop in oil prices and a fresh round of acquisition activity helped raise investors’ confidence in the economy.

Gap, the clothing retailer, surged on a report that it was considering strategic alternatives for its business, which could include a sale. Some $6 billion worth of deals were announced, indicating that activity in mergers and acquisitions was off to a strong start in 2007 after reaching record levels last year.

Low energy prices also helped stocks reverse course from their earlier losses. Oil prices continued last week’s decline, as a mild winter in the Eastern United States eased pressure on heating oil supplies. A barrel of light crude fell 22 cents, to $56.09, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Investors turned their attention toward fourth-quarter earnings reports, which start today when Alcoa posts results. Several profit warnings from companies including the airline company UAL, the electronics maker Molex and the telecommunications firm Tellabs prevented indexes from gaining broader momentum.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.48, or 0.21 percent, to 12,423.49. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 3.13, or 0.22 percent, at 1,412.84, and the Nasdaq composite index added 3.95, or 0.16 percent, to 2,438.20.
208 2007-01-09 The police said they were searching yesterday for an infant boy whose mother reported him missing about 1:30 p.m. at Jacobi Hospital Medical Center. The woman, 28, whose identity was not released, first reported that a man had held a hard object to her back and abducted her son while she was outside the hospital, the police said, but they determined that there had been no abduction.
209 2007-01-09 The first “Silly Symphony,” based on an idea by Mr. Stalling, was “Skeleton Dance” (featured in the first “Treasures” volume of “Silly Symphonies”) with a cast of tap-dancing cadavers and low-flying bats. Though theater owners feared that audiences would be horrified by the macabre imagery, “Skeleton Dance” became an enormous success and helped to draw serious critical attention to the fledgling studio. Included in the new collection is “Hell’s Bells,” the immediate follow-up to “Skeleton Dance” and an even more impressive piece, featuring a jazz band of demons who play snippets from “Funeral March of a Marionette” in perfect synchronization.

“Hell’s Bells” is looser and funnier than “Skeleton Dance,” and it reveals the strong influence of the Fleischer school: a hipper, more urban style than Disney’s. The Fleischer brothers, Dave and Max, were big-city boys, whose cartoons were full of sex (the garter-snapping flapper Betty Boop was their leading character by that time) and often scored by leading jazz musicians, including Louis Armstrong and Cab Calloway. Disney, by comparison, was Guy Lombardo, piping sweet tunes to a public yearning for the pastoral.

It’s hard today to reconstruct the enormous enthusiasm that greeted the first Disney shorts. Compared with the work of his (then) better-known East Coast competitors, the Fleischers, Disney’s early efforts seem conspicuously lacking in draftsmanship and imagination; the Fleischers’ “Ko-Ko’s Earth Control,” from 1928, displays a sophistication in its humor and a polish in its execution miles beyond what Disney was capable of at the time.

But Disney, as Neal Gabler documents in his new biography, “Walt Disney” (Knopf), had a vision and drive that the Fleischers did not. Where Fleischer films were animated as silent works and then synchronized to what often sounds like an improvised music and effects track, Disney films exploited an ingenious method that allowed animators to time their work to prerecorded scores and spoken dialogue. The results were much more natural and created the convincing illusion that voices were issuing from the drawn figures.

Disney trumped the Fleischers again when he signed an agreement with the Technicolor Corporation that gave him exclusive use of a dramatically improved three-color process for a period of two years. Vastly superior to any other color process on the market, three-color Technicolor gave Disney’s films a visual pop unlike that of any others in the field. The color, draftsmanship and expressivity of movement seem to grow dramatically from film to film in the early 30s, as the shaded outlines and depth effects of “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” (1937), the first Disney feature, begin to emerge in films like “The Goddess of Spring” (1934) and “Three Blind Mouseketeers” (1936).

Mr. Gabler’s book portrays Disney as a driven perfectionist, often unhappy with the quality of his product, particularly after World War II, as the industry started to change and the money available to him began to shrink. That persistent dissatisfaction was not allowed to surface in “Uncle Walt,” the carefully constructed television personality that Disney displayed in his weekly appearances. In his television incarnation, wonderfully delineated in the five specials that Mr. Maltin has chosen for the “Your Host, Walt Disney” set, Disney seemed to become America’s favorite uncle, presiding over the 1950s with an optimism and a faith in steady technological advancement, seeming to summarize the decade more than anyone else.

If Dwight Eisenhower was president of the American people, Walt Disney was president of the American imagination, gently urging the country toward greater technological feats (and, as a reward, bigger and better toys). It is a position that has not been occupied since Disney’s death in 1966, despite strong campaigns by Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and others. Applications for the post are still being accepted, but it seems unlikely to be filled any time soon. Walt Disney Video, $32.99 each; all G, except “Your Host, Walt Disney,” which is not rated.

THE ILLUSIONIST A magician (Edward Norton) is drawn into the court intrigue of 19th-century Vienna. With Jessica Biel and Paul Giamatti; Neil Burger directed. 20th Century Fox, $29.99, PG-13.

EXTRAS: THE COMPLETE FIRST SEASON Ricky Gervais’s follow-up to “The Office,” centered on a lowly extra with great ambitions. Stephen Merchant and Mr. Gervais directed. HBO Home Video, $29.98, not rated.

IDIOCRACY Mike Judge’s “Office Space” flopped in theaters but became a cult favorite on DVD; maybe this new feature, with Luke Wilson as an “average American” projected 500 years into the future, will do the same. 20th Century Fox, $27.98, R.
210 2007-01-09 Two more Auroras were given the magic wake-up kiss on Thursday and Friday at the New York State Theater in Peter Martins’s “Sleeping Beauty.”

Jenifer Ringer returned to the role on Thursday with emblematic, lyrical splendor. Performing opposite Philip Neal as her stiffly dignified Prince Désiré, Ms. Ringer was all loveliness; she is one of those ballerinas who seem to tease and caress the music. In the Rose Adagio she held her attitude poses admirably, finishing with a striking unsupported balance.

On Friday Yvonne Borree was full of gumption as Aurora but lacked the fullness and the strength to keep up with the role’s demands. While she began reasonably well, you could sense her confidence and technique faltering; in the Rose Adagio her balances and positions were tenuous.

As the Lilac Fairy, Thursday’s cast featured the elegant Teresa Reichlen, who enhanced the role with her natural serenity as well as a newly acquired rigor in her technique. Making a debut in the same role on Friday was Sara Mearns, the image of refined wisdom and plush, velvet expansion.

Maria Kowroski, with her glamour and her flair for deadpan, lent Carabosse, the spurned fairy, a decided bad-girl allure. Melissa Barak, making her debut in the role on Friday, took a more full-bodied approach; her imaginative interpretation was full of wicked zest.

Other debuts included Savannah Lowery as Diamond on Thursday, and Rebecca Krohn the following night. Ms. Krohn lost her footing in a sweeping series of turns, and Ms. Lowery, with more sparkle, had difficulty coordinating her long, strong legs with her upper body.
211 2007-01-09 Moderate alcohol consumption appears to pose little danger to men with high blood pressure, and may even reduce their risk of heart attack, according to a study published Jan. 2.

Beginning in 1986, researchers followed 11,711 male health professionals previously given diagnoses of hypertension, using a questionnaire about diet, alcohol consumption and medical history every four years. The study, which followed the men through 2002, appears in The Annals of Internal Medicine.

During 16 years of follow-up, the study recorded 653 heart attacks, of which 279 were fatal. There was little difference between abstainers and those who consumed up to 4.9 grams of alcohol per day. But after adjusting for age, smoking, the use of blood pressure medication and other factors, men who consumed 15 to 29.9 grams a day — the equivalent of one to two drinks — lowered their risk for fatal heart attack by 30 percent. The more alcohol they consumed, the more they reduced their risk, by up to 60 percent for those who consumed more than 50 grams a day.

“In no way does this suggest that people should be drinking more than three drinks a day,” said Eric B. Rimm, a co-author of the study and an associate professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health. “But the results do suggest that people who have hypertension have a lower risk of cardiovascular disease if they drink moderately.”

Alcohol consumption also lowered the risk for nonfatal heart attack, but it did not affect the risk of death from cardiovascular disease or death from all causes.

The authors acknowledge that their data depends on self-reports, which are not always reliable. Dr. Rimm received an honorarium two years ago from the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States.
212 2007-01-09 In Louisville yesterday, Jurich told reporters that he intended to move quickly and had a “very short list” of candidates. While Kragthorpe is the first choice, the coach at U.C.L.A., Karl Dorrell, is another strong candidate. He, too, has ties to Jurich. Dorrell was the offensive coordinator and receivers coach at Northern Arizona from 1990 to 1991.

Don Tomkalski, the assistant athletic director for media relations at Tulsa, said Kragthorpe was at his campus office yesterday and had declined a request for an interview. Tulsa’s athletic director, Bubba Cunningham, also declined to comment.

Kragthorpe has turned down offers from the N.F.L. and other colleges out of concern for his family. He has made it a priority to spend time with his wife and three sons, all of whom travel with the team for road games.

“The first thing I’ll look at is where my family would live,” Kragthorpe said in an interview last year. “If the situation is not a good situation for my family, I don’t care how good a job it is, because my family is more important than football is.”

A group of Tulsa boosters has been trying to fend off wealthy suitors. Michael Case, the chief executive of a real estate investment and management group in Tulsa, started a fund-raising campaign with a goal of raising $500,000 annually over three years for Kragthorpe and his assistants. “As long as it’s just about finance, we’ll be able to keep him,” Case said last year. “If there becomes an opportunity where he thinks he can go win a national championship, I don’t know if we can keep him then.”

Because Tulsa is a private institution, it does not have to disclose how much Kragthorpe is paid. Tulsa has the smallest enrollment of the 119 Division I-A programs.

Jurich is betting that Louisville can meet Kragthorpe’s family considerations and his aspirations to compete for a national title. Jurich has been the architect behind the renaissance of Louisville football and has gone off the beaten path to hire coaches. Shortly after he arrived at Louisville in 1997, Jurich hired John L. Smith, who had been the coach at Utah State and who used a wide-open passing game. Smith, who was recently fired by Michigan State, brought with him to Louisville an innovative offensive coordinator in Petrino.

Before announcing Sunday that he was headed to the Falcons, Petrino compiled a 41-9 record and led the Cardinals to a Big East title and their first Bowl Championship Series victory, a triumph over Wake Forest in this year’s Orange Bowl.

He also brought in highly regarded recruiting classes and had a verbal commitment for the 2007 class from Matt Simms, the son of Phil Simms, the former Giants quarterback, and the brother of Chris Simms, a quarterback for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Matt Simms has told the university he remains committed despite Petrino’s departure, according to an individual with direct knowledge of recruiting, who also said he was not authorized to publicly discuss the team’s plans.

The success of football has helped Jurich raise $200 million for the athletic department; $16.5 million of that was spent on Cardinal Park, a multisport complex. The university built new dormitories and doubled the number of students living on campus. In July, Louisville signed Petrino to a 10-year, $25 million deal.
213 2007-01-09 Touting the fact that the new iPhone is powered by the same core OS X operating system that runs Macintosh computers, Mr. Jobs showed a series of applications including e-mail, advanced voice mail, photo collections and visually appealing Web searching all on a device that will be priced beginning at $499. That model will have four gigabytes of storage, and an eight-gigabyte model will be available for $599.

The iPhone will offer five hours of operating time and 16 hours of audio playback, Mr. Jobs said. The phone will be compatible with Cingular’s digital EDGE data network as well as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth networks.

Mr. Jobs defended the higher price of the new phone in a market where smartphone prices are rapidly plunging to $200 and below. He compared the iPhone, which has only one mechanical button on its surface, to smartphones from Motorola, Research In Motion and Palm. Rather than what he called “small plastic keyboards,” the iPhone will have a display that becomes both the keyboard and control panel, morphing to suit the current application.

“After today I don’t think anyone is going to look at these phones in the same way,” he said.

In addition to the Apple relationship with Cingular, which Mr. Jobs said was forged without offering even a peek at an early prototype, the iPhone will offer special applications from both Google and Yahoo. Users will be able to search use both services, receive mail from both Yahoo and Gmail as well as use a custom version of Google Maps.

Both Eric E. Schmidt, who is chief executive of Google as well as a member of Apple’s board, and Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo, came on stage to endorse the new handheld.

“I’m not a board member of Apple, but I would like one of these, too,” Mr. Yang said.

Regis McKenna, the veteran public relations specialist and corporate strategist who originally tutored Mr. Jobs in the art of high-tech marketing beginning in the late 1970s, said: “This compares favorably with the launch of the Macintosh. The price is high, but it will come down.”

The new phone will not go on sale at Apple and Cingular stores in the United States until June of this year, Mr. Jobs said, noting that he had chosen to avoid early public disclosure on a Federal Communications Commission Web site.

The iPhone will be introduced in Europe during the fourth quarter and in Asia in 2008.The user interface of the iPhone rests heavily on a high-resolution touch screen that makes it possible to use a finger to control the phone. It also has several more subtle features, including sensors that track light and movement to prompt the phone to control screen brightness and physical orientation and other aspects of its operation. For example, when the phone is placed next to the user’s face, the keyboard is automatically turned off.

One of the immediate questions that analysts and industry executives posed about Apple’s new product was why the designers eschewed the higher-speed Cingular digital cellular 3-G network. Mr. Jobs said later models would support additional networking standards.

Apple chose to name the new phone iPhone despite the fact that Cisco Systems, the network and consumer wireless company, has recently introduced a Wi-Fi-based phone with the same name. Mr. Jobs had been negotiating with Cisco executives over the trademark in recent days. Both companies claim the name.

Before he introduced his new phone, Mr. Jobs said that Apple TV, the digital video system that he announced as iTV last year, would be available for $299 in February. The device will store up to 50 hours of video and permit wireless streaming of digital content from a computer to a television.
214 2007-01-09 Last week during a news conference, the University of Florida’s president, Bernie Machen, took issue with Saban’s contract. Machen, who had hired Urban Meyer at Utah in 2002, said that giving Saban an estimated $32 million contract set a bad precedent. Yet a little more than two years ago, Florida gave Meyer an estimated $14 million over seven years to leave for Florida.

The coaches, who should be leading the charge for player compensation, are too often silent. On Sunday, Meyer wanted no part of the issue.

“Wow,” he said. “ I don’t know. I’d rather talk about Chris Leak. I don’t have any idea. I don’t have any thought.”

I was willing to let it go at that. But then Meyer began talking about the role that players played in his success as a coach.

“You take Alex Smith out of that equation at Utah, and I’m not the head coach at Florida,” he said, referring to his former quarterback at Utah. Smith just completed his second season with the 49ers.

“I am the first one to recognize that. And our staff is the first one to recognize that. You take Chris Leak and Tim Tebow out or Percy Harvin out or Ray McDonald out, and we are at some other bowl and I am already home and jogging and getting back in shape and those type of things.”

Instead, Meyer basks in the glow of his first national championship.

Given that, don’t the players deserve a financial bonus for helping a program reach a bowl game?

If the coach is rewarded for leading his team to a bowl, his players should be rewarded (and not in coffee mugs) for helping get him there. If a program reaches a bowl that pays in excess of $1 million, players should share in the bonanza. Coaches preach the gospel of team and teamwork, family and unity; they talk about pulling for one another — until the talk turns to revenue sharing.

On Sunday, I asked Tressel what he thought about a stipend for athletes for helping their team reach a lucrative bowl game. Tressel responded like a politician.

“I think that would take a lot of discussion, and that’s what I think people like about the game of football, is that there are so many components that go on to the success of a team,” he said.

Tressel’s first title-game appearance at Ohio State was embroiled in controversy. In January 2003, the Buckeyes played Miami in Arizona. The Buckeyes’ star freshman running back, Maurice Clarett, complained about not being able to get back to Ohio for the funeral of a close friend. The issue revolved around paperwork that had not been completed in a timely enough fashion for the university to provide Clarett with the $300-plus plane fare.

Clarett made a cogent point at the time about the inequities of a system that pays out millions to universities during the bowl season while players get relatively little.

I asked Meyer the same question about giving players a piece of the bowl money.

“I am a big proponent of that,” he said. “I heard the story about Ohio State had the families that were going to get together to raise money. That’s nonsense. To think about that and all this money being shuffled around, and here is a star player whose mom can’t afford to go out there, that’s not right.”

A majority of college athletes are content to simply “be here,” to play for this college or that, from Florida to Ohio State, Maine to Middlebury, to play in the national championship game. But there comes a time when adults must step in and look out for the best interests of young people. That time is now.
215 2007-01-09 Introduced on Sunday: 2008 Nissan Rogue     Is it real? Indisputably....
216 2007-01-09 GAP HIRES INVESTMENT BANK -- Gap, the casual clothing chain that turned staples like T-shirts into must-have fashions and spawned scores of imitators that nibbled away at its business, has hired Goldman Sachs to explore strategies ranging from the...
217 2007-01-09 In her research on AIDS, Emily Oster has come up with three main conclusions:      One, as I described in this week's column, is that better-off, healthy Africans practice safer sex more than they once did -- much as Americans do. But poorer Afric...
218 2007-01-09 Moderate alcohol consumption appears to pose little danger to men with high blood pressure, and may even reduce their risk of heart attack, according to a study published Jan. 2.     Beginning in 1986, researchers followed 11,711 male health profe...
219 2007-01-10 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
220 2007-01-10 The financial regulators in the United States and several European Union countries have begun a joint investigation into whether banks' prime brokerages are taking too many risks as they increase lending to hedge funds. Officials from the Securiti...
221 2007-01-10 The Mills Corporation, the real estate investment trust known for off-price malls in outlying suburbs that combine entertainment and shopping, said yesterday that it was running out of cash and might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection, puttin...
222 2007-01-10 The NYSE Group and three other foreign investors have bought a 20 percent stake in India's biggest stock exchange, the National Stock Exchange. It was the latest move in a wave of consolidation sweeping global exchanges. The NYSE Group, which oper...
223 2007-01-10 The London Stock Exchange, seeking to fend off a hostile takeover by the Nasdaq Stock Market, got some more ammunition yesterday when it reported a 9.9 percent increase in third-quarter profit and forecast a "strong performance" in fiscal 2008. Ne...
224 2007-01-10 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
225 2007-01-10 As Mr. Jobs pointed out in his keynote presentation, the iPhone is at least three products all merged into one: a phone, a wide-screen iPod and a wireless, touch-screen Internet communicator. That helps to explain its price: $499 and $599 (with four and eight gigabytes of storage).

As you’d expect of Apple, the iPhone is gorgeous. Its face is shiny black, rimmed by mirror-finish stainless steel. The back is textured aluminum, interrupted only by the two-megapixel camera lens and a mirrored Apple logo. The phone is slightly taller and wider than a Treo, but much thinner (4.5 by 2.4 by 0.46 inches).

You won’t complain about too many buttons on this phone; it comes very close to having none at all. The front is dominated by a touch screen (320 by 480 pixels) that you operate by finger alone. The only physical buttons, in fact, are volume up/down, ringer on/off (hurrah!), sleep/wake and, beneath the screen, a Home button.

The iPhone’s beauty alone would be enough to prompt certain members of the iPod cult to dig for their credit cards. But its Mac OS X-based software makes it not so much a smartphone as something out of “Minority Report.”

Take the iPod features, for example. As on any iPod, scrolling through your lists of songs and albums is a blast — but there’s no scroll wheel. Instead, you flick your finger on the glass to send the list scrolling freely, according to the speed of your flick. The scrolling spins slowly to a stop, as though by its own inertia. The effect is both spectacular and practical, because as the scrolling slows, you can see where you are before flicking again if necessary.

The same flicking lets you flip through your photos or album covers as though they’re on a 3-D rack. All of this — photos, music collection, address book, podcasts, videos and so on — gets synched to the iPhone from Apple’s iTunes software running on a Mac or Windows PC, courtesy of the included charging/synching dock.

Movies are especially satisfying on this iPod. That’s partly because of the wide-screen orientation, and partly because the screen is so much bigger (3.5 inches) and sharper (160 pixels per inch) than on other iPods. The iPhone can get onto the Internet in two ways: using Wi-Fi, at least when you’re in the presence of a wireless hot spot, or using Cingular’s disappointingly slow Edge network.

That’s right: the iPhone’s exclusive carrier will be Cingular. (Nor is it an “unlocked” phone; you can’t use it with any other carrier.) At least it’s a quad-band G.S.M. phone, so it works overseas.

You can also conduct text-message conversations that appear as a continuous chat thread. And like any smartphone, the iPhone can download e-mail from standard accounts at regular intervals. In fact, Yahoo will offer free “push” e-mail — that is, messages will arrive on the iPhone in real time, just as on a corporate BlackBerry.

The iPhone is not, however, a BlackBerry killer. The absence of a physical keyboard makes it versatile, but also makes typing tedious.

Instead of raised alphabet keys, you get virtual keys on the screen. They’re fairly small, and of course you can’t feel them. So typing is slow going, especially for the fat of finger.

Fortunately, you don’t have to be especially precise. Even if you hit the wrong “keys” accidentally, the super-smart software considers adjacent keys — and corrects your typos automatically. If what you actually managed to type is “wrclme,” the software proposes “welcome.” You tap the Space bar to accept the fix. It works beautifully.

The real magic, however, awaits when you browse the Web. You get to see the entire Web page on the iPhone’s screen, although with tiny type. To enlarge it, you can double-tap any spot; then you drag your finger to scroll in any direction.

Alternatively, you can use a brand-new feature that Apple calls multi-touch: you slide your thumb and forefinger together (like pinching) or apart on the glass. As you do so, the Web page before you grows or shrinks in real time, as though it’s printed on a sheet of latex. It works with photos, too, and it’s wicked cool.

All of this is cooked up with Apple’s traditional secret sauce: simplicity, intelligence and whimsy. It’s these ingredients, not the features themselves, that inspire such technolust in Applephiles.

For example, voice-mail messages appear in a list, like an e-mail in-box; you can listen to them in any order. A proximity sensor turns off the touch-screen when the phone is up to your ear, saving power and avoiding accidental touches. The screen image rotates when you turn the phone to see, for example, a landscape-orientation photo. A light sensor brightens the screen in bright light. Finger smudges and streaks are inevitable, but are visible only when the screen is turned off. (They disappear with a wipe on your sleeve.)

The speaker is on the bottom edge, rather than the back where it would be muffled when you set it down. The optional, tiny Bluetooth wireless earpiece has its own little charging hole in the iPhone’s charging/synching dock — and it snaps in magnetically for convenience. Apple says that this earpiece “pairs” with the iPhone automatically, sparing you the usual ritual of pressing buttons in a baffling sequence.

Nonetheless, the iPhone won’t be the smartphone for everybody. You may well consider the Cingular exclusivity or the price a deal-breaker. You may also be disappointed that the iPhone can’t open Microsoft Office documents, as the Treo can (although Apple says it can open PDF documents), or wonder why it’s not a “3-G” cellphone that can exploit higher-speed, next-generation cellular towers as they arrive in the coming years. And you may worry about putting all your digital eggs into one losable, droppable, glass-front basket.

Note, too, that the software is still unfinished, and many questions are still unanswered. Will you be able to turn your own songs into ringtones? Will there be a voice recorder? Will the camera record video? Can you use Skype to make free Internet calls? Will the battery really last for five hours of talking, video and Web browsing (or 16 hours of audio playback)? Will you someday be able to buy songs and videos from the iTunes Store right on the phone?

At this point, Apple doesn’t yet have the answers, or isn’t yet revealing them.

What it does have, however, is a real shot at redefining the cellphone. How many millions of people are, at this moment, carrying around both an iPod and a cellphone? How many would love to carry only a single combo device that imposes no feature or design penalties? Considering that the cellphone is many people’s most personal gadget, how many would leap at the chance to replace their current, awkward models with something with the class, the looks and the effortlessness of an iPod?

Apple has done its part: it has packed more features into less space, and with more elegance, than anyone before it. The rest is up to the godmother.
226 2007-01-10 The House vote is far from the final word. The wage increase now goes to the Senate, where members of both parties have indicated they intend to tie it to tax breaks for small businesses to help offset any new costs from higher wages. Linking the two is seen by many as a prerequisite to rounding up the 60 votes needed to overcome a potential filibuster and open the door to negotiations between the House and Senate over a final bill.

President Bush has indicated he would sign an increase with related tax breaks.

“The 110th Congress is going to do the right thing and finally deliver a minimum wage increase,” Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said today. “And at the same time, we should help keep jobs available to America’s workers by helping small businesses absorb this wage hike.”

The minimum wage has not been increased since September 1997. Republicans have repeatedly rebuffed Democratic proposals to raise it in recent years, arguing that it could slow the economy. Under pressure from Republicans in swing districts, the leadership last year allowed a vote on an increase but tied it to a repeal of the estate tax, and Democrats backed by organized labor and other interests blocked it in the Senate.

Democrats made inaction on the minimum wage a mainstay of their arguments against Republican rule during the fall campaign. And they broke an informal agreement with Republicans to not trade partisan charges over pay increases for lawmakers by comparing the stalled federal minimum wage rate to regular Congressional cost-of-living adjustments. Trying to insulate themselves, Republicans last year agreed to accept no more pay raises until the minimum wage was increased.

Republicans criticized Democrats for blocking any efforts to change the measure and said the new majority was ignoring the potential costs for small businesses. “It is troubling that this bill gives no thought to softening the impact on our engines of new job growth,” said Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California.

But Democrats were determined to raise the wage floor with no strings attached. “Can’t you just give these workers an increase and be done with it?” Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and the new chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, asked his colleagues.

Despite historic opposition, two mainstays of the Washington business lobby, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business, made only a perfunctory attempt to influence the House vote, sending members letters of opposition but conceding the issue in the new House.

“It was a foregone conclusion,” said Michael J. Donohue, a spokesman for the National Federation of Independent Business, a group that represents small business. “Our lobbyists assessed that this wasn’t the best way to spend their energy.”

The vote was celebrated by organized labor, which is seeing its influence in Congress enhanced with the return of a Democratic majority. But John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., joined with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a long-time advocate of the wage increase, in urging the Senate to pass the measure without offsetting benefits for businesses.

“Business has enjoyed hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts since Bush took office, while health care, secure retirements and the minimum wage have all been on government’s back burner,” Mr. Sweeney said in a statement.

The measure would increase the minimum wage to $5.85 per hour 60 days after being signed into law. It would then rise to $6.55 per hour one year later and $7.25 after two years, bringing an estimated $4,000 per year extra to a minimum wage employee working full time.

“In the United States of America, the richest nation on earth, workers should not be relegated to poverty if they work hard and play by the rules,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, the House majority leader.
227 2007-01-10 A United States diplomat warned the European Commission against adopting rules that would impose emission controls on all flights landing at European airports, a signal that Washington may take legal action if the measure became law. The diplomat, John R. Byerly, left, deputy assistant secretary of state for transportation affairs, called the proposal “unworkable and unlawful.” The plan would force foreign airlines flying in Europe to pay for carbon dioxide emissions. Under the proposal, airlines would have to meet emissions targets starting Jan. 1, 2011, for all flights landing within the 27-member European Union. Mr. Byerly’s comments came on the eve of two days of formal talks with European officials aimed at concluding an “open skies” treaty to open up the trans-Atlantic aviation market.
228 2007-01-10 The London Stock Exchange, seeking to fend off a hostile takeover by the Nasdaq Stock Market, reported a 9.9 percent increase in third-quarter profit and forecast a “strong performance” in fiscal 2008. Net income rose to £31 million ($59.8 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, up from £28.2 million a year earlier, the exchange said. Revenue increased 11 percent, to £89.9 million ($173.5 million). The third-quarter results “support the board’s rejection of Nasdaq’s offer, which significantly undervalues the business and the exchange’s unique strategic position,” the exchange’s chief executive, Clara Furse, said. “Our strong growth prospects will continue to enhance the quality of our markets.” The exchange, Europe’s biggest equity market, released its earnings about three weeks ahead of schedule and two days before Nasdaq’s offer to pay £12.43 a share expires.
229 2007-01-10 A judge threw out a lawsuit filed by a man who insists the eccentric millionaire Howard Hughes left him millions in a handwritten will as a reward for rescuing him from the Nevada desert. Judge Bruce Jenkins of Federal District Court said Monday that the claim by the man, Melvin Dummar, left, had been “fully and fairly litigated” in Las Vegas in 1978, when a jury decided the purported will was bogus. Mr. Dummar, 61, insists that he found Mr. Hughes, bloodied, in a ditch in the Nevada desert in 1967 and was promised $156 million as a reward. Mr. Hughes died in 1976.
230 2007-01-10 It is the first example of the practical impact of a deal made last summer between the Legislature and the governor to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by about 25 percent by 2020. The transportation sector is responsible for about 40 percent of the state’s carbon dioxide emissions, state officials said, and cars make up about half that amount.

The 10 percent cut in emissions would be accomplished, experts said, largely through the use of alternative fuels, like ethanol and other gasoline blends, which would be provided by the refineries and other producers.

Hal Harvey, the environmental program director for the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, called Mr. Schwarzenegger’s plan “a really big deal.”

“In my opinion there are no successful rules anywhere in the world, except Brazil, to get carbon out of fuels,” Mr. Harvey said. “It is the big, hairy unmentioned problem with cleaning up carbon.” The European Union, he added, is considering a similar rule.

Environmentalists expected the order to turbocharge the market demand for corn-based ethanol and biodiesel fuels, and for natural gas, and to jump-start the introduction of experimental fuels like cellulosic ethanol, which is made from plant waste or nonfood crops like switch grass or wood chips.

The contemporary environmental movement links clear air goals to potential profits, and Mr. Schwarzenegger’s order, with input and support from lobbyists from Environmental Defense, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Hewlett Foundation, mirrors that approach. The companies or industries that stand to benefit financially from his plan include producers of corn-based ethanol, biodiesel and other, more experimental forms of renewable fuels.

Mr. Harvey and Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense, said they hoped that the California approach would be a template for other governments, whether in state capitals, in Washington or abroad.

The plan, Mr. Harvey said, is unusual in its focus on the so-called cradle-to-grave emissions associated with each fuel. In the case of ethanol, this can mean carbon emissions generated in the production of fertilizer, in the planting and harvesting of corn, in distilling the fuel and, finally, in transporting it to the distributor and burning it in a car.

Thus, two otherwise identical gallons of ethanol could have different greenhouse-gas ratings, if one were refined using carbon-intensive coal-fired electricity, while the other was refined using relatively carbon-light electricity from natural gas.

At a technical briefing on Tuesday, Bill Jones, the chairman of the board of Pacific Ethanol, a fuel producer, and the former Republican leader of the California Assembly, praised the effort as “the most comprehensive, well-thought-out plan I have ever seen.”

The governor’s staff said his mandate had the support of the oil industry. But that support was clearly not unanimous. Jay McKeeman, a spokesman for the California Independent Oil Marketers Association, which represents about 85 percent of the state’s fuel distributors, said the order required too much of his industry and not enough of the automakers.

“This initiative seems to focus strictly on fuels,” Mr. McKeeman said. “And of course a whole part of this equation has to be the technology that uses the fuels. That is at least as important as the carbon content of the fuel.”

The auto industry, in turn, believes California has asked plenty, and has sued the state over environmental rules. Charles Territo, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said the trade group had not taken a position on the proposal, but added: “Currently there are more than nine million alternative fuel automobiles on the road. In 2007, manufacturers are offering 60 different models for consumers to purchase.”

“Manufacturers,” Mr. Territo said, “must recognize that we need to reduce our reliance on foreign sources of oil.”

Mr. Schwarzenegger, who is recovering from a broken leg and appeared somewhat in pain on Tuesday, used his address to hit on other policy goals for the year, including changes to the state’s health care system, the creation of thousands of new classrooms and continued investment in infrastructure.

Calling California’s severely overcrowded prison system a “powder keg,” he said he wanted the state to consider prison construction and hinted at the establishment of a sentencing commission to address the problems that have led to overcrowding.

He also suggested that the Legislature consider an overhaul of the state’s redistricting system, which heavily favors incumbents.

“You will not benefit politically from this,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said. “I will not benefit politically from this. But the people will benefit from this.”
231 2007-01-10 The resolutions would represent the most significant reconsideration of Congressional support for the war since it began, and mark the first big clash between the White House and Congress since the November election, which put the Senate and House under the control of the Democrats. The decision to pursue a confrontation with the White House was a turning point for Democrats, who have struggled with how to take on Mr. Bush’s war policy without being perceived as undermining the military or risking criticism as defeatists.

“If you really want to change the situation on the ground, demonstrate to the president he’s on his own,” said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. “That will spark real change.”

The administration continued Tuesday to press its case with members of Congress from both parties. By the time Mr. Bush delivers his speech, 148 lawmakers will have come to the White House in the past week to discuss the war, White House aides said Tuesday night, adding that most met with the president himself.

While Mr. Kennedy and a relatively small number of other Democrats were pushing for immediate, concrete steps to challenge Mr. Bush through legislation, Democratic leaders said that for now they favored the less-divisive approach of simply asking senators to cast a vote on a nonbinding resolution for or against the plan.

They also sought to frame the clash with the White House on their terms, using language reminiscent of the Vietnam War era to suggest that increasing the United States military presence in Iraq would be a mistake.

“We believe that there is a number of Republicans who will join with us to say no to escalation,” said the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. “I really believe that if we can come up with a bipartisan approach to this escalation, we will do more to change the direction of that war in Iraq than any other thing that we can do.”

On the eve of the president’s Iraq speech, the White House sent Frederick W. Kagan, a military analyst who helped develop the troop increase plan, to meet with the Senate Republican Policy Committee.

But Republican officials conceded that at least 10 of their own senators were likely to oppose the plan to increase troops levels in Iraq. And Democrats were proposing their resolution with that in mind, hoping to send a forceful message that as many as 60 senators believed strengthening American forces in Baghdad was the wrong approach. Democratic leaders said they expect all but a few of their senators to back the resolution.

In an interview on Tuesday, Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, said he was becoming increasingly skeptical that a troop increase was in the best interest of the United States. “I’m particularly concerned about the greater injection of our troops into the middle of sectarian violence. Whom do you shoot at, the Sunni or the Shia?” Mr. Warner said. “Our American G.I.’s should not be subjected to that type of risk.”

But the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said Congress could not supplant the authority of the president. “You can’t run a war by a committee of 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate,” he said.

The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, criticized the Democrats’ plans. “We understand that the resolution is purely symbolic, but the war — and the necessity of succeeding in Iraq — are very real,” he said Tuesday night.

On Thursday, Democrats in the House and Senate will open a series of hearings on the Iraq war. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice are among those who have agreed to testify.

Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said that if he was not satisfied that Mr. Bush’s plan has sufficient incentives and penalties for the Iraqis, he might support a resolution or amendment to cap the number of American troops in Iraq.

“We have got to force the Iraqis to take charge of their own country,” Mr. Levin said at a breakfast meeting with reporters. “We can’t save them from themselves. It is a political solution. It is no longer a military solution.”

Lawmakers said Senate Democrats appeared broadly united in opposition to Mr. Bush’s approach during their private luncheon on Tuesday. While there were a few senators who favored cutting off money for any troop increase, a handful of others expressed uncertainty about challenging the president on a potential war-powers issue.

“We have to be very careful about blocking funding for any troops because we don’t want to leave our troops short-changed,” said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana.

Yet a large share of the House Democratic caucus supports a stronger stance against the plan. It remained unclear whether a resolution would satisfy constituents.

“Twice in the past 12 months the president has increased troop levels in a last-ditch effort to control the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Iraq,” said Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, who proposed a resolution opposing a troop increase. “Rather than cooling tensions in Baghdad, the situation has descended further into chaos.”
232 2007-01-10 CHáVEZ PLAN DRAWS ALARM Investors reacted with alarm in the United States and throughout Latin America as they measured the impact of a plan by Venezuela’s president, Hugo Chávez, left, to nationalize critical areas of the economy. Flashbacks of past nationalizations during another turbulent era, in places like Cuba and Chile, helped drive down the Caracas stock exchange’s main index by almost 19 percent. [Page A1.]

APPLE UNVEILS CELLPHONE With characteristic showmanship, Steven P. Jobs unveiled Apple’s long-awaited entry into the cellphone world, pronouncing its iPhone an achievement on a par with the Macintosh and the iPod. [A1.]

THE MAKING OF THE IPHONE Cingular and Apple may be fast-moving technology companies, but they took their sweet time putting together a deal to offer cellular service for the new iPhone device. Officials of the two companies began discussions nearly two years ago, in February 2005. [C1.]

INTERNET NEUTRALITY LEGISLATION Senior lawmakers, emboldened by the recent restrictions on AT&T and the change in control of Congress, have begun drafting legislation that would prevent high-speed Internet companies from charging content providers for priority access. [C1.]

MUSCLE CARS ON DISPLAY As Detroit automakers try to find a winning game plan to reverse their sliding market share, it is clear from the cars on display at the North American International Auto Show that they are trying to play up a distinct advantage over their Asian and European competitors — nobody, after all, can design the American muscle car quite like American car companies. [C1.]
233 2007-01-10 After his release, Mr. Takamoto contacted Disney Studios, knowing little about the animation industry but remembering the name from his Manzanar tutors. Asked to bring in a portfolio of his work, he was perplexed. “I had no portfolio,” he told Animation Blast magazine in a 1999 interview. “I didn’t have much of an idea what a portfolio truly was.”

Mr. Takamoto spent the weekend before his interview sketching anything he could think of — “from knights to cowboys,” he said — and filled up his notebooks. The results landed him a job as an assistant illustrator at Disney, where he worked from 1947 to 1961.

Mr. Takamoto moved to the Hanna-Barbera studios in 1961. Television work was different, but he proved equally adept at it.

“When he started at Disney, on animated films, he had more time and more freedom,” said Scott Awley, who worked as a character designer for Mr. Takamoto on the 1990s series “What’s New, Scooby-Doo?” and “Krypto the Superdog.” “When you do a Saturday morning cartoon, you have to cut out every nonessential line because pencil mileage is money.”

“Scooby-Doo, Where Are You?,” the original Scooby-Doo series, was partly the brainchild of Fred Silverman, then the director of daytime programming at CBS. Mr. Silverman wanted a highly plotted cartoon echoing the 40s radio show “I Love a Mystery.” Mr. Takamoto drew the original sketches for four human characters and a dog (widely believed to be named after Frank Sinatra’s scat-style singing in “Strangers in the Night”).

“There was a lady that bred Great Danes” at Hanna-Barbera, Mr. Takamoto said in a recent conversation with Cartoon Network Studios employees. “She showed me some pictures and talked about the important points of a Great Dane — like a straight back, straight legs, small chin and such. I decided to go the opposite and give him a hump back, bowed legs, big chin and such. Even his color is wrong.”

What is right about Scooby-Doo is his fearful courage. Like the Cowardly Lion in “The Wizard of Oz,” Scooby-Doo is always terrified, but always willing to get to the bottom of the mystery of the day with his four human companions, Fred, Daphne, the brainy Velma and the perpetually famished and clueless Shaggy, Scooby-Doo’s human counterpart (originally voiced by Casey Kasem).

In various incarnations “Scooby-Doo” has been on television almost nonstop since it began in 1969 and has spawned many spinoffs, including a live-action movie featuring a computer-generated Scooby in 2002 and a sequel in 2004.

Michael Mallory, author of the book “Hanna-Barbera Cartoons,” said: “Iwao gave us Scooby-Doo. Without him it would have been a little Airedale, and the show would have lasted one season.”

Mr. Takamoto is survived by his wife, Barbara; his son, Michael; and his stepdaughter, Leslie.

Beyond inventing indelible cartoon characters, he was known in the industry as a fixer. “Iwao’s hand wasn’t always the first hand that touched a character,” Mr. Awley said, but it was almost always the last hand.
234 2007-01-10 The one idea that he acknowledged was very controversial, yet also “bears the greatest potential,” was what he referred to as “asset monetization,” his preferred term for selling or leasing state assets and using the proceeds to reduce debt and “free up billions of dollars of cash flow for capital investments.”

Although he did not identify any assets, administration officials have long mentioned toll roads, like the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, or any valuable state land, like property adjacent to train stations and sports stadiums.

“In the property tax context, if we pay off the state’s credit card bills and reduce the size of our mortgage, we can restore our financial credibility, and use existing tax receipts to pay for services and tax relief rather than principal payments and interest charges,” said Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs.

Not surprisingly, the speech — his first State of the State address since he took office a year ago — dwelled largely on property taxes, an issue that has dominated the public agenda since Mr. Corzine delivered a similar address on the same subject in July.

Not long after the governor delivered his speech, Republicans, as well as some union leaders, were quick to criticize it.

Still, there was no mistaking a growing sense of urgency among legislators, from fellow Democrats and from Republicans alike, that substantive changes were needed or that the public would hold them accountable when all 120 lawmakers face re-election in November.

“It was a good speech, but we’ve heard it before,” said Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a Republican from Monmouth County who is a former state party chairman. “We’ve got to translate some of the sensible and obvious ideas that the governor has talked about into action. The governor needs to be a wild man on these issues.”

On a lighter note, Mr. Kyrillos pointed out that Mr. Corzine had delivered a similar message in his inaugural address a year ago — and on the same stage at the War Memorial. “We’ve got to stop meeting like this,” he said.

Mr. Corzine began his speech by striking a more conciliatory and self-deprecating tone than he has in the past. Wearing his trademark navy blue sweater-vest, he elicited more chuckles than usual with a smattering of inside jokes.

He also said he had learned that “Jersey girls don’t pump gas” — a reference to his short-lived and highly unpopular proposal to introduce self-service gas pumps to the state — one of only two that still shun the practice.

When Mr. Corzine listed some of the accomplishments of his first year in office — providing funds for stem-cell research, reforming the child-welfare system, supporting same-sex civil unions and creating needle-exchange programs for people who are H.I.V. positive or have AIDS — he drew several rounds of polite applause.

He also highlighted a number of other priorities, including renewing the Garden State Preservation Trust, which allows the state to buy up farmland and open space; addressing gang violence; and reconfiguring the formula by which schools are financed.

But at the 19-minute mark of his 46-minute speech, Mr. Corzine started talking about the intricacies of his property tax proposals and selling or leasing state assets, and no one applauded until almost 20 minutes later.

The Democratic-controlled Legislature has already missed a self-imposed deadline of Jan. 1 to pass a package of property tax reforms, and now legislative leaders say they will complete that task before Mr. Corzine’s budget address on Feb. 27.

Daring the lawmakers to keep their word, the governor warned that if they failed, he would ask the public to tackle the task at a special constitutional convention this fall.

The Assembly speaker, Joseph J. Roberts Jr., later praised the speech as upbeat and optimistic, said that he was encouraged by the specifics on property taxes, and offered qualified support for the concept of selling some state assets, although he said he was concerned about the prospect of higher tolls and diverting drivers to other roads.

“He zeroed in on what is the No. 1 challenge facing our state, laid out a road map in order for us to achieve it, and I don’t think he could have been more direct or more forceful,” Mr. Roberts said.

Mr. Corzine has been careful not to embrace the sale or lease of any particular asset. He intends to use the money earned to pay off the state’s multibillion-dollar debt.

While the Democrats, at least for now, embraced Mr. Corzine’s proposals, Republicans were sharply critical. The Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, said he was concerned that the Democrats would try to borrow their way out of operating deficits.

And criticizing Mr. Corzine’s fiscal management during his first year in office, Mr. Lance said the state was “worse off than it was a year ago” because of soaring property taxes.

“I don’t know how anybody can give the administration a passing grade yet in that matter,” he said.

Then there was the comic element to Tuesday’s speech. Many legislators, who were grouped on stage behind Mr. Corzine and could not hear the speech, could be seen craning their necks over one another’s shoulders to peek at the few advance copies in the hands of their colleagues.

“When somebody’s giving a 45-minute speech,” said State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., a Republican from Union County, “you’d like to be able to hear.”
235 2007-01-10 TORONTO, Jan. 9 — A provincial commission investigating the SARS outbreak in 2003 reported Tuesday that poor hospital infection-control procedures led to the epidemic in the Toronto area that killed 44 people.

“Systemic problems ran through every hospital and every government agency,” Doug Hunt, chief counsel for the commission, said at a news conference at which the findings were released.

The outbreak surfaced in February 2003, when a woman from the Toronto area contracted the virus on a trip to Hong Kong and returned home, dying soon after. Her son went to a hospital with an unidentified condition that was later diagnosed as SARS. While waiting for 16 hours in a crowded emergency room, the man transmitted the virus to two other patients, and it continued to spread, the commission’s report says.

Of the 375 SARS cases eventually identified in Ontario Province, health care workers accounted for 45 percent. Two nurses and a doctor died from their infections.

The ailment that came to be known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, was reported first in Asia in early 2003, though the first case may have been the previous November. By July, 774 deaths of 8,000 infections worldwide were attributed to it, according to the World Health Organization.
236 2007-01-10 A retired F.B.I. supervisor accused of aiding in Mafia murders is not immune from prosecution in state court, a Federal District Court judge ruled yesterday. The retired agent, R. Lindley DeVecchio, 66, was charged with four counts of murder last March in State Supreme Court. Prosecutors say Mr. DeVecchio, who was responsible for managing confidential informants, played a role in four killings between 1984 and 1992 by giving information to the Colombo crime family. In April, Mr. DeVecchio’s lawyers sought to remove the case to federal court, arguing that the evidence was subject to federal grants of immunity and that his defense was based on federal law. But Judge Frederic Block ruled that Mr. DeVecchio had not presented a valid argument.
237 2007-01-10 The why and the how of the Knicks’ improbable turnaround with a depleted roster depends on who is explaining it. But there is no debating the bottom line.

The Knicks had not won six games in any 10-game stretch since last January. They needed 17 games to earn their first six victories this season. Their record after the Dec. 16 brawl was 9-17. They are a more palatable 15-21 heading into Wednesday night’s home game against the Philadelphia 76ers — the Knicks’ first game with a full roster since the fight.

Lee, who averaged 10.3 points and 14.1 rebounds during the past 10 games, recalled the daunting feeling the Knicks faced after the suspensions were issued. They were about to play the Utah Jazz at Madison Square Garden, and had only eight players in uniform. In addition to the suspended players (Nate Robinson, Jared Jeffries, Mardy Collins and Jerome James), the Knicks were missing two injured starters, Quentin Richardson and Steve Francis.

“We had hardly enough guys to do two-line layups,” Lee said of the pregame warm-ups. “It seemed like we were rebounding, dribbling out and then dribbling back in to shoot our own layups.”

The Knicks beat the Jazz in overtime that night, with Lee passing to Marbury for a driving layup at the buzzer.

“I think you saw the true character of our team that day,” Lee said.

In the next days, the Knicks also beat Charlotte (in double overtime) and two Eastern Conference powers, Chicago (in regulation) and Detroit (in triple overtime). There was a sense among the players that the brawl, the suspensions and the universal criticism directed at them had made the Knicks a more tightly knit group.

Coach Isiah Thomas has consistently dismissed that idea, and he did again Tuesday.

“We didn’t need that fight to remind us that we were against the world,” said Thomas, who insisted that even before the fight, the Knicks “were right on the verge of starting to play well.”

“I don’t think it’s because you got into a fight or something like that that made you play well,” Thomas said. “A lot of teams get into fights and a lot of people get into fights, and that don’t make them play well.”

The Nuggets illustrate that point. They have lost 6 of 10 games — 5 straight at one point — since the brawl, despite acquiring Allen Iverson from the 76ers after the incident. The Nuggets’ incumbent star, Carmelo Anthony, has another five games left in his 15-game suspension.

Coincidentally or not, the Knicks’ resurgence has spread into the stands. In four home games since the brawl, attendance has averaged 18,732, with two sellouts (19,763). In the previous 14 home games, the Knicks averaged 17,579, with three sellouts (including the night of the brawl).

The dynamic at the Garden has changed so drastically that Thomas — who earlier this season chided fans for booing too much — now says the Knicks have regained their home-court advantage.

“Definitely looking forward to getting back in the Garden,” he said. “The last couple games we’ve played there have been exciting, the fans have been great. And they’ve given us a big lift and given us a big advantage at home.”

Knicks officials and the agent for Steve Francis denied a report that they were discussing a contract buyout. “That’s never been discussed,” Isiah Thomas, the team president, said in response to the report in Tuesday’s New York Post. Jeff Fried, who represents Francis, called the report “a false statement” and said that buyout talks “have never even been contemplated.” Francis is making $15 million this season and is owed $34.5 million over the next two seasons. Speculation about Francis’s future has gone on for months, because he has a large contract and has been an awkward fit next to Stephon Marbury. The speculation grew last week when Francis left the team to rehabilitate his sore right knee in Houston. Thomas said he expected Francis to return once the knee was ready. “If it’s up to me, he’d do it tomorrow,” Thomas said, adding, “We definitely want him back.”
238 2007-01-10 The Mills Corporation, the real estate investment trust known for off-price malls in outlying suburbs that combine entertainment and shopping, said yesterday that it was running out of cash and might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection, putting its shareholders at risk of losing their investment.

In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company, based in Chevy Chase, Md., also disclosed for the first time that an internal audit had found “errors caused by possible misconduct by former accounting and asset management personnel of the company.”

Mills, which owns all or part of 38 malls across the country, including Sawgrass Mills near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Potomac Mills in Prince William County, Va., has replaced its entire management team during the last year.

Wall Street reacted sharply to the latest disclosures. Mills shares declined 22 percent, to $14.82.

Mills faces a March 31 deadline, postponed from Dec. 31, to repay a $1 billion loan from Goldman Sachs. The deadline could be put off again, but analysts said another extension would be costly to shareholders.

Mills executives did not respond to a request for comment.

Mills’s problems have been mounting for the last two years as the company tried to expand rapidly by starting projects in Europe and buying traditional malls, like the huge Del Amo Fashion Center in the Los Angeles suburb of Torrance and the Southdale Center in the Minneapolis suburb of Edina.
239 2007-01-10 Alcoa said yesterday that fourth-quarter net income rose 60 percent on high metal prices and strong demand from aerospace, commercial transportation and building markets.

Net income for the quarter was $359 million, or 41 cents a share, compared with $224 million, or 26 cents a share, in the fourth quarter of 2005, the company said.

Income from continuing operations was $644 million, or 74 cents a share, excluding revamping and impairment charges.

Alcoa, which is based in Pittsburgh, said revenue in the quarter rose 20 percent, to $7.84 billion, driven by higher metal prices and strong demand for aluminum in the aerospace, commercial transportation and commercial building markets.

Analysts on average expected earnings of 64 cents and revenue of $7.64 billion, Reuters Estimates said.

The earnings were released after the market closed yesterday. Shares of Alcoa rose as high as $29.90 in after-hours trading after ending regular trading up 4 cents, at $28.52.
240 2007-01-10 THE PROBLEM Like many children, the little boy had learned to recognize common words from memory in kindergarten, and to sound out simple words — the first steps toward reading. Most children catch on fairly easily after this, figuring out how to use the meaning of words and sentences as a guide to greater fluency. But at age 9, when he was a third grader at a school in rural Massachusetts, this boy had never made that leap. While most children his age could read simple chapter books, he could not even read the short phrases in a picture book.

THE SOLUTION At the beginning of the school year, his teacher, Eileen Brennan, paired the children in his class and asked them to read aloud to one another. The boy would hesitate over the first unfamiliar words, Ms. Brennan said, and then take so long to read anything that he and the partner would both give up, or run out of time.

The boy refused to read aloud to Ms. Brennan, she said. He would chat, and describe the picture, then spend long minutes sounding out the first few words until she provided them so he could move on.

He had been tested for vision, hearing and reading disabilities, but none had been identified. His family was not highly educated, Ms. Brennan said, “not school people particularly, and I don’t think there was lots of time at home for reading.”

For a few weeks, the teacher watched the boy, getting to know him better. “He was not too swift academically,” she said, but was “attractive to his peers” and “well liked.”

“He was an appealing child,” she continued. “He’d come stand at the corner of my desk and chat with me about the foster kids who lived with his family. He talked a lot about his dog, something like a St. Bernard. He liked to draw. He’d walk up to my desk while I was busy with odd jobs, and slip a drawing he had just made for me onto my desk.”
241 2007-01-10 For Mr. Chandra, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, “Sacred Games” is the culmination not only of seven years of writing — he said he was surprised by the book’s length — but also months of Dashiell Hammett-style pavement pounding in the company of a crack crime reporter in Mumbai.

Like the police inspector, Singh, the soft-spoken Mr. Chandra, who could pass for a graduate student, followed cellphone leads down squalid lanes and up narrow flights of stairs lined with video monitors to have tête-à-têtes with real-life hit men with names like Hussain the Razor.

He met the Razor in his gangland den in south Mumbai. Though lacking formal education, the gangster spoke sophisticated Urdu and, Mr. Chandra observed at the time, wore very expensive European cologne. “It was an extraordinary detail to note about a gangster,” said Hussain Zaidi, the 38-year-old crime reporter to whom the book is dedicated.

Shortly thereafter, the mobster was gunned down after rendezvousing with his lover alone, a foolhardy undertaking that the police, with whom the Razor was cozy, had discouraged. Desire had triumphed over fear of death.

In Mumbai, where Mr. Chandra’s family still lives, he communed with “a yoga-practicing vegetarian hit man.” Indeed, “Sacred Games” is rife with characters with topsy-turvy moral compasses.

“They have the kind of power that can shut down a city, but they’re living in constant fear,” Mr. Chandra said. “So they construct a comprehensible moral universe for themselves. I asked one of these guys, ‘How can you justify murder?’ And he said, ‘Look, their death is already written,’ pointing upwards. Murder in their view is part of the divine play of the Lord.”

The book’s initial germ was a rackety shootout not far from Mr. Chandra’s family’s co-op. Like many of the city’s elite, he had some firsthand experience with extortion.

He comes from a creative, precocious family: his mother, Kamna Chandra, is a well-respected screenwriter best known for “Prem Rog” (“Virus of Love”), directed by the legendary Raj Kapoor, and “1942: A Love Story,” a film directed by Vidhu Vinod Chopra, Mr. Chandra’s brother-in-law. Mr. Chopra is married to the author’s youngest sister, Anapama, a well-known film critic.

His sister Tanuja Chandra’s first English-language film, “Hope and a Little Sugar,” a Muslim-Sikh love story set in New York right before Sept. 11, recently won best feature film at the South Asian International Film Festival in Manhattan.

Over the years, Mr. Chandra said, friends and relatives have routinely received extortion calls, most notably Mr. Chopra. Around the time “1942: A Love Story” came out, bodyguards appeared at the house. “Suddenly my little nieces and nephews were growing up with men with guns as part of the landscape,” Mr. Chandra recalled. “I felt freaked out the first week. But over time, it became ordinary. We chatted about cricket.”

Mr. Chandra arrived in Mumbai as a 15-year-old after a peripatetic childhood that included boarding school in Rajasthan. (His father, Navin, is a retired chief executive of an international trading company.) He was, by his own account, “a weird little kid” with thick glasses and a literary bent, gravitating first to science fiction.

“I was a nerd, to put it bluntly,” he said. “I would walk around in circles bouncing a ball in a trance and making up stories in installments in my head.”

Seeking a writing community, he persuaded his parents to send him to college in the United States, where he got his B.A. at Pomona College in California and then moved to New York to attend film school at Columbia. But in the university’s Butler Library one day, he stumbled upon an original 1840 edition of the autobiography of Col. James Skinner, a 19th-century soldier and adventurer.

“I saw it as a novel,” he said, and it became the basis for his first novel, “Red Earth and Pouring Rain.”

That book was written when he was a graduate student and under the tutelage of two important mentors: John Barth at Johns Hopkins and Donald Barthelme at the University of Houston. To supplement his income as a teaching assistant, the nerd morphed into a geek, developing a side business as a software programmer and writer. (Technology remains an obsession.)

Last year Mr. Chandra wed his longtime sweetheart, Melanie Abrams, a novelist and fellow faculty member, in a double ceremony: a Jewish one in Los Angeles, followed by a three-day extravaganza in Mumbai. He describes his long-distance courtship of Ms. Abrams, 34, whom he met at an Asian arts festival in California, as “a Victorian e-mail relationship.”

The couple spend about five months a year in India. Their home in Berkeley is an intriguing blend, with the requisite hot tub in the backyard and, in the front hall, a lotus-leaf menorah and a shrine to Ganesh, the elephant-headed divinity, “the god of beginnings, the remover of obstacles,” Mr. Chandra said.

Early photos of the extended family hang on the walls. In many ways, he observed, the story of his own family is that of post-independence India: the movement from villages to cities, the rise of the middle class and an obsession with education that laid the groundwork for a generation of accomplished writers from the subcontinent, including Salman Rushdie, Arundhati Roy, Jhumpa Lahiri, Vikram Seth and Kiran Desai.

With the notable exception of Ms. Roy, most are part of an intercontinental literary diaspora. The prizes and big advances snapped up by authors writing in English outside India has elicited public sniping among Indian intellectuals, prompting Mr. Chandra to take them on eloquently in a widely read essay in The Boston Review called “The Cult of Authenticity.”

William Dalrymple, the British historian who lives in New Delhi, said he believed that much of the criticism was unfair. Still, he said, the perception persists of “a bunch of middle-class guys who got out of India at the first possible opportunity living it up in Manhattan while passing themselves off as third world real McCoys.”

Though “Sacred Games” was released in India last summer, Mr. Chandra has yet to receive feedback from mobsters. But they welcomed their eggheaded Boswell — once he assured them that he was writing fiction.

“Even gangsters are aware of the value of spin,” Mr. Chandra said before heading out to a local Indian restaurant. “Invariably, their last line was, ‘If you ever have a problem, come talk to me.’ ”
242 2007-01-10 They considered an Apple-branded mobile phone service that would piggyback on the Cingular network, but rejected the idea. Then, a year ago, they settled on the final concept, an Apple-made phone for subscribers of Cingular, which is owned by AT&T.

Details of the negotiations and partnership were provided in interviews with Mr. Lurie and Eddy Cue, a vice president of Apple who is in charge of its iTunes service and oversaw the relationship on Apple’s end. They said they had spoken nearly every workday over the last two years and had, above all, one mandate: to maintain secrecy.

In keeping with Apple’s tradition of keeping silent about product development, they were fiercely protective of the iPhone, and colleagues and co-workers knew to say nothing about it outside their circle.

Mr. Lurie, in particular, said Cingular wanted to prove to Apple it could be trusted to keep the project secret so that it could be disclosed on the companies’ terms. “We were going to try to be like Apple and keep things quiet,” Mr. Lurie said. “A big part of the partnership is trust.”

The deal marries two companies with considerable heft, though with somewhat different goals. Cingular, the nation’s largest wireless carrier, hopes the iPhone will help it attract new subscribers and keep disgruntled ones from fleeing to competitors, like Verizon Wireless.

Apple, a major innovator in consumer electronics, hopes to break into the market for a product “everyone wants to use and uses every day,” Mr. Cue said.

But the potentially powerful combination of Cingular and Apple may not be as attractive to consumers as they hope, said Roger Entner, a wireless industry analyst with Ovum Research. Mr. Entner said the device would doubtless be state of the art, but that is not the whole battle. He noted that some laptop computers are cheaper than the $499 iPhone.

“Is it futuristic? Yes,” Mr. Entner said. “Is it affordable? No.”

Mr. Entner said phones costing $500 or more represent less than 1 percent of those sold in the United States. As a result, he said, Apple could initially be competing for the attention of a few million consumers who rely on advanced devices like the Treo from Palm Inc. and the BlackBerry from Research In Motion. “This sets a high bar for the high-end device, but on the low end it has no impact,” Mr. Entner said.

Mr. Jobs’s announcement had perhaps its most immediate effect in the stock market, where Palm’s shares fell 5.7 percent and R.I.M.’s dived 7.9 percent. Shares of Motorola, which makes a broader array of phones, fell 1.8 percent. Apple’s stock surged more than 8 percent.

Executives of R.I.M., based in Waterloo, Ontario, did not answer phone messages seeking comment on the iPhone. Nick Agostino, a technology analyst with Research Capital in Toronto, said the decline in the stock most likely reflected investors’ concerns about the fate of R.I.M.’s BlackBerry Pearl consumer model.

But that concern appears to center more on lost potential for R.I.M. in the broad consumer market than on any threat to the company’s core market of business users. The e-mail system the iPhone will use lacks the security features and other properties of the BlackBerry e-mail service, making it unlikely that business users will switch to Apple’s offering, Mr. Agostino said.

As part of its pitch to consumers, however, the Pearl is the first BlackBerry to include multimedia entertainment abilities and a digital camera. Mr. Agostino said that R.I.M. might have trouble attracting customers who are interested in those additional features. “A guy who has e-mail at the top of his list is likely to want a Pearl,” he said. “A guy who has e-mail fifth or sixth on his list is going to look at the iPhone.”

The relatively high price of the iPhone may also swing some buyers to the BlackBerry offering. T-Mobile, for example, is now offering the Pearl for $200 with some of its plans.

Marlene Somsak, a spokeswoman for Palm, said the iPhone did not appear to be aimed at the business market, “where e-mail and quick and easy text entry for messaging and Web navigation are a requirement.”

The iPhone has a touch screen that can display a kind of virtual keyboard. Ms. Somsak said Palm believed that full keyboards like those on its devices were essential.

Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies, a Silicon Valley consulting firm, said the iPhone would make current so-called smartphones obsolete. “It’s certainly going to cause them to go back to the drawing board,” Mr. Bajarin said, referring to phone manufacturers.
243 2007-01-10 Investors took quickly to the pitch, sending Apple’s stock price up to a record close, while shares of established cellphone makers slumped.

Still, the phone is a gamble on a new business for Apple. And even with its success with the iPod and a reborn line of computers, it has not been immune to marketplace failures, like the Macintosh Cube introduced in 2000.

But in his two-hour presentation before an audience of reporters, analysts and Apple employees at the Macworld Expo trade show, the parallel he repeatedly drew was between the new phone and the Macintosh personal computer, which had a vast impact on the computer industry when it arrived in 1984.

Noting that there are occasionally new products that change everything, Mr. Jobs said, “Apple has been able to introduce a few of these into the world.”

He said Apple had set the goal of taking 1 percent of the world market for cellphones by the end of 2008. That may seem small, but with a billion handsets sold last year worldwide, that would mean 10 million iPhones — a healthy supplement to the 39 million iPods that Apple sold last year.

“Steve can make the internal combustion engine appear to be something new and cool,” said Reed E. Hundt, the former commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. “He will provide a certain magic even to the 30-year-old cellphone.”

Mr. Jobs’s product tour de force was even more remarkable for its timing, as questions continue to be raised over the company’s stock options practices and his role in them.

“The truth of the matter is everything is fine,” he said during an interview after his presentation. “We’ve shared it all with the S.E.C.”

He acknowledged the controversy over the timing of some of Apple’s stock option grants, which Apple appears to have fanned recently with a disclosure to the Securities and Exchange Commission that contained a circumspect description of his role in the options award process.

“It’s raised questions,” he said, “but some of the journalism has been so off the mark. But I know the truth. It’s painful to read some of this stuff, but I know it’s kind of ridiculous and will pass.”

If he is in any trouble, Mr. Jobs showed no signs of it either on stage, where he was treated with great warmth by his audience of 4,000, or in an interview afterward in which he showed obvious delight in highlighting subtle industrial design features.

Mr. Jobs showed a series of applications including e-mail, advanced voice mail, photo collections and visually appealing Web searching. He promoted the fact that the new iPhone is powered by the same core OS X operating system that the Macintosh computer is based on, offering power-management features and advanced graphics abilities.

The user interface relies heavily on a high-resolution touch screen that makes it possible to use a finger to control the phone. It has features that are still more subtle, including sensors that track light and movement and proximity, to prompt the phone to control screen brightness and physical orientation and other aspects of its operation. For example, when the phone is placed next to the user’s face, the keyboard is automatically turned off.

Apple chose the name iPhone even though Cisco Systems, the network and consumer wireless company, has recently introduced a Wi-Fi-based phone with the same name. Mr. Jobs had been negotiating with Cisco executives over the trademark in recent days.

The $499 version of the device will have four gigabytes of storage, and the $599 version will offer twice that.

“At $499 and $599, it’s a pretty expensive deal,” said Rob Glaser, chief executive of Real Networks, whose online music store is a rival of Apple’s iTunes Store. “Steve is more focused on not cannibalizing iPod sales than on driving volume of phones. Those are not high-volume prices.”

Mr. Jobs defended the higher price of the new phone in a market where prices of so-called smartphones — those combining voice calling with Internet functions — are rapidly plunging to $200 and below. He contrasted the iPhone, which has only one mechanical button on its surface, with the BlackBerry and smartphones from Motorola and Palm. Rather than what he called “small plastic keyboards,” the iPhone will have a display that becomes both the keyboard and control panel, morphing to suit the current application.

“After today I don’t think anyone is going to look at these phones in the same way,” he said.

Apple’s relationship with Cingular began two years ago when Mr. Jobs phoned Stanley T. Sigman, Cingular’s chief executive, and proposed that they speak about a relationship. The two had an initial meeting in February 2005 in a New York hotel.

Apple spoke with other carriers before committing itself to its exclusive link with Cingular, Mr. Jobs said, but he would not give details.

In addition to the Apple relationship with Cingular, which Mr. Jobs said was forged without offering the wireless carrier even a peek at an early prototype, the iPhone will offer special applications from both Google and Yahoo. Users will be able to use both services’ search and e-mail services as well as a custom version of Google Maps.

Eric E. Schmidt, who is chief executive of Google as well as a member of Apple’s board, and Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo, came on stage to endorse the new hand-held.

“I’m not a board member of Apple, but I would like one of these, too,” Mr. Yang said.

Regis McKenna, the veteran public relations specialist and corporate strategist who tutored Mr. Jobs in the art of high-tech marketing beginning in the late 1970s, said: “This compares favorably with the launch of the Macintosh. The price is high, but it will come down.”

Despite the widespread comment and enthusiasm that the phone generated, there were also many questions about its design and about Apple’s strategy.

Some analysts and industry executives noted that the Apple designers had shunned Cingular’s higher-speed digital cellular network. Mr. Jobs said later models would have additional networking standards.

Others questioned whether the device would be as versatile as other smartphones if it was not truly open — that is, able to accommodate many programs from third parties, as personal computers are.

Mr. Jobs would not say how open the phone would be to other developers, but added: “I don’t want people to think of this as a computer. I think of it as reinventing the phone.”

He also said he was anxious to help protect the Cingular network from the kind of viruses and worms that bedevil the PC world today.

The phones will go on sale in June through Apple and Cingular (online, by phone and in stores). Mr. Jobs said the phone was being announced ahead of its availability to head off disclosure that might have resulted in the course of Federal Communications Commission licensing.

Although it will be a half-year before it is possible to know whether Mr. Jobs has another hit product, there was no shortage of enthusiasm based on the first glimpse today.

“It’s like they read our minds,” said David Myers, executive chef at Sona restaurant in Los Angeles and chief executive of the Food Arts Group, where the employees currently use the Treo smartphone from Palm. “This is the next step in not accepting poor design any longer.”

Before he introduced the phone, Mr. Jobs said Apple TV, the digital video system that he announced as iTV last year, would be available for $299 in February. The device will store up to 50 hours of video and permit wireless streaming of content from a computer to a television.
244 2007-01-10 McCARTHY--Andrew, age 68 of Plainedge, NY, (Native of Quilty, Co. Clare, Ireland) on January 8, 2007. Beloved husband of 43 years to Christina. Devoted father of son Andrew (Mary) and daughters Veronica (Gerald), Clare (Tommy), Christina and Marga...
245 2007-01-10 Democratic leaders said Tuesday that they intended to hold symbolic votes in the House and Senate on President Bush's plan to send more troops to Baghdad, forcing Republicans to take a stand on the proposal and seeking to isolate the president pol...
246 2007-01-10 A United States diplomat warned the European Commission against adopting rules that would impose emission controls on all flights landing at European airports, a signal that Washington may take legal action if the measure became law. The diplomat,...
247 2007-01-10 A retired F.B.I. supervisor accused of aiding in Mafia murders is not immune from prosecution in state court, a Federal District Court judge ruled yesterday. The retired agent, R. Lindley DeVecchio, 66, was charged with four counts of murder last ...
248 2007-01-11 Microsoft has so far failed to fire the imagination of the buying public since the Zune digital music player’s release last fall....
249 2007-01-11 American air strikes in Somalia miss their targets......
250 2007-01-11 New shows in New York include "The Scene," "You Belong to Me" and "Purity."...
251 2007-01-11 In an unexpected shakeup, the British music giant EMI Group has sacked its recorded music chief, Alain Levy, ahead of a broad reorganization aimed at reviving the flagging company, according to executives briefed on the plan.

The sudden move, expected to be announced today, follows a series of setbacks at EMI, the world's third-biggest music company, including a string of failed merger negotiations with a rival, the Warner Music Group, and the poor sales performance of the pop star Janet Jackson.

The exits of Mr. Levy and his longtime deputy, David Munns, are expected to be accompanied by a profit warning that will underscore the company's financial woes, according to the executives, who declined to be identified because they are not authorized to speak publicly. EMI's chairman, Eric Nicoli, is also expected to orchestrate a wider restructuring resulting in significant layoffs, they said.

An EMI spokeswoman declined to comment. Mr. Levy could not be reached for comment.

The ouster of Mr. Levy comes a little more than five years after he was recruited to bolster the performance of the company, which ranks last in sales in the United States among the four major music conglomerates. EMI's share of total sales in the American market dipped last year to 10.2 percent, from about 10.4 percent , according to Nielsen SoundScan Data.

While artists such as Norah Jones and Coldplay have sold well on Mr. Levy's watch, a handful of important management decisions did not turn out as planned. Mr. Levy's first choice to run EMI's Virgin Records label, Matt Serletic, failed to turn that unit around after several costly years. (Mr. Serletic was replaced in October 2005.)

More recently Mr. Levy and Mr. Munns brought in the producer Jermaine Dupri to head Virgin's black music unit and oversee the big-budget return of his girlfriend, Ms. Jackson. But her album "The 20YO" has failed to hold up on the billboard chart and so far has sold just more than 600,000 copies domestically. It is one of the worst sales performances of her career.
252 2007-01-11 Nimsoft, a Norwegian infrastructure software maker, raised $10.3 million from JMI Equity of San Diego and Oslo-based Northzone Ventures. The company will use the venture funding to increase sales and marketing of products in the fast-growing servi...
253 2007-01-11 Judging form the first bunch of comments we got about the iPhone, Mr. Jobs has another hit on his hands....
254 2007-01-11 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
255 2007-01-11 The three principals of the KL Group in West Palm Beach, Fla., a firm that operated many hedge funds that collapsed in early 2005, were indicted Wednesday, accused of orchestrating an extensive fraud that raised more than $194 million from at leas...
256 2007-01-11 Malden Mills Industries, the maker of Polartec cold-weather fabrics, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, less than four years after an earlier reorganization, and said it would be sold to the Gordon Brothers Group for $44 million. Gordon...
257 2007-01-11 Two former executives at an online advertising company, Fastclick, have launched Great Pacific Capital, a locally focused venture firm based in Santa Barbara, Calif. Managing partner Dave Gross, the founding chief executive of Fastclick, told The ...
258 2007-01-11 His Next computer, developed in the 1980s during his exile from Apple and originally intended for a college audience, was never able to break out of its small niche. (Despite being a commercial failure, the Next was used by Tim Berners-Lee to develop the original concept of the World Wide Web.) In a similar fashion, the Macintosh Cube, introduced in 2000, failed in the market despite being seen as an artistic breakthrough in computer industrial design.

Indeed, when the Macintosh Computer — which, like the iPhone, was designed by a small group shrouded in secrecy — was introduced in January 1984, it was received with the same kind of wild hyperbole that greeted the iPhone this week. But a year later, the shortcomings of the first-generation Macintosh cost Mr. Jobs his job at the company he had founded with his high school friend Stephen Wozniak nine years earlier.

In light of the iPhone’s closed, appliance-style design, it is worth recounting the Mac’s early history because of the potential parallel pitfalls that Mr. Jobs and his company may face.

Despite its high price of $2,495, the Macintosh initially sold briskly. But Mr. Jobs’s early predictions of huge sales (on Tuesday, in a similar fashion, he set a goal for the iPhone 1 percent of the world’s cellular phone market, or 10 million phones a year, by the end of 2008) failed to materialize.

The Mac’s stumble was in part because of pricing and in part because Mr. Jobs had intentionally restricted its expandability. Despite his assertion that a slow data connection would be sufficient, the gamble failed when Apple’s business stalled and Mr. Jobs was forced out of the company by the chief executive he had brought in, John Sculley.

In a similar fashion, Mr. Jobs is gambling that people will pay a premium ($499 or $599) for the iPhone and appears to have sought to limit its expandability.

The device is not currently compatible with the faster 3G wireless data networks that are driving sharp gains in cellular revenues in the United States, although several Apple insiders said the phone could be upgraded to 3G with software if Apple later decides to do so.

Moreover, Mr. Jobs also appears to be restricting the potential for third-party software developers to write applications for the new handset — from ringtones to word processors.

To be sure, this strategy has not limited the success of the iPod, which has become the defining hand-held consumer appliance and fashion statement in the last half-decade. The world of digital cellular phones, however, is rapidly becoming a simple extension of the world of personal computing. The leading handset makers — Microsoft, Motorola, Nokia, Palm, Research in Motion, Samsung and Sony Ericsson — are all pushing in the direction of making their devices increasingly look like PCs you can put in your pocket.

Mr. Jobs is moving in that direction, too, but it appears that he wants to control his device much more closely than his competitors.

“We define everything that is on the phone,” he said. “You don’t want your phone to be like a PC. The last thing you want is to have loaded three apps on your phone and then you go to make a call and it doesn’t work anymore. These are more like iPods than they are like computers.”

The iPhone, he insisted, would not look like the rest of the wireless industry.

“These are devices that need to work, and you can’t do that if you load any software on them,” he said. “That doesn’t mean there’s not going to be software to buy that you can load on them coming from us. It doesn’t mean we have to write it all, but it means it has to be more of a controlled environment.”

Software developers at Macworld Expo, the trade show where Mr. Jobs made the iPhone announcement, said they were taking a wait-and-see attitude about the phone. Several noted that much of the phone’s usability will depend on what added functions Apple decides to place in the version of the Safari Web browser that is part of the system.

If there is a Adobe Flash player available for the iPhone, and if it supports the Internet standards that are being widely used by the developers of a proliferating array of Web services, Apple’s decision to restrict software development may not matter.

Indeed, Mr. Jobs appears already to have made believers out of many industry analysts and independent researchers.

“He’s competing as he always has, as an integrated-consumer-device maker who lets other people deal with the rest of the stuff,” said Michael J. Kleeman, a former telecommunications industry executive who is now a researcher at the University of California, San Diego. “He gets to leverage other people’s capital investments.”

There are still a number of intriguing unanswered questions about the design of the system, and analysts said the real design of the device will not be fully comprehended until the iPhone is in users’ hands in June.

Is it a phone, a PC, or something entirely new? For instance, despite the fact that the phone has high-speed digital Wi-Fi capability built in, Mr. Jobs was coy about how that capability would be used.

During an interview on Tuesday, he said that Apple had not decided whether to enable a voice-over-Internet service like Skype — a potentially divisive issue for Cingular, the exclusive carrier for the iPhone, because it could come at the expense of cellular voice revenue.

Also, it is not clear how far Mr. Jobs will go in letting the device begin to replace the PC and Macintosh for users who have no need to sit in front of a desk or carry a portable computer.

It is possible that Apple’s chief executive has found a way to step into the chasm between the two worlds and profitably fill it.

“Apple is in a unique position to build a winning personal device that really fulfills the missing promise here,” said Michael Hawley, a software designer who is a former member of the M.I.T. faculty and a friend of Mr. Jobs.
259 2007-01-11 President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev appointed another loyalist, Karim Masimov, as prime minister, to replace Daniyal Akhmetov, who resigned. Mr. Masimov, a deputy prime minister and economist who has studied in the United States, promised continuity for his former Soviet state, where world powers are competing for access to huge energy reserves. His moves will also be closely watched by Western oil giants like Chevron, Eni and Shell, which have invested billions of dollars in Kazakh energy projects.
260 2007-01-11 A fisherman found a piece of a jetliner missing for more than 10 days in northwestern Indonesia, the first hard evidence that the plane carrying 102 people had crashed, a top search official said. The piece of the Boeing 737’s tail was recovered from the Makassar Strait off Sulawesi Island, said Eddy Suyanto, head of the search effort. He said the serial number on the tail piece matched the one given to the search and rescue teams by Boeing. No survivors or bodies have been recovered, he said.
261 2007-01-11 “It’s more than a risk, it’s a riverboat gamble,” said Leon E. Panetta, a Democratic member of the Iraq Study Group and former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. “There’s no question that under our system he’s going to be able to deploy these troops without Congress being able to stop him. But he’s going to face so many battles over these next few months, on funding for the war, on every decision he makes, that he’s basically taking the nation into another nightmare of conflict over a war that no one sees any end to.”

The White House orchestrated an elaborate rollout for the speech, including a presidential briefing for network news anchors before Mr. Bush addressed the nation. On Thursday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates are scheduled to appear at a news conference before testifying on Capitol Hill — a show of cabinet comity that might have been unthinkable when Donald H. Rumsfeld was still at the Pentagon.

Acknowledging that any mistakes in Iraq were his own and that Americans would face “trying hours” in the months ahead, Mr. Bush took pains to say he had consulted with members of Congress. But Democrats complained the consultation was perfunctory. Standing outside the White House after meeting with the president just hours before his speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi promised to force a vote on Mr. Bush’s plan.

That vote would be nonbinding. But in the months to come, Democrats could go further, tying Mr. Bush’s hands by setting conditions on the use of tax dollars, as Congress did during the Vietnam War and in Lebanon and Central America.

Wartime clashes between presidents and the Congress are a familiar thread in American history. But perhaps no president since Richard M. Nixon has so boldly expanded an unpopular war. Explaining his decision to invade Cambodia in April 1970, Nixon said: “A majority of the American people, a majority of you listening to me, are for the withdrawal of our forces from Vietnam. The action I have taken tonight is indispensable for the continuing success of that withdrawal program.”

Likewise, Mr. Bush has concluded that he must scale up American involvement in order to scale it down. The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, said on Tuesday that Mr. Bush hoped to “bring the public back to this war.” But the president’s aides are under no illusions.

“The reality is, conditions on the ground have to change,” said Dan Bartlett, counselor to the president.

In the meantime, some Republicans are already jumping ship. Moderates like Senators Gordon H. Smith of Oregon and Susan Collins of Maine, both up for re-election in 2008, oppose sending more troops to Baghdad, and on Wednesday, a conservative, Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, joined them.

After Democrats swept the November midterm elections, people both inside and outside the administration expected the bipartisan Iraq Study Group to provide Mr. Bush with a face-saving exit from the war. Mr. Bush made favorable reference to the study group on Wednesday night, noting that he had accepted some of its 79 recommendations.

But he rejected its central notion, that the United States should set a timetable for scaling back combat operations and mount a new diplomatic offensive to engage Iran and Syria. Mr. Bush concluded that those recommendations were not a recipe for victory, but rather, as he said after a meeting with Mr. Maliki in November, a recipe for “a graceful exit,” a path he did not want to pursue. At their meeting, Mr. Maliki presented Mr. Bush with a plan calling for Iraqi troops to assume primary responsibility for security in Baghdad, shifting American troops to the periphery of the capital. Instead, Mr. Bush concluded that the United States would have to take a central role, because the Iraqis were not capable of quelling the sectarian violence on their own.

In a sense, it is a predictable path for Mr. Bush. This, after all, is the same president who lost the popular vote in 2000, was installed in the White House by a 5-to-4 vote of the Supreme Court and then governed as if he had won by a landslide. And this is the same president who, after winning re-election in 2004, famously told reporters that he had “earned capital in the campaign, political capital, and now I intend to spend it.”

But no American president has been able to prosecute a war indefinitely without the support of the American public. With polls showing fewer than 20 percent of Americans supporting increasing troop levels in Iraq, Mr. Bush and those Republicans who support him know that the new policy will be a tough sell.

“The American people have no reason in the world to think it’s going to work just like the president paints it,” said one of those backers, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, “but I think the American people, in their usual good sense, are going to wait around for a while and say, ‘Mr. President, you’ve taken us down a lot of roads in Iraq, let’s go down this one and see if it works.’ ”

The question for Mr. Bush is just how long the American people, and their elected representatives, will wait.
262 2007-01-11 The measure would increase the minimum wage to $5.85 an hour 60 days after being signed into law, to $6.55 one year after that, and to $7.25 after an additional year. For a minimum-wage employee working full time, $7.25 would mean about $4,000 a year more than the current floor.

But the House vote is far from the final word. The legislation now goes to the Senate, where members of both parties have indicated that they intend to tie it to tax breaks for small businesses, to help offset any new costs arising from the wage increase. Linking the two is seen by many as a prerequisite to rounding up the 60 votes needed to overcome any filibuster and open the door to negotiations between the House and the Senate over a final bill. President Bush has indicated that he would sign a bill providing for a wage increase with related tax breaks.

“The 110th Congress is going to do the right thing and finally deliver a minimum-wage increase,” the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said Wednesday. “And at the same time, we should help keep jobs available to America’s workers by helping small businesses absorb this wage hike.”

In recent years, Republicans repeatedly rebuffed Democratic proposals to raise the minimum, arguing that it could slow the economy. Under pressure from Republicans in swing districts, the leadership last year did allow a vote on an increase, but tied it to a repeal of the estate tax. Democrats, backed by organized labor and other interests, blocked that proposal in the Senate.

During the fall campaign, Democrats made inaction on the minimum wage a mainstay of their arguments against Republican control. Breaking an informal agreement with Republicans not to trade partisan charges over Congressional pay, they contrasted the stalled minimum-wage rate and lawmakers’ regular cost-of-living increases. Trying to insulate themselves, the Republicans agreed late last year that Congress would get no more pay raises until a minimum-wage increase was approved.

On Wednesday, Republicans criticized Democrats for blocking any efforts to change the House measure by including small-business tax breaks.

“It is troubling that this bill gives no thought to softening the impact on our engines of new job growth,” said Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California.

But Democrats were determined to raise the wage floor with no strings attached.

“Can’t you just give these workers an increase and be done with it?” Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and the new chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, asked his colleagues.

Despite their longstanding opposition, two mainstays of the Washington business lobby — the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business — made only a perfunctory effort to influence the House vote, sending members letters of opposition but otherwise conceding the issue.

“It was a foregone conclusion,” said Michael J. Donohue, a spokesman for the federation, which represents small businesses. “Our lobbyists assessed that this wasn’t the best way to spend their energy.”

The vote was celebrated by organized labor, which is seeing its influence in Congress enhanced with the return of a Democratic majority. But John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., joined with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a longtime advocate of the wage increase, in urging the Senate to pass the measure without offsetting benefits for businesses.

“Business has enjoyed hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts since Bush took office,” Mr. Sweeney said in a statement, “while health care, secure retirements and the minimum wage have all been on government’s back burner.”

On the House floor, meanwhile, Speaker Nancy Pelosi beamed after the final vote as she brought down her gavel and Democrats cheered the lopsided margin.
263 2007-01-11 Under federal labor law, states may authorize “union shop” provisions under which employees who choose not to join the union must pay fees to support the union’s collective bargaining.

The Washington Supreme Court held in this case that requiring the union to receive affirmative permission before spending nonmembers’ money on election-related activity imposed an unconstitutional burden on a union’s right of free speech and association.

The state teachers’ union is defending that judgment, while the state and a group of teachers, represented by the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, challenged it in separate appeals. The justices consolidated the cases, Davenport v. Washington Education Association, No. 05-1589, and Washington v. Washington Education Association, No. 05-1657, for a single argument.

The Bush administration entered the case on the state’s side. Solicitor General Paul D. Clement said the Washington Supreme Court had “rigidly constitutionalized an area of labor law” that should be left to the “substantial discretion” of the states and the federal government.

Mr. Clement said that just because “as a minimum constitutional matter, the workers have to have an opt-out right” did not mean that a state could not go further and provide that the union could not spend nonmembers’ money on politics unless those workers affirmatively agreed.

That argument seemed to appeal to Justice Alito. “Why should the First Amendment permit anything other than an opt-in scheme?” he asked.

That was a “fair question,” the solicitor general replied, while at the same time carefully avoiding a full embrace of Justice Alito’s suggestion. The opt-in right should be an option but was not constitutionally required, he said.

Later in the argument, addressing the union’s lawyer, John M. West, Justice Alito suggested that it seemed only common sense to presume that employees who had chosen not to join the union were likely not to support the union’s political activities.

The presumption built into the court’s precedents is that nonmembers do support the union’s outside activities unless they declare otherwise. “Dissent is not to be presumed” is the phrase the precedents use. So it would be a substantial change in labor law if the presumption were reversed.

“Isn’t it overwhelmingly likely,” Justice Alito asked Mr. West, that if nonmembers were asked whether they wanted to “give money to the union to spend on elections, they would say no?”

Mr. West said he “absolutely” disagreed, explaining that the union used its political money to campaign for higher taxes to support local school districts and other purposes “that it has every reason to believe is in the interest of the vast majority of teachers.”

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. sounded unpersuaded. “Well, surely,” he said, “you don’t get to say, well, this is in your interest, whether you want to spend the money or not.”

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy was also critical of the union’s position. “You want us to consider this case as if the First Amendment rights of non-union members were not involved,” he told Mr. West on two occasions.

Washington is the only state with a campaign finance law that singles out labor unions for special treatment. Mr. West’s basic argument was that the law violated the First Amendment by discriminating against speech based on its content. The union is permitted to engage in legislative lobbying, for example, without first getting the nonmembers’ permission to use their money, but is barred from campaigning for or against ballot measures.

About 5 percent of Washington’s 80,000 teachers have declined to join the union.
264 2007-01-11 The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said yesterday that it would spend $2.4 million in an effort to reduce the euthanasia of stray animals in Austin, Tex.; Gulfport-Biloxi, Miss.; Philadelphia; and Tampa, Fla. Edwin J. Sayres, the president of the society, which is based in Manhattan, said it would commit $600,000 in each of the cities over three years to develop collaborations between public and private agencies.
265 2007-01-11 Aaron Gray, the Big East Conference preseason player of the year, had not scored in double figures in his past four games. His 26 points over that span barely equaled his single-game average for much of the season.

Here is the surprise: No. 7 Pittsburgh won those four games by an average of 21 points.

Gray broke out of his slump last night with 18 points and 7 rebounds in Pittsburgh’s 59-49 victory at DePaul.

Entering the season, the Panthers (15-2, 3-0) were expected to build around the 7-foot Gray the way they had with no other player in the six seasons since they became a conference power again. At 270 pounds, Gray is difficult to push around, yet he has a soft scoring touch that makes him a threat from 15 feet in.

“He’s a mountain in the middle,” Florida A&M Coach Mike Gillespie said.

So how is Pittsburgh, a team never known for its strong outside shooting, making up for the lack of scoring from its most dominant inside player since Charles Smith 20 years ago?

“I think this team has the best balance we’ve ever had,” Coach Jamie Dixon said. “This is the best outside shooting team we’ve ever had. I don’t think there’s too much argument with that.”
266 2007-01-11 Judith P. Vladeck, a prominent labor lawyer and ardent advocate of women’s rights in the workplace, particularly on college campuses, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan.

Her death was confirmed by her son Bruce.

Proud of her courtroom contentiousness, Ms. Vladeck brought a combination of showmanship and detailed analysis of salary histories and job performance to her cases. She took on potent opponents like major Wall Street investment firms, the Union Carbide Corporation and the City University of New York — and usually won, or settled for millions.

A chain-smoker known for working 11-hour days well into her 70s, Ms. Vladeck was a partner in Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, the Manhattan law firm that her husband, Stephen, helped start in 1948 and she joined in 1957.

As the women’s movement gained footing, Ms. Vladeck turned her attention to workplace discrimination. In 1975, she represented Val Winsey, a professor at Pace University who had been denied tenure. When the university’s lawyers argued that Professor Winsey was a troublemaker who devoted too much of her time to challenging the system, Ms. Vladeck responded, “The only way women are tolerated is if they are supine, silent and submissive.”

Those words were reflected in the New York State Court of Appeals decision that overturned a lower court ruling against the professor. “Those who fight for rights are often perceived as troublesome,” the appeals court said, “but the law does not require people to be supine.” Professor Winsey was reinstated with back pay and received her tenure.
267 2007-01-11 The three principals of the KL Group in West Palm Beach, Fla., a firm that operated many hedge funds that collapsed in early 2005, were indicted yesterday, accused of orchestrating an extensive fraud that raised more than $194 million from at least 250 investors.

The three, Won Sok Lee, Yung Bae Kim and his brother Jung Bae Kim, who was also known as John B. Kim, are accused of promoting the KL hedge funds as successful, when, in fact, some of the funds suffered losses every quarter of their existence.

For instance, from 2000 to 2005, KL told investors that its main hedge fund earned more than 100 percent each year. In fact, from 2003 to 2004, the main fund lost approximately $63 million in unprofitable trades, according to the indictment, which was handed up by a federal grand jury in the Southern District of Florida.

The collapse of the KL Group was the subject of an article in The New York Times in August 2005 that detailed how the three principals used their expensively furnished West Palm Beach office and high-tech trading floor to lure some of Palm Beach’s elite to invest in the funds. Prosecutors say that some money was also siphoned off for the personal use of the three principals.

The scheme was further carried out, court filings say, by paying a handful of early investors with money from new investors and using counterfeit documents to report investment returns falsely to mislead lawyers and accountants as well as investors.

John Kim, who faces 35 counts of various criminal charges, including conspiracy to commit wire fraud, mail fraud and conspiracy to commit money laundering, pleaded not guilty yesterday in Federal District Court in West Palm Beach. Calls to lawyers for Mr. Kim were not returned.
268 2007-01-11 Malden Mills Industries, maker of Polartec cold-weather fabrics, filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday, less than four years after an earlier reorganization, and said it would be sold to the Gordon Brothers Group for $44 million.

Gordon Brothers, a Boston-based firm that advises restructuring companies, will also assume an unspecified amount of debt. Any sale of the company, which employs 835 workers, is subject to approval by the bankruptcy court.

Malden, based in Lawrence, Mass., was forced to seek protection from creditors again because of the high cost of paying its American manufacturing workers and difficulty servicing its debt, the chief executive, Michael Spillane, said in a statement filed with Federal Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del.

As of Dec. 31, 2006, Malden had $60.6 million in assets and $131 million in liabilities, Mr. Spillane said. The company will continue manufacturing products at its plants in Lawrence and in Hudson, N.H., during the bankruptcy, Malden said in a statement.

In 1981, Malden invented synthetic fleece, which is used in cold-weather clothing. Its customers include the retailers L. L. Bean, the Timberland Company and North Face, Mr. Spillane said.
269 2007-01-11 Investors fretted over falling oil prices, but Wall Street still managed a modest gain yesterday after upbeat news from Alcoa and Apple.

The market began the session with fresh concern that oil’s decline would hurt profits in the energy sector and scare off money from sources like hedge funds that have helped push stocks higher in recent months. Adding to that sense was a profit warning from Chevron.

But investors eventually turned their attention to bullish news, like US Airways Group’s raising of its bid for Delta Air Lines by 20 percent, to $10.2 billion. They were also pleased by Apple’s long-awaited announcement of plans to offer a mobile phone, as well as by a solid profit report from Alcoa.

“There are good underlying economic fundamentals. The buyers are starting to get a little more courageous in coming off the sidelines,” said Al Goldman, chief market strategist with A. G. Edwards & Sons.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.56, or 0.21 percent, to 12,442.16. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 2.74, or 0.19 percent, to 1,414.85, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 15.50, or 0.63 percent, to 2,459.33.
270 2007-01-11 Running won’t help when you encounter each mission’s final supermonster or enemy V.S. These battles are brutal; I would die several times just figuring out a basic strategy and then die a few more times while I perfected my technique. Beating the big monsters can be utterly exhausting but also tremendous fun.

While the battles are epic, the story is less so. The animated cinematic sequences that separate missions are slickly produced and well acted but not remotely engaging. The story is generic, and perhaps is present not because the developers had a story they wanted to tell but just because they thought one was obligatory; you tolerate rather than enjoy it.

The gameplay, on the other hand, is a blast. Action is nicely varied, with all sorts of interesting enemies and levels that range from taking on a few “snow pirates” (the game calls the gangs pirates even though they don’t appear to have ships) as you explore a town to taking on dozens of giant monsters in a vast expanse of snow.

The game looks great and is beautifully designed. You can use a gizmo to scale buildings and mountains quickly, you can fire at boulders to make them fall on monsters, and you pilot various V.S. units that have a range of features but can all be equipped with rocket launchers, laser guns and other weapons.

Giant spiders are bad, but contestants from “American Idol” might argue that Simon Cowell, the talent show’s famously savage judge, is much scarier. Those who will never have the opportunity to be personally insulted by Mr. Cowell can now be insulted by his virtual representative in Blitz Games’ singing game Karaoke Revolution Presents: American Idol.

Previous attempts to turn “American Idol” into a video game have been abysmal, the game equivalent of those contestants whom Mr. Cowell reduces to tears on the show. This effort is much better, mainly because it is simply a new edition of the always entertaining Karaoke Revolution series shined up with some “American Idol” gloss.

As in any Karaoke Revolution game, you sing into a microphone along with a pop song like “Just the Way You Are” or “Crazy Little Thing Called Love.” A graph indicates whether you are hitting the notes correctly; the more accurately you sing, the better your score.

You are represented by a singer on a stage; an audience cheers when you hit the notes and boos when you don’t. You can customize your virtual singer with various clothes, and if you have the PlayStation 2 EyeToy camera, you can take a picture of yourself and the game will create a virtual you to dress up in the game’s fancy attire.

The EyeToy can also show your image on a big onstage screen. It allowed me to watch my virtual self in a zoot suit hamming it up in front of a big screen showing the real me slumped on the couch, singing off key.

The main differences from previous Karaoke Revolution games are the sets, which now mimic those of the TV series, and the judges, who will grimace when you hit a bad note or smile when you do well, and will then critique you. The judges consist of Mr. Cowell, Randy Jackson and some woman named Laura who looks a lot like Paula Abdul, who apparently didn’t want to license her image to the game.

The judging is interesting; judges can break down a song, noting that you started well but lost it in the middle or that you were generally on key but weren’t overly impressive.

Each critique is simply a few stock phrases strung together, but it is generally convincing unless a judge’s remarks seem contradictory or one judge blasts you and then the next judge says “I totally disagree” and also blasts you. The judging doesn’t make this Karaoke Revolution game substantially different from its predecessors, but it adds a little fun.

Once you’re been criticized, you will be told whether you’ve made it to the next round. You don’t need to sing that well to make it through the audition, but by the finals you will need to give a pretty solid performance.

As in the real series, the singer’s biggest challenge is Mr. Cowell, who hated almost everything I sang unless I set the judging mode to easy, in which case he would tell me I was just what the show needed. While he is realistically prickly, his insults are disappointingly generic. I’ve watched a couple of episodes of “American Idol” and recall Mr. Cowell having a caustic wit; but in the game he isn’t witty, he’s just mean.

Still, listening to him tell me I should give up singing forever did allow me to feel what many “American Idol” contestant have felt before me; a strong desire to feed him to a gigantic thermal-powered spider.
271 2007-01-11 Digital photographers and graphic designers with limited budgets will want to note Epson’s replacement for its venerable 1280 ink-jet printer, introduced in 2000. The Stylus Photo 1400, which will reach the market early next month, will cost the same as the older model — $400 — and will still use six inks, but they will be Epson’s new Claria inks.

Epson says these will produce prints that last 98 years, three times the life span of earlier inks. It also says the 1400 will print three times as fast, with the ink yielding three times as many prints.

An 8-by-10-inch photo at 720 dots per inch will take 173 seconds to print on the 1400, which may sound long but is fairly sprightly in the photo printer world.

Labeling of white ink-jet-printable CDs and DVDs is a feature found in many lower-end Epson printers, but the 1400 has a higher-precision mechanism — hence its 25.8-pound heft. Automatic photo correction will handle red eye, underexposure and color problems. The maximum print is 13 by 19 inches. MARTY KATZ
272 2007-01-11 So the Democrats are planning symbolic votes against more troops for Iraq.

Actually, when I and many other Americans cast our votes against this war, even before the prospect of escalation, they were for real.
273 2007-01-11 Re “Working Harder for the Man,” by Bob Herbert (column, Jan. 8):

The poor and the middle class are being hurt now, though they don’t seem to realize it. Ironically, the short-range thinking of the wealthiest will eventually hurt the wealthy also. They forget that their wealth depends on corporate profits, and the profits will turn to losses if there are not enough customers to buy the products.

If they take too large a slice of the pie, the squeezed middle and lower classes will have less and less money to spend.

A company’s performance is partly due to the chief executive’s decisions, but also to hard-working employees, loyal customers and a considerable amount of pure luck. If the rich try to have it all, they may end up with very little, and they will suffer for their greed along with the rest of us. Bruce Rollier

Bob Herbert painted the “pervasive unfairness” by which most workers in the United States are compensated with a broad brush.

Gains in productivity in domestic production have not turned into either higher pay or profits; they have been competed away by foreign rivals using cheaper labor, government support and technology acquired from Western companies.
274 2007-01-11 As Mr. Jobs pointed out in his keynote presentation, the iPhone is at least three products merged into one: a phone, a wide-screen iPod and a wireless, touch-screen Internet communicator. That helps to explain its price: $499 or $599 (with four or eight gigabytes of storage).

As you’d expect of Apple, the iPhone is gorgeous. Its face is shiny black, rimmed by mirror-finish stainless steel. The back is textured aluminum, interrupted only by the lens of a two-megapixel camera and a mirrored Apple logo. The phone is slightly taller and wider than a Palm Treo, but much thinner (4.5 by 2.4 by 0.46 inches).

You won’t complain about too many buttons on this phone; it comes very close to having none at all. The front is dominated by a touch screen (320 by 480 pixels) operated by finger alone. The only physical buttons, in fact, are volume up/down, ringer on/off (hurrah!), sleep/wake and, beneath the screen, a Home button.

The iPhone’s beauty alone would be enough to prompt certain members of the iPod cult to dig for their credit cards. But its Mac OS X-based software makes it not so much a smartphone as something out of “Minority Report.”

Take the iPod features, for example. As on any iPod, scrolling through lists of songs and albums is a blast — but there’s no scroll wheel. Instead, you flick your finger on the glass to send the list scrolling freely, according to the speed of your flick. The scrolling spins slowly to a stop, as though by its own inertia. The effect is both spectacular and practical, because as the scrolling slows, you can see where you are before flicking again if necessary.

The same flicking lets you flip through photos or album covers as though they’re on a 3-D rack. All of this — photos, music collection, address book, podcasts, videos and so on — are synched to the iPhone from Apple’s iTunes software running on a Mac or Windows PC, courtesy of the charging/synching dock that is included.

Movies are especially satisfying on this iPod. That’s partly because of the wide-screen orientation, and partly because the screen is so much bigger (3.5 inches) and sharper (160 pixels per inch) than those on other iPods.

The iPhone can get onto the Internet in two ways: using Wi-Fi, at least when you’re in the presence of a wireless hot spot, or using Cingular’s disappointingly slow Edge network.

That’s right: the iPhone’s exclusive carrier will be Cingular. (Nor is the phone “unlocked”; you can’t use it with any other carrier.) At least it’s a quad-band G.S.M. phone, so it will work overseas.

You can also conduct text-message conversations that appear as a continuous chat thread. And like any smartphone, the iPhone can download e-mail from standard accounts at regular intervals. In fact, Yahoo will offer free “push” e-mail — that is, messages will arrive on the iPhone in real time, just as on a corporate BlackBerry.

The iPhone is not, however, a BlackBerry killer. The absence of a physical keyboard makes it versatile, but also makes typing tedious.

Instead of raised alphabet keys, you get virtual keys on the screen. They’re fairly small, and of course you can’t feel them. So typing is slow going, especially for the fat of finger.

Fortunately, you don’t have to be especially precise. Even if you hit the wrong “keys” accidentally, the super-smart software considers adjacent keys — and corrects your typos automatically. If what you actually managed to type is “wrclme,” the software proposes “welcome.” You tap the Space bar to accept the fix. It works beautifully.

The real magic, however, awaits when you browse the Web. You get to see the entire Web page on the iPhone’s screen, although with tiny type. To enlarge it, you can double-tap any spot; then you drag your finger to scroll in any direction.

Alternatively, you can use a brand-new feature that Apple calls multitouch: you slide your thumb and forefinger together (like pinching) or apart on the glass. As you do so, the Web page before you grows or shrinks in real time, as though it’s printed on a sheet of latex. It works with photos, too, and it’s wicked cool.

All of this is cooked up with Apple’s traditional secret sauce of simplicity, intelligence and whimsy. It’s these ingredients, not the features themselves, that inspire such technolust in Applephiles.

For example, voice mail messages appear in a list, like an e-mail in-box; you can listen to them in any order. A proximity sensor turns off the touch screen when the phone is up to your ear, saving power and avoiding accidental touches. The screen image rotates when you turn the phone to see, for example, a landscape-orientation photo. A light sensor brightens the screen in bright light. Finger smudges and streaks are inevitable, but are visible only when the screen is turned off. (They disappear with a wipe on your sleeve.)

The speaker is on the bottom edge, rather than the back, where it would be muffled when the phone is set down. The optional tiny Bluetooth wireless earpiece has its own little charging hole in the iPhone’s charging/synching dock — and it snaps in magnetically for convenience. Apple says that this earpiece “pairs” with the iPhone automatically, sparing you the usual ritual of pressing buttons in a baffling sequence.

Nonetheless, the iPhone won’t be the smartphone for everybody. You may well consider the Cingular exclusivity or the price a deal-breaker. You may also be disappointed that the iPhone can’t open Microsoft Office documents, as the Treo can (although Apple says it can open PDF documents), or wonder why it’s not a 3G cellphone that can exploit higher-speed, next-generation cellular towers as they arrive in the coming years. And you may worry about putting all your digital eggs into one losable, droppable, glass-front basket.

Note, too, that the software is still unfinished, and many questions are still unanswered. Will you be able to turn your own songs into ring tones? Will there be a voice recorder? Will the camera record video? Can you use Skype to make free Internet calls? Will the battery really last for five hours of talking, video and Web browsing (or 16 hours of audio playback)? Will you someday be able to buy songs and videos from the iTunes Store right on the phone?

At this point, Apple doesn’t yet have the answers, or isn’t revealing them.

What it does have, however, is a real shot at redefining the cellphone. How many millions of people are, at this moment, carrying around both an iPod and a cellphone? How many would love to carry a single combo device that imposes no feature or design penalties? Considering that the cellphone is many people’s most personal gadget, how many would leap at the chance to replace their current awkward models with something with the class, the looks and the effortlessness of an iPod?

Apple has done its part: it has packed more features into less space, and with more elegance, than anyone before it. The rest is up to the godmother.
275 2007-01-11 BACK DOOR FOR CORPORATE E-MAIL -- A growing number of Internet-savvy workers are forwarding their office e-mail to free, Web-accessible personal accounts offered by Google, Yahoo and other companies. Employers, who fearfully envision corporate sec...
276 2007-01-11 By stepping up the American military presence in Iraq, President Bush is not only inviting an epic clash with the Democrats who run Capitol Hill. He is ignoring the results of the November elections, rejecting the central thrust of the bipartisan ...
277 2007-01-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Working Harder for the Man,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Jan. 8):...
278 2007-01-11 In an unexpected shakeup, the British music giant EMI Group has sacked its recorded music chief, Alain Levy, ahead of a broad reorganization aimed at reviving the flagging company, according to executives briefed on the plan.     The sudden move, ...
279 2007-01-11 The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said yesterday that it would spend $2.4 million in an effort to reduce the euthanasia of stray animals in Austin, Tex.; Gulfport-Biloxi, Miss.; Philadelphia; and Tampa, Fla. Edwin J. Sa...
280 2007-01-11 In a decisive vote, the House overwhelmingly approved a $2.10 increase in the federal minimum wage, a measure Democrats hailed as an overdue raise for low-income workers and a symbol of new leadership on Capitol Hill. Democrats said the increase o...
281 2007-01-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Democrats Plan Symbolic Votes Against Bush's Iraq Troop Plan'' (front page, Jan. 10):...
282 2007-01-12 China's imbalanced gender ratio at birth will soon begin causing social problems, a state agency finds......
283 2007-01-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
284 2007-01-12 Writing in the Bagger comments section, John surfs around and comes across some eerie parallels between "Little Miss Sunshine" and the shining cinematic achievement of "National Lampoon's Family Vacation": Yes, but really, how far can a dramatic r...
285 2007-01-12 The media preview is over, but the North American International Auto Show opens to the public on Saturday. Here is a breakdown of the hits and misses of the sohw, as I see them. What do you think? FAVORITE CONCEPT CARS 1. Toyota FT-HS: This hybrid...
286 2007-01-12 The German drugmaker Merck KGaA has attracted interest in its generic drugs unit from Cinven, Permira and the Texas Pacific Group, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Merck - no relation to the United States company of the same name - sa...
287 2007-01-12 After spinning off its Chipotle Mexican Grill business last year, the fast-food giant McDonald's is considering putting its Boston Market restaurant chain up for sale, The Chicago Tribune reported. Employees of Boston Market, whose menu includes c...
288 2007-01-12 Okay, that's a little excessive, but it is a true known fact that Mel Gibson will attend a Mr. Gibson's head. (Corrado Giambalvo/Associated Press) private screening of his movie in Mexico, but skip the public premiere. "Gibson employed Mayans for ...
289 2007-01-12 In an unexpected shake-up, the British music giant EMI Group has fired its chief of recorded music, Alain Levy, ahead of a broad reorganization aimed at reviving the flagging company. The sudden move, announced Friday, follows a series of setbacks...
290 2007-01-12 Whether you're among those who believe that hedge funds are Satan (much of the news media and the Connecticut attorney general) or savior (hedge fund employees and investors), it looks like they're here to stay, writes The New York Times's Jenny A...
291 2007-01-12 The Nasdaq stock market on Thursday extended by two weeks the deadline for shareholders to accept its offer to buy the London Stock Exchange after the New York bourse got a tepid response. The Nasdaq bid for the London exchange was to have ended T...
292 2007-01-12 China's stocks have surpassed $1 trillion in value after indexes more than doubled last year and the government encouraged the domestic listing of state-owned companies like Industrial & Commercial Bank of China. The combined value of shares liste...
293 2007-01-12 In the latest wowzer merging of the real and the fabricated, “Arthur and the Invisibles” takes actual human actors and, through a complex process involving Slim-Fast and a Maytag dryer, shrinks them to the size of bacteria so they can interact with the microscopic beings who live in your backyard along with Rick Moranis and his family.

Or something like that. The press packet for “Arthur,” a children’s film directed by Luc Besson, includes lots of tidbits on the magic that enabled the merging of live actors and a computer-generated world, but who can really keep track of this technogoo anymore, or get excited about it? The real question isn’t how these hybrid movies are made, but why. In this case, it’s a tad unclear.

The film begins in the conventional human world of the early 1960s, where Arthur (Freddie Highmore) and his grandmother (Mia Farrow) have troubles galore: Grandpa went missing a few years ago, and developers are on the verge of taking over the family homestead. Arthur manages to shrink himself to near-invisibility so he can enter a secret world and search for some gems that will solve all the problems.

At this point the film becomes computer-generated, and also resembles, at various times, “Honey, I Shrunk the Kids,” “The Sword in the Stone,” “Fraggle Rock” and assorted others. The computer-generated world is visually rich, but short on the droll humor that makes good children’s films bearable for adults. It’s also too frenetically paced and confusing for adults or children. But many of the voices are familiar: Madonna, Jimmy Fallon, Snoop Dogg, David Bowie, Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro and other famous names provide them. There are so many famous names that the question arises: Would this movie have been more enjoyable with the real humans instead of just their voices? Yes. Although that would have required Madonna to have a budding romance with a ’tweenage boy. Hmm.

Directed by Luc Besson; written by Mr. Besson and Céline Garcia, based on the original story by Ms. Garcia and Patrice Garcia and the books by Mr. Besson and Ms. Garcia; CG director, Pierre Buffin; director of photography, Thierry Arbogast; music by Eric Serra; production designer, Hugues Tissandier; produced by Mr. Besson and Emmanuel Prévost; released by MGM and the Weinstein Company. Running time: 94 minutes. This film is rated PG.
294 2007-01-12 Analysis: This statement reinvents history. The level of sectarian violence had built up steadily during 2005. The rise of sectarian and ethnic conflict was a major factor long before President Bush announced his previous strategy at the end of 2005, before the attack on one of the Shiites' holiest sites, the Golden Mosque in Samarra - an event whose importance the administration sharply played down at the time.

Analysis: This statement again tries to link Iraq to the broader war on terrorism. In reality, the risks are far greater that Iraqi Shiites and Kurds would end up fighting Sunnis, if not each other. Iranian influence would grow. Sunni nations would intervene on the Sunni side. The primary risk is civil war with broad regional implications, not a Sunni extremist victory.

Analysis: In reality, Iraq has about a dozen major cities, and there are severe problems in many, including Basra, Mosul and Kirkuk. It is far easier to measure the violence in Baghdad because there has been more killing there. But the kind of intimidation and softer forms of ethnic cleansing that are occurring across the country are equally important.

Analysis: This is simply untrue. Other factors - which could also destroy the president's new plan - have been more important. The real reason previous operations did not succeed was that the Baghdad government would not confront the Shiite militias and Iraqi forces were largely ineffective when they did fight. This forced American troops to act alone, and the result was often a substantial local backlash.

Analysis: This ignores the fact that reports have repeatedly shown that a significant number of commanders fear the United States will still not get effective support from the Iraqis, and will be perceived as the enemy by one or more sides.

Analysis: While admirably specific for a political speech, this plan seems far too optimistic. Iraqi Army units still have major effectiveness problems. The police still have ties to Shiite militias and death squads, and often are corrupt and poorly trained and equipped.

Analysis: This raises serious political issues since Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's advisers and the leaders of the powerful Supreme Council of Islamic Revolution in Iraq have gone on record as opposing an increase in American troops. The initiative will almost certainly mean a major confrontation with the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who can now draw on as many as 60,000 fighters nationwide.

In reality, the United States forces will not support or "help" Iraqi forces because the latter are too weak and lack motivation. The Bush plan will add up to 17,500 troops to the 15,000 now in the greater Baghdad area, and calls for three Iraqi brigades. But it seems unlikely those Iraqi troops will do much - the Iraqi Army deployed only two of the six battalions it promised for last summer's Baghdad offensive. Embedding an American battalion of 400 to 600 men in each of the nine military districts in Baghdad may help, but it is still United States forces that will do almost all of the hard fighting and dying.

In earlier operations, Iraqi and American forces cleared many neighborhoods of terrorists and insurgents, but when our forces moved on to other targets, the killers returned. This time, we will have the force levels we need to hold the areas that have been cleared. . . . Prime Minister Maliki has pledged that political or sectarian interference will not be tolerated.

Analysis: Mr. Maliki has been quietly put under intense pressure, but may or may not continue to comply. More important, he simply does not have the political power to give a green light to the cleaning of Baghdad. This has to come from the Iraqi people in the neighborhoods involved.

I have made it clear to the prime minister and Iraq's other leaders that America's commitment is not open-ended. If the Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises, it will lose the support of the American people - and it will lose the support of the Iraqi people.

Analysis: The plan creates a strong incentive for the elements hostile to the United States to keep up military pressure, and for sectarian Shiites to push the Maliki government to not cooperate.

Analysis: The very real risks in the president's new strategy do not mean it cannot succeed. They simply mean the odds of success are probably somewhat short of even. The president clearly expects much more intense urban fighting, and understands that a more powerful American military effort to "win, hold, build" in Baghdad could significantly increase our casualties. What is not clear is what happens if the Iraqi people turn against American forces or the insurgents simply lie low and outwait the United States in what is fundamentally a long war of attrition.

Analysis: Benchmarks are important, but there is no real schedule here and no clear picture of what the United States will do if the Iraqi government proves unwilling and untrustworthy.

Analysis: These are laudable and ambitious goals, but the practical question is whether the Iraqi government can and will meet them. Assigning Iraqis responsibility for security in Iraq's provinces has so far proved to be a cosmetic gesture. Past pledges on oil revenues, local elections and de-Baathification have not been met. The fact is that Iraqis already planned to spend this much money on reconstruction, and the United States will actually have to finance most new job creation efforts.

Analysis: These are potentially positive measures, but the statement disguises the reality that a coalition brigade has far more real combat power than an Iraqi division and would do most of the fighting. It also does not address the fact that at the end of December, the Iraqi Army had trained and equipped 132,000 men, but many had deserted (as have at least a quarter of new police officers), many of the remainder were ineffective, and even effective units were often largely Shiite or Kurdish and had mixed loyalties.

Analysis: The administration has had huge problems recruiting qualified civilians even for the present number of reconstruction teams and in effectively administering every aspect of its aid programs.

Analysis: Washington has been saying for two years that local leaders in Anbar were turning against the Islamist extremists, but there have been little more than token results. It is far from clear that 4,000 more American troops in the province will be enough to make a decisive difference.

Analysis: This seems to reject the option of regional diplomacy and to tie Syria and Iran into a common threat. It's a hard-line position that may be justified, but it will certainly drive the two countries closer to each other.

Analysis: Again, good goals. The question is whether major additional aid and support will be forthcoming. And there is no specific mention of any new Arab-Israeli peace initiatives.

Analysis: This promises more than history is likely to deliver in Iraq in the near future, and far more than victory in Iraq can deliver to our children and grandchildren.

Analysis: This overstates the risks of withdrawal or "defeat," just as those calling for force cuts and withdrawal understate them.
295 2007-01-12 “They’re getting this off on a non-existent thing that I didn’t say,” Ms. Boxer said. “I’m saying, she’s like me, we do not have families who are in the military. What they are doing is a really tortured way to attack a United States Senator who voted against the war.”

The exchange between Ms. Boxer and Ms. Rice came during a hostile Senate hearing on Thursday in which Ms. Rice, seeking to sell President Bush’s new Iraq plan to a skeptical Congress, faced an almost solid wall of opposition from both Democrats and Republicans. Ms. Boxer several times repeated the question, “who pays the price?”

Senator Boxer read excerpts from a radio interview with an American family that lost a son in Iraq. “You can’t begin to imagine how you celebrate any holiday or birthday,” Ms. Boxer said. “There’s an absence. It’s not like the person’s never been there. They always were there and now they’re not and you’re looking at an empty hole.”

Ms. Rice replied, “I can never do anything to replace any of those lost men and women in uniform, or the diplomats, some of whom ...”

Ms. Boxer cut her off. “Madame Secretary, please, I know you feel terrible about it. That’s not the point. I was making the case as to who pays the price for your decisions.”

During the hearing itself, Ms. Rice did not appear to take issue with Ms. Boxer’s comments. During the interview, she addressed them only in response to a question. But the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, had suggested earlier today that Senator Boxer’s comments were anti-feminist.

In the interview, Ms. Rice said that at first, she didn’t understand what Ms. Boxer was saying. “It didn’t actually dawn on me that she was saying, ‘you don’t have children who can go to war,’ ” she said. “Which seems a rather strange comment, to be quite frank.”

A number of members of Congress have children in the military who are serving in Iraq or are likely to do so, including Senators John McCain of Arizona and Jim Webb of Virginia.

Ms. Boxer’s comments and the claims and counterclaims about what she meant have captivated the blogs and received extensive coverage on Fox News and other cable channels. One blog, Time magazine’s Swampland, labeled it the “Womb Wars.”

Conservative blogs and commentators in particular were quick to seize the issue. “One Great Leap (Backwards) for Womankind,” read one blog, Bikini Politics. “They will be known by their Fruits,” read another, Macsmind, which billed itself as “Conservative News, Commentary and Common Sense.”

“I am deeply appalled by Senator Barbara Boxer’s cruel and callous attack on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice,” said Deneen Borelli, a fellow with an organization called Project 21, which describes itself as a “leading voice in the African-American community.”

“The debate should have been about the war in Iraq and not a platform to demean Secretary Rice,” Ms. Borelli said in a statement issued by the organization.

Some Democratic Senate staffers complained privately that Ms. Boxer’s exchange with Ms. Rice allowed the Bush administration to turn the tables on Iraq critics and sidestep the larger issue of the almost uniform opposition to the president’s new plan to send an additional 21,500 U.S. soldiers to Iraq.

During a wide-ranging interview with The Times before she was scheduled to take off for a week-long trip to the Middle East, Ms. Rice said she had expected the skepticism that she received from Congress the day before. “I’ve been through things like this before,” she said. “I know people want to express frustration; I know they wanted to express their skepticism.” But, she said, “Skepticism isn’t a policy.”
296 2007-01-12 The 2003 Medicare law prohibits such negotiations. The drug benefit is delivered exclusively by private insurers, subsidized by the government. These companies have negotiated substantial discounts with drug manufacturers.

Experts, including the Congressional Budget Office and Medicare actuaries, say they doubt that the bill would save money for older Americans or the government, because Medicare could not restrict the number or types of drugs covered.

Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, described the bill as “a solution in search of a problem.” The cost of the drug benefit is lower than expected, he said, and the number of drug plans available to beneficiaries - - more than 40 in every state - - is higher than expected, he said.

Each party used somewhat contradictory arguments. Republicans said the bill would not save any money because the government could not restrict access to drugs, but then they said the legislation would limit the drugs available to doctors and patients.

“A government bureaucrat will be empowered to determine what kinds of drugs our seniors have access to,” said the House Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri. “If the government could not reach a deal with a drug company, seniors would not have access to those drugs.”

For their part, Democrats said that Medicare was overpaying for drugs and could get much lower prices if it negotiated with drug companies as the Department of Veterans Affairs does. But Democrats said they did not want to give Medicare two of the most powerful tools used by the veterans agency: the ability to establish a “federal ceiling price” and a uniform list of covered drugs, known as a national formulary.

While sketchy about details of their proposal, Democrats were clear about their purpose: to help beneficiaries and to reduce the profits made by drug companies in the Medicare market.

Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the chief sponsor of the bill, said, “Those who insist that the sky is falling if drug companies negotiate lower prescription prices are arguing that those companies should continue to skin a fat hog at the expense of taxpayers and beneficiaries.”

Another Democrat, Representative Lois Capps of California, said: “We can vote in favor of large drug companies that have raked in record profits under the Medicare drug plan. Or we can vote in favor of our senior constituents. Common sense tells me that the big drug and insurance companies would not be so adamantly opposed to this bill if they did not fear that it could result in actual price reductions.”

Chances that some version of the legislation will emerge from Congress increased on Thursday when a pivotal figure, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said Congress should repeal the prohibition on negotiations.

The chairman, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said he did not favor price controls, but did believe that Medicare should be able to negotiate prices in “discrete areas where seniors need our help the most.”

But the White House, in a written statement on the House bill, argued that, “Government interference impedes competition, limits access to lifesaving drugs, reduces convenience for beneficiaries and ultimately increases costs to taxpayers, beneficiaries and all American citizens alike.”

Mr. Baucus said he was seeking a middle ground between Republicans, who strongly support the existing ban on federal price negotiations, and House Democratic leaders.

“The total prohibition on negotiation should be eliminated,” Mr. Baucus said after listening to two and a half hours of testimony from experts at a Finance Committee hearing. Mr. Baucus is acutely sensitive to public concern about drug prices because he is up for re-election in 2008.

In approving the Medicare measure, House Democrats completed an ambitious week of legislating. Since Tuesday, the newly empowered Democrats have also approved measures that would enact recommendations from the bipartisan Sept. 11 commission, raise the minimum wage and lift restrictions on federal financing of embryonic stem cell research.

The debate over Medicare drug prices epitomizes the profound differences between the parties over the proper role of government in the nation’s health care system. Democrats would prefer that government play a stronger role in guaranteeing access to care at lower prices. Many Republicans, on the other hand, say the market would work better if government got out of the way.

Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the Democratic proposals were ”a stalking horse for price controls.” In seeking a larger federal role, he said, they remind him of the Clinton administration’s ill-fated plan for universal insurance coverage.

“We have enough votes to sustain a veto,” Mr. Grassley said.

Mr. Baucus and other Senate Democrats said the government should negotiate drug prices in a few, carefully selected areas where competition had not driven down prices.

Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said Mr. Baucus’s position was highly significant. “It paves the way for the possibility” of giving the government the authority to negotiate, she said.

On Wednesday, Ms. Snowe and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a bill that would repeal the ban on drug price negotiations. The bill would require Medicare to help negotiate contracts for a drug if the federal government had invested a substantial amount of money in its development.

It would also require Medicare to negotiate contracts when a brand-name drug was available from only one manufacturer and no substitute or “therapeutic equivalent” was available.

Mr. Baucus said, “For certain unique drugs, it seems that the prices are way too high.”

But Richard G. Frank, a professor of health economics at Harvard, said that some of these drugs “really make a difference in people’s lives.” The drugs may be expensive, Dr. Frank said, but imposing cost controls may pose “particular risks to precisely the research and development that should be most encouraged.”

The Congressional Research Service said that if the government negotiated lower drug prices for Medicare, pharmaceutical companies might respond by increasing prices for other buyers.

“While drug prices paid by Medicare beneficiaries may fall, overall drug prices may increase for other consumers, specifically for the under-65 population,” the research agency said.

The White House and drug manufacturers say Medicare is such a large buyer of prescription drugs that it could, in many cases, dictate prices.

Ms. Snowe and Mr. Wyden rejected that argument. Their bill says the secretary cannot set prices or establish a uniform list of covered drugs.
297 2007-01-12 In an unexpected shake-up, the British music giant EMI Group has fired its chief of recorded music, Alain Levy, ahead of a broad reorganization aimed at reviving the flagging company, according to executives briefed on the plan.

The sudden move, expected to be announced today, follows a series of setbacks at EMI, including a string of failed merger negotiations with a rival, the Warner Music Group, and the poor sales performance of the pop star Janet Jackson.

The exits of Mr. Levy and his longtime deputy, David Munns, are expected to be accompanied by a profit warning that will underscore the company’s financial woes, according to the executives, who declined to be identified because they are not authorized to speak publicly.

EMI’s chairman, Eric L. Nicoli, is also expected to orchestrate a wider revamping that will result in significant layoffs, they said.

An EMI spokeswoman declined to comment. Mr. Levy could not be reached.

The ouster of Mr. Levy comes about five years after he was recruited to bolster the performance of the company, which ranks last in sales in the United States among the four major music conglomerates. EMI’s share of total sales in the American market dipped last year to 10.2 percent, from about 10.4 percent, according to Nielsen SoundScan.
298 2007-01-12 The outside of two envelopes delivered to the Palm Beach County Courthouse held a white powdery substance that tested positive for tellurium, a chemical hazardous to the liver and central nervous system, the authorities said. The chemical did not pose a threat because it was not airborne, but five people who came in contact with the envelopes were decontaminated, said Teri Barbera, a spokeswoman for the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office, which was investigating the origin of the substance.
299 2007-01-12 After the life, or at least the career, of one of New York’s finest was imperiled in the line of duty yesterday, police officials and reporters gathered inside a Manhattan hospital, awaiting news from doctors.

“The dog should be able to make a full recovery in a month,” Dr. Jason Fusco finally assured the crowd. But an operation expected to last about an hour had taken three, said Dr. Fusco, a veterinarian dressed in green scrubs. “The laceration went all the way to the bone,” he said.

The dog, a 3-year-old German shepherd named Ranger, has been a member of the city’s canine unit for more than two years. Yesterday, as he and his handler, Officer Neal Campbell, searched for a man accused of violating his parole, Ranger was injured, severing three major muscles and cutting a major vein.

With an arrest warrant, Officer Campbell and Ranger entered the suspect’s basement apartment in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn yesterday around 11:45 a.m. The apartment was littered with broken plates and shattered glass, the police said.

The police said Ranger ducked beneath a dingy bed, where the suspect was hiding. In the darkness a shard of broken mirror cut a gash in the dog’s left front leg.
300 2007-01-12 “On the whole, we are moving in the right direction,” she said. “All of our indicators tell me that we are doing the right thing.”

But auditors said they were told to limit questioning only to those specific issues that the I.R.S. and the companies had agreed in advance to examine. When other questionable deductions emerged in the course of the audit, they said, additional taxes were ignored.

Rank-and-file auditors said that the sharp rise in tax dollars collected per hour of audit was not a sign of an improved auditing system but simply reflected the fact that abusive and illegal tax shelters had become so common that it was easy to find additional taxes due.

James Lynch, who retired 18 months ago after two decades auditing large corporations in the San Diego area, said that “of course dollars per hour are up, because they put in smaller teams and you just grab what you can and get out.”

Of roughly 50 auditors interviewed, only one said he agreed with the new policy, arguing that it was better to audit more companies lightly than a few thoroughly as a strategy to improve compliance with the tax laws. But even this agent agreed with the others that large companies were being allowed to pay far less than they owed.

Mr. Johnson and some of these agents also said that I.R.S. management reports indicate that the quality of audits was improving only because the agency did not accurately record these actions.

One longtime auditor in New York said that when ordered not to pursue an issue “you just write ‘closed per case manager’ to cover yourself.”

The auditor was asked why she did not file an official memo indicating that she disagreed and that she believed it was premature or improper to close the audit.

“Why would I do that?” the auditor replied. “So my manager will give me a bad performance review?” Others gave similar explanations.

Ms. Nolan said agents who believed that an important issue should have been pursued should report the matter to higher-level supervisors or go to the inspector general’s office. She said she was not aware of any such complaints.

But Coleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, said that Ms. Nolan should not be surprised that there was widespread unhappiness in the ranks about the quality of audits.

“We have been hearing complaints since they started the policies of short cycle time and limited-scope audits,” Ms. Kelley said. “These are policy decisions the I.R.S. has the right to make, whether they are right or wrong.”

She said any agent who went up the chain of command would have the complaint rejected out of hand.

“The agents are told that this is the scope of the audit and this is the time you have to deliver,” Ms. Kelley said. “Their professional judgment is being ignored.”

Ron McGinley said it was clear when the new policies went into effect in 2003, shortly before he retired as an I.R.S. economist in Southern California, that tax law enforcement was being weakened.

Mr. McGinley drew an analogy contrasting the I.R.S. approach to the way the government investigated John Gotti, the organized crime boss known as the Teflon Don.

“The way they limit audits,” he said, “is like the FBI going to the Teflon Don and saying, ‘We’d like to look around, so what are you willing to let us see?’ ”

Across the country, several presidents of local I.R.S. union chapters said there had been a steady flow of complaints from auditors, specialists and others who examine tax returns that they are not being allowed to do their jobs. They said some of the most highly trained and respected auditors had quit or plan to leave the moment they were eligible to retire.

“Agents in the large- and mid-sized business division complain to me constantly that what are supposed to be estimated dates to complete audits are hard deadlines,” said Frank Heffler, president of the local in Manhattan, which has the largest contingent of I.R.S. corporate tax auditors.

The auditors said that many companies were cooperative, but others took advantage of the shortened time periods to delay turning over crucial documents until the end of the audit.

Two auditors told of corporations that when asked for a specific document, produced thousands of pages of ill-organized material in an apparent effort to waste their time and limit the issues that would be fully examined. Both auditors said they complained to supervisors, but to no avail.

Kay Rogers, the union president in Orange County, Calif., said that official I.R.S. policy calls upon auditors to “do the right thing” and pursue an audit beyond the deadline if the issues warrant it. But in practice, Ms. Rogers said, that does not happen.

The reason, she explained, is because supervisors receive cash bonuses, promotions and other benefits based on closing cases within the time allowed, not on the quality of audits or the dollars collected.

“When a person is rewarded monetarily for keeping to the cycle time,” she said, they are going to close audits to get their reward.

Individual auditors in eight states, interviewed over the last seven months, told of case managers and higher supervisors ordering them to drop issues because it would prevent closing the audit by a predetermined date.

Many of these agents said they were troubled most when the sums involved pre-negotiated agreements with the I.R.S. on how much profit multinational companies could take overseas in tax havens and how much must be taken inside the United States.

“They are giving away the store,” one agent in New Jersey said.

Agents told of being refused access to specialists, including economists, engineers and historians, because if these specialists developed an issue the audit would have to continue past the deadline.

“They are not letting us do our job, which is to enforce the law,” said one I.R.S. auditor who handles the most complicated international cases.

Ms. Nolan, the official in charge of the division, said that such comments reflected the difficulty many I.R.S. veterans were having in adapting to new policies, not any flaws in those policies.

Mr. Lynch, the auditor who retired in California, and many others complained that the effect of the policy was to allow the Bush administration to achieve administratively a further easing of the corporate income tax burden far beyond what Congress has approved legislatively.

According to Melanie Fox, the only current auditor besides Mr. Johnson who agreed to be quoted by name, a large number of the most experienced corporate auditors plan to retire as quickly as they can because they feel their efforts are not respected.

“A lot of audit experience is about to walk out the door,” Ms. Fox said. “And then what will happen?”
301 2007-01-12 From all the ruckus raised by the administration and its patrons in the pharmaceutical industry, you would think that Congressional Democrats were out to destroy the free market system when they call for the government to negotiate the prices of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries. Yet a bill scheduled for a vote in the House of Representatives today is sufficiently flexible to allow older Americans to benefit from the best efforts of both the government and the private drug plans.

The secretary of health and human services should be able to exert his bargaining power with drug companies in those cases in which the private plans have failed to rein in unduly high prices — leaving the rest to the drug plans. The result could be lower costs for consumers and savings for the taxpayers who support Medicare.

Under current law, written to appease the pharmaceutical industry, the government is explicitly forbidden from using its huge purchasing power to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. That job is left to the private health plans that provide drug coverage under Medicare and compete for customers in part on the basis of cost.

The Democrats’ bill would end the prohibition and require — not just authorize — the secretary of health and human services to negotiate prices with the manufacturers. That language is important since the current secretary, Michael Leavitt, has said he does not want the power to negotiate.

No data is publicly available to indicate what prices the private health plans actually pay the manufacturers. But judging from what they charge their beneficiaries, it looks like they pay significantly more for many drugs than do the Department of Veterans Affairs — which by law gets big discounts — the Medicaid programs for the poor, or foreign countries.

The administration argues, correctly, that the private plans have held costs down and that there is no guarantee the government will do any better. The bill, for example, prohibits the secretary from limiting which drugs are covered by Medicare, thus depriving him of a tool used by private plans and the V.A. to win big discounts from companies eager to get their drugs on the list. The secretary does have the bully pulpit, which he can use to try to bring down the cost of overpriced drugs.
302 2007-01-12 ALBANY, Jan. 11 — Gov. Eliot Spitzer named 11 members of his administration Thursday, including veterans of the Clinton White House, members of policy research groups, and two of the Democrats who ran unsuccessfully last year to succeed him as the New York State attorney general.

The governor nominated one of the former attorney general candidates, Denise E. O’Donnell, the former United States attorney in Buffalo, as his commissioner of the state’s Division of Criminal Justice Services. Ms. O’Donnell and several others who were nominated to serve as commissioners are subject to confirmation by the State Senate.

The other former attorney general candidate, Sean Patrick Maloney, a former senior adviser to President Bill Clinton, was appointed first deputy secretary to the governor, and will advise Mr. Spitzer on strategy and policy. The appointment of Mr. Maloney leaked out earlier this week when reporters leaving a news conference bumped into him in the Capitol.

Mr. Spitzer appointed Olivia Golden, a former policy director at the Children’s Defense Fund and assistant secretary for children and families under President Clinton, as his state director of operations, the post that oversees the day-to-day workings of more than 60 state departments, agencies, boards and commissions.

And the governor nominated Michael F. Hogan, who has been the director of the Ohio Department of Mental Health since 1991, to serve as the commissioner of New York State Office of Mental Health. His appointment was praised by the New York Association of Psychiatric Rehabilitative Services.
303 2007-01-12 Today, 55 chief executives at the biggest 100 companies in the United States have signed an employment or severance contract, according to an analysis by Equilar, a compensation research firm in San Mateo, Calif. Most ordinary professionals — including managers just two or three layers down in the organization — are typically not given any guarantees.

Executives who are being recruited argue that they need contracts because of the risks involved. Top executive turnover is at record levels: roughly 35 percent of departing chiefs in 2005 were forced out, according to Booz-Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm. Orchestrating a turnaround can take several years to pay off. And the relationship with the board may not work out.

Among the 16 chief executives of the top 100 companies who were recruited from outside in the last three years, 13 had an employment or severance contract; among the 10 executives who were promoted, 6 had a contract.

While every agreement is different, it generally sets out the terms of a new executive’s salary, bonus, perks and stock awards. It also describes what happens to the executive’s pay package if he or she is fired or forced out.

In theory, the agreements work to ensure employment conditions while providing some protection for the company if things do not work out. A company might agree to certain amount of severance pay, for example, to prevent a chief executive from immediately working for a competitor or poaching top staff.

In reality, however, many agreements appear to be negotiated in the executive’s favor. Among the poor practices, compensation experts say: guaranteeing bonuses two or three years after the executive has been at the helm; offering so-called evergreen clauses that automatically renew the contract every few years, narrowly defining the conditions for which an executive can be fired and providing lucrative severance payouts.

“It’s not that employment agreements are bad,” said Paul Hodgson, senior analyst at the Corporate Library, a governance watchdog group. “It’s what’s in them.”

Consider a recent analysis by James F. Reda, an independent compensation consultant in New York who examined the impact of severance agreements. The average American worker might receive about two weeks’ salary for every year they worked at a company, Mr. Reda said. The average chief executive without an agreement received the equivalent of about 18 weeks of salary for each year of service.

At Home Depot, Mr. Nardelli’s contract entitled him to 568 weeks of salary for each of the six years he was chief executive. Michael D. Eisner took home the equivalent of nearly 536 weeks of salary after he left the Walt Disney Company. Of course, that pales in comparison with the former lieutenant he dismissed: Michael Ovitz, Disney’s former chief operating officer, was paid the equivalent of more than 5,000 weeks of salary after just over a year on the job.

Not every employment contract, however, calls for lavish severance payouts or income guarantees.

At Intuit, for example, Stephen M. Bennett, its chief executive, is entitled to severance pay equal to six months his current salary, which was $1.1 million in 2006, and limited vesting of stock options and restricted stock awards that he is not yet able to exercise. Likewise, Walgreen and Whole Foods hold the line on large change-in-control payouts.

If properly negotiated, some compensation experts say, employment contracts can benefit both the executive and the company by clarifying the exit package. When James Dimon took over at Bank One in March 2000, he signed a contract that gave him a guaranteed $9.5 million bonus in cash and stock for at least his first five years at the helm. It also provided a generous exit package if he was forced out.

Six months later, Mr. Dimon said he voluntarily scrapped his contract’s income guarantee and declined to take the $2.5 million cash portion of his bonus. But he said he “would not have taken the job” without a severance plan, especially since he had spent six months negotiating his exit at Citigroup after a falling out with Sanford I. Weill, his former mentor and boss.

If it happens again, “I don’t want to negotiate with anybody. I want to know exactly what it is,” Mr. Dimon, now chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said at a 2005 conference on executive pay.

William D. Perez, Wrigley’s new chief executive who has been at three companies in the last three years, said that “trust and fit” mattered when he has contemplated an employment contract. At S. C. Johnson, where he rose through the ranks to become chief executive, Mr. Perez said he never had an employment agreement.

Nike, which had had a history of rejecting executives recruited from outside, was a different story. Mr. Perez said he was leaving behind a 34-year career to enter the “unpredictable world of Nike.”

It “would have been foolhardy without some sort of contract,” Mr. Perez said in an e-mail message. He was paid $14 million when he left Nike after 13 months.

Now, Mr. Perez is working at Wrigley without any formal agreement or severance plan. “If you know the people you are going to be working for, if you have a good feel for the culture, and if you think your performance will be objectively assessed, why do you need a contract?” he wrote. “That’s why I don’t have a contract at Wrigley and why, it turns out, I needed one at Nike.”

Still, not everyone agrees that employment contracts are necessary at all. Jeffrey R. Immelt, General Electric’s chairman and chief executive, said recently that he did not think that chief executives should have contracts. Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America’s chairman and chief executive, suggested that having one was unfair to other employees. “I don’t understand why a C.E.O. should have a safety net when others don’t,” he said in an interview last summer.

But most often, chief executives recruited from the outside are able to get a contract if they want. Without strong internal candidates, boards often feel the need to hire a superstar to fill a leadership void.

The problem is compounded, critics charge, by directors who often have close personal ties to the chief executive or are being advised by a general counsel who will call the man at the other side of the table “boss” the following week. And boards often make the mistake of focusing on a single candidate and lose sight of their negotiating clout.

“It’s like a prenuptial agreement,” said Ms. Koors, the compensation consultant. “You are negotiating what you are going to give someone if it ends at a time when you are in love with each other, wearing rosy sunglasses and all aglow — and it’s never going to happen.”

It was not always this way. Forty years ago, fewer than 25 percent of chief executives at big companies signed an employment contract that laid out the salary and bonus terms as well as potential severance, according to Joseph E. Bachelder, a compensation lawyer who has represented many chief executives.

Today, however, some sense that changes may be brewing. Robert J. Stucker, who negotiated Mr. Nardelli’s pay contract, tempered some of his demands, according to someone who has worked closely with him on several negotiations. Gerard R. Roche, the senior chairman of Heidrick & Struggles who helped bring Mr. Nardelli to Home Depot, has adjusted some of the advice he now gives boards.

“There was a phrase I used to use: whatever it takes,” Mr. Roche said. “That ‘whatever it takes’ has become a much more relative phrase — there is a much more conservative approach.”

And Home Depot’s board appears unlikely to guarantee their next leader’s pay upfront. Frank Blake, a Home Depot senior executive who was named Mr. Nardelli’s successor, is not expected to have an employment contract, according to a person close to the board’s discussions.
304 2007-01-12 The Bush administration yesterday withdrew a proposal to change the way federal agencies assess environmental hazards, health threats and other risks, after an expert panel declared that it was so scientifically flawed that it “could not be rescued.”

The panel, appointed by an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, had been convened to evaluate a proposal by the White House Office of Management and Budget to standardize evaluation procedures. The budget office, which proposed the changes a year ago, said they would improve the quality of risk assessments by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Transportation and other agencies.

Critics said the proposed changes were an effort to weaken government regulatory protections against environmental and other hazards.

In sharp contrast to the academy’s normally staid language, the panel called the proposal simplistic and said it was “fundamentally flawed” and lacked “information for gauging the benefits to be achieved” by putting it into effect.

The panel said that the agency’s standards were unclear, incomplete and unbalanced. The budget office’s definition of risk assessment itself “conflicts with long-established concepts and practices,” the panel said, and, as a result, “could cause great confusion.”
305 2007-01-12 Those who represent the Bell family as well as the two men who were wounded in the shooting have also expressed outrage over what they see as a basic weakness in the criminal justice system: that district attorneys investigate cases of excessive use of force by the police, with whom they must work every day.

They want legislative change to provide for the appointment of a permanent special prosecutor in such cases.

The only one of the five officers who fired his gun in the Bell shooting who has not spoken to prosecutors is Detective Michael Oliver, 35, who fired 31 of the shots.

A lawyer for Detective Oliver did not return phone calls seeking comment and it remained unclear yesterday if the detective planned to testify before the grand jury or speak with prosecutors.

On Wednesday, an undercover detective who fired 11 shots told his story. His name has not been publicly disclosed. Earlier, prosecutors questioned Officer Michael Carey, 26, who fired three times; Detective Marc Cooper, 39, who fired four times; and Detective Paul Headley, 35, who fired one shot.

Kevin Ryan, a spokesman for Mr. Brown, declined to comment on the case or on any potential grand jury proceedings. “The district attorney has said from the beginning, that it will be a full and thorough investigation,” he said.

In recent years, most police officers involved in fatal shootings in New York have testified in front of grand juries. Voluntarily speaking to prosecutors, as these four police officers have done, is less common.

Officer Bryan Conroy, an undercover officer who shot and killed Ousmane Zongo during a raid in a Manhattan warehouse, spoke to prosecutors and the grand jury, but was indicted and convicted.

Officer Richard S. Neri, who fatally shot a teenager on a Brooklyn rooftop, testified before a grand jury, but did not speak to prosecutors ahead of time, and was not indicted.

Whether a police officer and his lawyer choose to tell his story to prosecutors can depend on the clarity of what happened and whether the shooting appears justified, several lawyers said. Some factors are: Did the person shot by the officer have a weapon? Was it recovered? Were there civilian witnesses? Will those witnesses back up his story?

Several lawyers and former officials agreed to speak about the Bell case, but only on the condition of anonymity, because the case is sensitive and continuing.

One former city prosecutor said that the decision by officers on whether to testify before a grand jury often depends on whether the case is considered “a clean shoot.”

“If it doesn’t appear to be a good shoot, then they don’t go in there,” the former prosecutor said. “It’s a strategy issue with the lawyer and the cop: Do you want to create minutes that can be used to cross-examine you later at trial or that can limit the scope of your defense prematurely.”

If an officer believes he will be indicted no matter what, it may seem to make little sense to him to testify, though a strategy could be to testify and hope that an indictment would be for a lesser charge than second-degree murder.

Another strategy, particularly involving shootings with multiple officers, is to send officers who appear least exposed to criminality into the grand jury room first as a way of having their testimony speak for all involved.

“This is a case where the officers will talk about their state of mind, what their fears are,” Barry M. Kamins, a former Brooklyn prosecutor who is the president of the New York City Bar Association, said of the Bell case. “The grand jury could not get this from any other source, no matter what the cold facts are. So the officers go in, they waive immunity, but it is always a gamble.”

He added, “It is a gamble by the defense attorneys, but one I am sure they are taking after having reviewed the stories the officers are prepared to tell, prior to going in.”

How well an officer is received by grand jurors can depend on his own behavior, and whether he can articulate the facts that show the shooting to be justified, several lawyers and officials said. “They want to see his mannerisms, they want to see remorse,” said one lawyer who has represented officers in such cases.
306 2007-01-12 Hedge funds constituted the largest portion — 44 to 70 percent — of the alternatives category. Average returns for the foundations and endowments that responded to the survey were 10.6 percent, while the leaders posted returns of more than 16.8 percent.

The top 10 percent of performers among the endowments allocated 49 percent of their money to alternatives, compared with 11 percent for fixed income, 18 percent for domestic equity and 21 percent for international equity. The top quartile of performers also show a heavy weighting to alternatives: 46 percent, compared with 11 percent for fixed income, 20 percent for international equity and 21 percent for domestic equity.

Even though hedge funds represented the bulk of investment dollars, their returns were lackluster. In 2006, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had a total return, when dividends were reinvested, of 15.8 percent. Overall returns for alternatives averaged 14.6 percent. Energy and natural resources produced a stunning return of 40 percent; distressed debt, 26 percent; and private equity, 19 percent. Hedge funds turned out only 10.6 percent. But investors did not seem to be bothered.

“It was nice to see hedge funds were doing what they are supposed to do,” said John S. Griswold Jr. executive director of the Commonfund Institute, a research organization dedicated to educating the nonprofit community about investing. “They should lag a rapidly rising stock market,” he explained, “because hedging has a cost.”

The money continues to flow into hedge funds. Hedge Fund Research, a Chicago-based research firm, estimates that $110 billion flowed into new funds through November. A study released by Deutsche Bank yesterday surveyed investors who represent $900 billion of the total $1.4 trillion in the industry and predicted that $110 billion will flow into the sector in 2007.

“I don’t think demand will slow down anytime soon unless we see a lot of disasters,” Mr. Griswold said. “There’s a bit of a herd mentality here. If you are not in hedge funds, people look funny at you, like, ‘Why aren’t you?’ ”

Heavy investments in alternatives and hedge funds in particular have paid off for endowments. More than 79 percent of the growth in endowments with assets of $500 million to $1 billion resulted from investment returns (as opposed to gifts, for example). Institutions with more than $1 billion derived more than 75 percent of their returns from their investments, according to the Commonfund survey.

A separate study conducted by Casey, Quirk & Associates and Bank of New York last fall also showed satisfied customers. About 72 percent of respondents said that hedge fund returns came within 1 percentage point of their target. A surprising 25 percent of investors said they did better than expected: 19 percent exceeded their target by 1 to 5 percentage point. Only 3 percent said their investment underperformed.

There are other reasons to expect robust growth. Pension funds are wading in, raising their investments in alternatives in general and hedge funds in particular. The Casey, Quirk and Bank of New York study estimated that institutions globally will add $1 trillion in money by 2010, compared with $360 billion today.

The growing role of institutions has tempered expectations about returns: 80 percent of those surveyed by Casey, Quick and Bank of New York said they expected returns below 10 percent, with the bulk anticipating 8 to 9 percent. Only 20 percent expected more than 10 percent.

Megabucks compensation, meanwhile, still draws talent to hedge funds.

“Hedge funds are here to stay because of the compensation,” Mr. Griswold said. “This is where the best and brightest managers are gravitating to.”

The unforgiving nature of the industry means that those who do not perform will be booted out. According to Hedge Fund Research, since the beginning of 2005 almost 1,300 hedge funds have closed. During that time, more than 3,000 have been started.

There will be more Amaranth Advisors (which was based in Greenwich, Conn.) — funds that blow up because of bad and greedy bets. There will be frauds and there may be a market meltdown.

But alternative investing — in private companies, with hedge fund managers who more aggressively try to time the markets, and in forests and wineries, is thriving.
307 2007-01-12 But in another instance of his early actions raising doubts, Mr. Ban was asked about reports that he had not conducted formal job interviews with some of his appointees to high-ranking management positions. He has said that tightening the United Nations’ much criticized management would be a priority of his administration.

He said that these were “unsubstantiated misperceptions,” and that he had relied on his own associations and conversations with the candidates and on discussions about their qualifications with others.

“I sincerely hope that instead of judging by what you heard from different sources that you will judge my appointments on the basis of merit and on the basis of their performance,” he said.

The three people mentioned were Asha-Rose Mtengeti-Migiro, the foreign minister of Tanzania, whom Mr. Ban chose as deputy secretary general; Alicia Bárcena Ibarra of Mexico, Mr. Annan’s chief of staff, who becomes under secretary general for management; and John Holmes, the British ambassador to France, who becomes under secretary for humanitarian affairs.

Mr. Ban said he would be demanding “performance targets” of senior officials, which would be reviewed at the end of the year to measure their achievement.

Asked if he would use a scheduled visit to the White House next week to ask President Bush to close the United States detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, he said he agreed with his predecessor, Mr. Annan, that it should be shut down.

He added that he believed Mr. Bush himself shared that objective. Mr. Ban declined to give his reaction to President Bush’s announcement of new troop levels in Iraq.

“Broadly speaking, however,” he said, “the United Nations would welcome genuine efforts to improve security for ordinary Iraqis as well as to stabilize the country through a combination of security, political and economic means.”

The United Nations presence in Iraq was sharply cut back in 2003 after the bombing of its headquarters in Baghdad, which killed 22 people, including the mission chief, Sergio Vieira de Mello.

Since then, the United Nations has provided assistance in drafting a constitution and organizing elections, two functions Mr. Ban referred to in answering a question about whether he planned to expand the current mission.

“We will continue to participate in that process as much as we can, but our participation and contribution at this time is largely dictated by the security situations on the ground,” he said.
308 2007-01-12 Investors regained some of their swagger yesterday, sending stocks higher after oil prices fell further and a drop in jobless claims indicated that the economy was not slowing too quickly.

“The markets had a very strong run in the fourth quarter, and we have spent the first week and a half consolidating those gains,” said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company. He maintained that stocks remain “in a pretty good period,” as in 2006.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.82 points, or 0.59 percent, to 12,514.98, another record. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index came within range of its six-year closing high, up 8.97 points, or 0.63 percent, at 1,423.82. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index advanced 25.52 points, or 1.04 percent, closing at 2,484.85. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies rose 9.58 points, or 1.23 percent, to 788.45.

On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues outnumbered decliners by more than 2 to 1. Volume was estimated at 1.68 billion shares.

Crude oil for February delivery, which had already declined 15 percent since the year began, fell to its lowest level since May 2005, settling down $2.14 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, at $51.88. A pullback by investment funds and until recently, an unusually warm winter has unnerved some investors, suggesting that a period of huge profits by energy companies may be nearing an end.
309 2007-01-12 PARIS, Jan. 11 — Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski of Poland on Thursday promised a new law that would take aim at former secret police agents, excluding them from serving in numerous public posts and leaving many of them with reduced or no pensions.

Mr. Kaczynski said the proposed law, which his Law and Justice party would introduce to Parliament in the coming weeks, would “free Poland of the last traces of Communism by removing all the privileges of individuals responsible for the crimes and repression of the totalitarian state.”

The law would declare Poland’s Communist-era secret police, the Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa, a “criminal” organization. Mr. Kaczynski, who took the prime minister’s post last year, has promised with his twin brother, President Lech Kaczynski, to cleanse Poland of the lingering secret police presence.

The move, if put in practice the way that Mr. Kaczynski suggested, would represent the strongest purge yet of former agents in the post-Communist Eastern bloc. While Communist governments in the region were replaced by free-market democracies after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the hated secret services that had kept people in line during the Communist years faded away without facing much retribution.

In some of the countries, including Poland, many Communist-era secret police agents simply changed hats and began working for the intelligence services of the new democratic governments. In others, the agents were let go when the secret services were disbanded. Many of the former agents used their contacts and inside knowledge to get rich during the dismantling of their countries’ centrally planned economies. Others retired and draw pensions from their new governments today.

But several countries in the region have recently begun delving into their dark pasts, opening the archives of their secret police and revealing the names of those people who participated in the mechanisms of oppression. Some of the most disturbing revelations concern the identities of informers who spied on friends, colleagues and neighbors for the secret services.
310 2007-01-12 The risk that is endlessly debated concerns the American housing market and the impact it will have on spending. Will mortgage defaults skyrocket, or has the market hit a very soft bottom? At the moment, the consensus seems to lean to the optimistic side, but no one appears to think the ultimate answer has much to do with success or failure in Iraq.

Financial markets around the world have done quite nicely during this war, and so far in 2007 the most notable market move has been a fall in the price of oil, which is not exactly an indication of worry about Mideast turmoil. Even Mr. Bush’s saber-rattling toward Iran did not seem to concern oil traders.

It was not always such. As the Vietnam War was grinding to its long end, financial markets around the world plunged. Commodity prices soared and Western economies went into recession. Defeat in a war seemed to signal the end of the American century, and to be somehow tied to a decline in American economic success.

But that analysis proved to be wrong. Notwithstanding all the talk of a domino effect, a Communist victory in Vietnam did not lead to the spread of Communism in Southeast Asia, nor did it prevent the collapse of the Soviet empire. And while the heirs of Ho Chi Minh still rule the land, they are as eager as any other government to produce cheap products for sale in Europe and the United States. Economic realities turned out to be more important than political ones.

One reason Vietnam turned out to be so unimportant was that the calculations on why it was important were wrong. Vietnam exports nothing that the rest of the world desperately needs, let alone anything for which alternative sources are unavailable.

It would be comforting to think Iraq was similarly overestimated in importance. But it does have oil, and chaos that continues to reduce Iraqi oil exports, let alone leads to the wider Middle Eastern instability that President Bush warned of Wednesday night, could devastate Western economies that have not developed alternative sources of energy.

In the aftermath of the Soviet collapse, President Bush’s father talked of a “new world order” in which there was but one superpower. International companies seemed to be able to go where they wished, with almost every country clamoring for investment.

A decade and a half later, that is changing, and the war in Iraq is a major reason. A newly confident and powerful Russia is showing Europe the power of being able to close natural gas pipelines, and it has gotten the international oil companies to express gratitude even as it dictates harsher terms for deals signed years ago.

At bottom, investors now act as if they believe that Iraq will be like Vietnam in a very important way: In the long run, it will have little real significance for the world economy. Let’s hope that assessment is correct.
311 2007-01-12 Baylor University, a Baptist school that has been known for its politically conservative alumni, houses a shrine to a group of bohemian poets. In a state that prides itself on an independent, cowboy spirit, Waco seems to epitomize easygoing individualism. Not surprisingly, this is the city that gave the world Steve Martin and Dr Pepper.

The Dr Pepper Museum, with a wealth of regional lore and history, is a must-see. In 1885, Charles Alderton, a local druggist, created Dr Pepper, designing it to “taste like a drugstore smells.” Now his quirky soda has become so deeply ingrained in hometown culture that Wacoans serve it heated over a slice of lemon as an alternative to coffee or tea. “It’s quite refreshing, like a hot toddy without the rum,” said Becky Hodges, a local innkeeper.

Inside the museum, in an old bottling plant with squat arches and multicolored brickwork, an animatronic Doc Alderton tells the story, and tour groups file into a checker-tiled vintage soda fountain where, on a day last summer, a woman in a white hat was setting out Dr Pepper floats made from the original cane-sugar recipe on a marble countertop. Murmurs came up from around the room as people took their first sips.

“This is how it tasted when I was growing up,” a middle-aged man in a Stetson hat announced before herding his family into the museum store to buy a crate of it.

Farther uptown toward the river, sprawls Baylor, one of the oldest universities in Texas. Inside the Armstrong-Browning Library on the Main Green is an impressive repository of all things related to Robert Browning, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and their circle of counter-Victorian free spirits. All would have undoubtedly felt right at home in this neo-Renaissance building with its vast stained-glassed windows, where many of their possessions — personal papers, paintings and furniture — are on display. Andrew Armstrong, who wears Robert Browning’s personal signet ring in the full-length portrait overlooking the reading room, assembled the collection in the early decades of the 20th century.

EIGHT blocks north along Baylor’s pleasant greens, the Old Suspension Bridge, now open only to pedestrian traffic, spans the Brazos. The resemblance to the Brooklyn Bridge is no accident. This one was finished in 1870 from cables supplied by John A. Roebling, who designed the Brooklyn Bridge. On a languorous evening, watching romantic couples huddled along the rails enjoying the sunset, it’s hard to imagine that cowpokes used to drive giant herds of cattle over this bridge, headed for northern markets.

A five-minute walk east along the River Walk leads to the Texas Ranger museum, which preserves the mystique of the law enforcers of the Old West days with silver badges, white cowboy hats and lots and lots of guns, including shotguns that the Rangers took from Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow after ambushing them in their car.

Of course, Waco’s most famous shootout happened a lot more recently. “We get asked about it all the time,” a genial woman at the Waco tourist office said, handing out a map to the site of the former Branch Davidian compound, the site of Mr. Koresh’s last stand, six miles east of town. It’s now little more than burnt concrete foundations amid windy plains of dry grass.

In front of the ruins stands a memorial grove of 86 white-blossomed crepe myrtle trees, one for each person who died in the confrontation between government agencies and the Branch Davidian sect — most of them in the fire on April 19, 1993.

“I still find old ammo casings all over here,” said Ron Goins, who moved to the former compound after the shootout (although he said he was not a member of the sect) and sometimes greets visitors coming up the gravel road. The memorial chapel built over the ruins of the main building exhibits photos and artifacts.

For a more cheery view of a religious community, drive three miles north of Waco to the Homestead Craft Village, a nondenominational settlement founded in 1973 in New York. The group has about 1,000 members and emphasizes simple farm living and old-fashioned craftsmanship.

“We use cars and telephones, but we strive for the dignity of simple self-sufficiency and well-built things,” said Kevin Durkin, who quit his graduate studies at Columbia University and became a master carpenter in the community. The village bakery, presided over by young women, is popular with Wacoans. It’s easy to taste why. Most of the baking ingredients — right down to the molasses used to sweeten the food — are produced by the community, and, counterintuitively, downing a doughnut or a cinnamon roll feels healthy.

The whole village is a 19th-century pastoral vision, with a smithy and a gristmill. Its artisan shops sell elegant community-made wooden funiture, soaps, candles and unique copper-tinted pottery. On a sunny summer day, you can watch the colony’s straw-hatted menfolk piling rounded haystacks with pitchforks, just the way haying was done 150 years ago.

Back in Waco, other visions of the past await: a string of gorgeous Greek revival and Italianate mansions lining Cameron Park, witnesses to the vast wealth that was here when Waco was a world center for cotton growing in the last half of the 19th century. A half-dozen homes open up for public tours every weekend, but the one that stands out in full “Gone With the Wind” glory is the Earle-Harrison House, built in 1858. In its gardens one Saturday evening last summer, a boisterous crowd danced to Shania Twain and Prince. Most of the men wore tuxedos and cowboy boots, the approved outfit for Texas-style weddings, many of which are held at the house.

Just downhill in Cameron Park, a place of lush vegetation and miles of winding paths, another creature appeared to be dancing. On a trail along limestone cliffs overlooking the Brazos, a roadrunner rushed wildly on spindly legs in a “Happy Feet” dance, darting in and out of the brush.

Armadillos, too, appeared and reappeared, and the rhythmic sound of crickets and soft evening light gave the place a primordial, Edenesque feel. The smell of barbecued beef came wafting through the trees from the open-pit fires down by the riverbank where Wacoans gather every weekend.

Had the Chisholm Trail cowboys come back, they would have felt right at home.

WACO has many chain hotels, but there are also several bed-and-breakfasts that provide local color and Texas hospitality. The Judge Baylor House (908 Speight Street; 254-756-0273; $72 to $115) has registered Henry Mancini and Shelby Foote in its guest rooms. The Cotton Palace (1910 Austin Avenue; 877-632-2312; $109 to $139) is run by Becky Hodges, a gregarious font of local knowledge.

There’s fine dining in Waco, but for a meal with regional spirit, look at the places with Formica tables. Elite Circle Grille (2132 South Valley Mills Drive; 254-754-4941), sister to the now-departed downtown Elite cafe, where Pvt. Elvis Presley was a regular when he was stationed at nearby Fort Hood, is decorated with Elvis memorabilia and serves chicken-fried steak ($9.95) and baby-back ribs with Dr Pepper barbecue sauce ($16.95). It hops with live jazz on Friday nights.

Rudy’s Country Store & Bar-B-Q, next door at 2510 Circle Road (254-750-9995), serves “wet” (juicy) or “dry” (lean) brisket sandwiches ($3.49) with some properly fiery barbecue sauce. It also sells a “sissy” sauce, but you haven’t come to Waco to be a sissy, have you?

Or drive south on Franklin Avenue to the giant revolver pointing into the parking lot of Michna’s Bar-B-Q (2803 Franklin Avenue; 254-752-3650), featuring succulent slabs of meat, sides of beans and salad, and the hallowed Texas concoction of corn chips, cheese and chili sauce called Frito pie ($4.95).

Admission is $5 at the Dr Pepper Museum (300 South Fifth Street; 254-757-1025) and at the Texas Ranger Hall of Fame and Museum (100 Texas Ranger Trail; 254-750-8631). The Armstrong-Browning Library (710 Speight Avenue; 254-710-3566) is free.

At Waco Skeet and Trap Club, (7209 Karl May Road; 254 753-2651), 25 clay pigeons and ammunition are $6.

A schedule of downtown house tours is at www.historicwaco.org. The antebellum Earle-Harrison House (1901 North Fifth Street; 254-753-2032; admission $3) is open by appointment.
312 2007-01-12 EYES ON EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS -- Employment contracts like the one that gave Robert L. Nardelli a $210 million exit package from Home Depot have been blamed for virtually guaranteeing huge payouts even when an executive fails. [Page C1.]    JURY OR...
313 2007-01-13 Two brothers who so overfed their 10-year-old chocolate Labrador, Rusty, above, that he weighed more than 150 pounds, more than double the weight he should have been, were found guilty by magistrates in Ely, Cambridgeshire, of causing unnecessary suffering to an animal. The brothers, David and Derek Benton, were given a three-year conditional discharge. Vets working for the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which brought the prosecution, said the dog was so fat he was unable to walk more than six steps without having to sit down. A slimmer Rusty, who has lost about 45 pounds since being taken into the care of animal welfare officials, was returned to the brothers on the condition that they did not let him put on any weight.
314 2007-01-13 TUESDAY, 1:15 P.M. “I have no idea what time it is,” said Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska. And then he indulged in an elaborate metaphor to summarize the cyclical nature of things.

“I look upon life as the wheel in the barnyard,” Mr. Young said. “Politics is the rooster on the wheel saying cock-a-doodle-doo. Some of the Democrats on the top of the wheel think the sun’s going to shine all day. They don’t realize that the wheel is turning and that there’s someone else coming up from the bottom of the wheel.”

WEDNESDAY, 3 P.M. TO 4 P.M. Off the House floor, in the ornate area known as the Speaker’s Lobby, the shift in power was on full display. Members of the press swarmed to the left side of the lobby to meet Democrats coming off the floor. Republicans trickling off to the right were essentially left alone.

“People seem to be paying more attention to me now that I’m in the majority,” said Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. Standing under the official portrait of former Speaker Thomas P. O’Neill Jr., Mr. Cueller wore the “look, Mom!” face of a sudden big shot, or bigger shot than before.

Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, was slumped on the other side of the lobby, complaining that he had just been kicked off the Judiciary Committee by members of his own party.

“I think I was punished for speaking too freely,” Mr. Flake said, specifically for his willingness to compromise with Democrats on immigration overhaul.

Representative Ed Perlmutter, a freshman Democrat from Colorado, had spent much of his week on the House floor. Even when there was nothing doing, no votes scheduled and few members on the floor, he sat and just watched. One of his goals for the first 100 hours is simply to learn the names of his new colleagues. “I could probably identify about 100 right now,” Mr. Perlmutter said, leaving 334 to go.

THURSDAY, NOON For all the talk of the Democrats’ “flurry of legislation” in the first 100 hours, the war in Iraq clearly dominated the day. President Bush addressed the nation the night before. Top administration figures appeared at Congressional hearings.

Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, Republican of New York, was eating lunch in his office, lingering in a conversation about Buffalo sports teams. Not too long ago, he was a member of the leadership team of the majority party, head of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee and in a tough re-election campaign. “I just finished up ’06 with two full-time jobs,” he said, referring to his posts as congressman and head of the campaign committee. Now he was sprawled out in his office eating a ham sandwich. “Washington loves survivors,” he said.

FRIDAY, 4 P.M. Representative Joe Courtney, a freshman Democrat from Connecticut, was walking briskly and hoping to catch a flight to Hartford. Earlier, he gave his first floor speech as a member of Congress, a five-minute talk about Medicare. He was nervous at first, but was fine once he got going.

“I meant to say ‘Mr. Speaker’ and ‘thank you, Mr. Stark,’ ” Mr. Courtney said. “But I wound up saying ‘Thank you, Mr. Spark.’ Oh well.”

He shrugged and headed out for the weekend, promising to do better next time.

By the end of the day Friday, the Democratic clock read 23 hours and 34 minutes, while the Republican clock, which was counting down from 100, read 75 hours.
315 2007-01-13 The slide has been worsening: last week’s top-selling album, the “Dreamgirls” sound rack, sold just 66,000 copies, the lowest sales of a No. 1 album since SoundScan began tracking music sales in 1991.

While the major record companies have desperately tried to shore up revenue from individual digital songs, music videos and other new sources, the cash is coming too slowly to offset the drop in compact discs.

There is a sense among analysts and investors that executives trained in the traditional business of selling vinyl or plastic discs — including Mr. Levy — are not prepared for the digital era, and that the companies must be overhauled. One EMI rival, Sony BMG, on Wednesday integrated its CD and digital sales units and handed the reins of the combined operation to its top digital strategist.

“As the digital growth slows sooner than would otherwise have been expected, it’s putting increased pressure on the industry,” said Richard Greenfield, an analyst at Pali Research. “Cost-cutting and restructuring are the name of the game. I think it’s going to be a very tough 2007 for the music industry.”

For its part, EMI said it planned to cut £110 million ($214 million) in costs a year, and it presented the dismissals of Mr. Levy and Mr. Munns as part of a “de-layering” of management. The reorganization is expected to result in layoffs of almost 20 percent of the work force of EMI Music, which employs about 5,000.

It may also mean a consolidation of its labels in the United States, where it operates such labels as Capitol Records and Virgin Records, and an almost certain retreat from international markets where sales have dropped sharply, according to executives briefed on the plans.

In particular, EMI has struggled to consistently develop new talent from the United States who can be marketed worldwide. While the jazz pop singer Norah Jones sold strongly during Mr. Levy’s reign, there have been very few others, and sales of recent releases from Janet Jackson and Keith Urban fell short of expectations. While certain British acts, like Coldplay, have done well in the United States in recent years, the company has barely been able to eke out a 10 percent market share.

Meanwhile, its prospects have worsened elsewhere, including in Britain, where EMI Music’s share of album sales fell 2.3 percentage points last year, to 17.9 percent, according to the trade publication Music Week. It suffered a particular disappointment with its recent CD from the singer Robbie Williams.

As expected, yesterday’s shake-up was accompanied by a warning that EMI Music’s sales in the current financial year, which ends March 31, would slide by 6 to 10 percent from a year earlier. Shares of EMI fell by 19.25 pence, or 7 percent, to 245.75 pence, or $4.80, in London.
316 2007-01-13 Conditions in both countries have grown so unsettled, some agencies have suspended hosting programs, and the debate is growing about the ratio of risk to reward. Do the many success stories for older orphans make up for the heartbreak when adoption is thwarted?

The Prozzos had been deceived before by an intermediary who showed them a photograph of an adorable child they later learned was not available. So their guard was up before Alona’s visit in December.

“We won’t let this child call us ‘mama’ or ‘papa’ because we aren’t,” Mr. Prozzo said. But Alona’s visit had barely begun when she jumped into his outstretched arms and called him “papa.”

The quandary for agencies in the United States these days is how to balance optimism and pessimism when the prospect of a successful adoption is anyone’s guess. “In an ideal world we wouldn’t be doing it this way,” said Adam Pertman, executive director of the Evan B. Donaldson Adoption Institute, a research organization. “But we haven’t come up with a better solution.”

The fee for the two-week hosting visits, organized by adoption agencies and humanitarian organizations, is $2,500 per child, which includes travel, bilingual escorts and a sizable donation back to the orphanages (subsequent adoption costs average $25,000).

Often, the formal disclaimers and informal predictions by program directors seem at odds. Frontier Horizon, the humanitarian agency that last month brought over 50 orphans, Alona among them, states unambiguously in its printed materials that it is “a travel program not an adoption program.”

But Vincent Rosini, president of the organization, says that his group has been host to 300 Ukrainian orphans since 2000 and that only five families have been unable to adopt the children they wanted. One hundred of Frontier Horizon’s children have been successfully adopted, Mr. Rosini said.

“Is there a good chance?” Mr. Rosini asked. “Yes. Is it 100 percent? No.”

Adoption experts on both sides of the hosting debate agree that the children know they are auditioning for adoption, and that the families quickly grow attached.

“The child has raised expectations, regardless of what they’re told,” said Judy Stigger, director of international adoption for the Cradle, an agency in Evanston, Ill. “And the parents become more emotionally invested than they appreciated because when you hold a specific child in your arms, your whole body feels it, responds and remembers. That child quickly becomes yours.”

In countries like Ukraine, it is all but impossible to manage expectations. Adoption authorities insist that families cannot request children who spent time in their homes, but rather must come to Kiev, by invitation, look at pictures and go to orphanages to meet the children offered to them.

Both the Cradle and Maine Adoption Placement Services, an agency that suspended its Russian hosting program in 2004, are known for their excellent connections in former Soviet bloc nations and are sometimes hired as “fixers” by families who went through other agencies when the children visited only to find they could not adopt them.

At MAPS, Betsy Bewsey, the director of international adoption, said that “right now things are as volatile as I’ve ever seen them.” She cited stringent regulations in China, announced last month, which will complicate adoption in the country, long considered the “fail-safe” because of an efficient bureaucracy and healthy infants. The volatility in these countries, and especially the suspension of several hosting programs from Ukraine and Russia, has contributed to a dip in overall international adoptions by Americans, according to Thomas DiFilipo, the president of the Joint Council on International Children’s Services.

The high-water mark came in 2004, when 22,884 immigrant visas were issued to orphans in the process of formal adoption — more than triple the number in 1990. In 2006, visas fell to 20,679. In that two-year span, visas to children from Ukraine fell to 460, from 723. Russia’s visas dropped to 3,706, from 5,865.

Families like the Prozzos can be easy marks for scoundrels. Agencies that do international adoptions need not be accredited, although that will change if the United States ratifies a treaty to regulate intercountry adoption, expected sometime this year. More than 300 agencies have applied. By all accounts, only one international adoption facilitator in America has been shut down, Yunona USA of Napa, Calif., in 2005. Yunona allegedly defrauded at least 100 would-be adoptive parents of more than $1.1 million by posting photos of Russian and Ukrainian children on its Web site, taking deposits from families and later saying the children were not available. The Prozzos chose a child from the Yunona Web site but had not yet paid a deposit when they learned she was unavailable.

Yunona’s president, Ivan Jerdev, faces a $386,000 default civil judgment. He is believed to have fled to his native Russia after the police raided his office in December 2005, law enforcement officials said. The Yunona case, which did not involve hosting programs, led California to pass the nation’s strictest law regulating adoption facilitators, which went into effect on Jan. 1.

In a complaint against Adopt-A-Miracle, in Evergreen, Colo., investigated by the Denver Better Business Bureau, Lourdes Blanco of Miami said she had selected a Ukrainian infant off the agency’s Web site, learned the baby girl had already been adopted but was assured she would find a comparable child if she traveled to Kiev. Ms. Blanco made two trips, she said, only to be told there were no healthy children. The case was settled when the agency refunded $10,000 of more than $20,000 in fees and travel expenses.

In responding to the bureau, Adopt-A-Miracle’s executive director, Charlotte Allen, described the process as “enormously challenging” because simple information about a child’s status is often unavailable. “It may seem incredible,” Ms. Allen wrote. “But this is the way it is.”

Faya Fromm, 13, formerly of Siberia, knows well how expectations can be dashed in an orphanage. Twice, she was told “we’re sending you to a family in America who might want to adopt you.” The first time she was not chosen for the hosting trip. The second time she wound up with Linda Fromm, 56, of Ridgewood, N.J., who had three grown children from an early marriage.

When a summer hosting program ended, Ms. Fromm “skated around” what to tell Faya, saying she would “fly like the birds and swim like the fish to come visit you.” It took her nine months to assemble her dossier and take a second mortgage on her home to pay for the 2003 adoption. During that time, Ms. Fromm could not call the orphanage. But she sent Faya notes and photo albums, with $5 bills tucked between the pages.

It was a long, uncertain wait for the girl, who described another disappointment: She was shown to an Italian family, then told they would be back for her the next day. Faya was kept out of school, dressed in her best clothes and waited in the director’s office. The family never returned.

Siberia at that time encouraged families to adopt children after a home visit. Not so Ukraine today. At Faya’s urging, Ms. Fromm invited Ira and Olga Chyrkova, 9-year-old twin girls, to spend the holiday as a trial run for adoption.

It was Faya who told the twins her mother’s plans “She will try to bring you back next summer,” Faya told them. “And she’s going to try to adopt you.”

Then midway through, Ms. Fromm was crushed to learn that Olga and Ira were not cleared for adoption yet. Their mother had been murdered, but her death certificate was missing and necessary to prove the girls’ status as orphans.

Mr. Rosini did not directly reassure Ms. Fromm he could pull strings at the orphanage, but mentioned, in passing, that the director had recently asked for a new coat.

Such requests, Mr. Rosini said, are common. One orphanage director threatened to cancel a hosting trip unless he helped her raise money for a new health clinic. A Frontier Horizon family who donated $25,000 is now scheduled to adopt a child who visited four times. Families might be asked by an orphanage director for $400 for a new meat slicer, Mr. Rosini said, or a facilitator will tell them that two weeks’ worth of paperwork could be expedited in two days if he had a fax machine. “We’re used to it,” Mr. Rosini said.

The children come off the plane with the clothes on their backs and a small knapsack. Some, veterans of hosting programs who had never been chosen, also arrive with their defenses up. Twelve-year-old Lesya Otya was slow to warm to Jeannie Fillatti, 49, of Avon, Conn., until it was nearly time to go.

But, in the car headed to the airport — with newly pierced ears, her first brassiere and a ski tag on her parka from a weekend in Vermont — the girl buried her head in Ms. Fillatti’s lap, unconsolable.

A promise from Ms. Fillatti that Lesya could return for next summer’s hosting program was unpersuasive. “They don’t know what to think, how to hope, whether to hope,” said Ms. Fillatti, who had tried before to bring back a child and been rebuffed.

When the time came to pass through the security doors, Lesya wailed her protest, in the English she had recently learned: “No! No! Not yet!”

This was Alona’s first visit, and with no history of disappointment, her departure, with her Christmas bounty of designer jeans and cowboy boots, was composed. Mrs. Prozzo, without eye makeup because she was prepared for a tearful parting, sent her off with a kiss and a murmured “I love you.” She and her husband had plenty to talk about when they got home.

The couple — he is a 53-year-old engineer and she is a 48-year-old librarian, re-examining in middle age their decision not to have children — knew from the start that Alona might not be available for adoption or that she might be snapped up by another family while they prepared their dossier.

They vowed that they understood the long odds. “But that was two weeks ago,” Mr. Prozzo said after Alona returned to rural Zaporozhye. “Now it’s a different story. I love this child.”

And so he hatched a plan. The Prozzos would ready themselves to travel to Ukraine and consider the children offered. Only then, with great deference, would he beg officials to match them with Alona.

“When I’m sitting in front of the guy, man-to-man,” Mr. Prozzo said, “I’ll say, ‘Sir, can you understand this?’ ”

Meanwhile, Mr. Prozzo said he had made a donation to a charity in Zaporozhye that was raising money for hospital equipment. Maybe the donation will improve his adoption chances. If not, Mr. Prozzo said, at least it will improve medical care for the orphans left behind.
317 2007-01-13 SAN JOSE, Calif., Jan. 12 (AP) — Federal prosecutors scored their first victory in the investigation of boardroom spying at Hewlett-Packard on Friday, when a private investigator pleaded guilty to identity theft and conspiracy charges.

The investigator, Bryan Wagner, 29, of Littleton, Colo., pleaded guilty to the two felony counts during his initial appearance in United States District Court in San Jose.

As part of the plea deal, Mr. Wagner admitted to illegally obtaining Social Security numbers and other personal information to snoop on the private telephone records of journalists, former Hewlett-Packard directors, and their family members as part of the company’s effort to ferret out the source of boardroom leaks to the media.

Mr. Wagner acknowledged using a form of subterfuge known as “pretexting,” or pretending to be someone else, to fool telephone companies into releasing records on former two former H.P. directors — Thomas J. Perkins and George A. Keyworth II — and two reporters, Pui-Wing Tam of The Wall Street Journal and Dawn Kawamoto of CNet Networks.

Mr. Wagner admitted using personal information to set up online accounts in the names of the four people from April 2005 to September 2006 to access their call logs and billing records.
318 2007-01-13 Senator Boxer added: “I’m saying, she’s like me, we do not have families who are in the military. What they are doing is a really tortured way to attack a United States senator who voted against the war.”

The exchange between Senator Boxer and Ms. Rice came during a hostile Senate hearing in which Ms. Rice, seeking to sell President Bush’s new Iraq plan to a skeptical Congress, faced an almost solid wall of opposition from both Democrats and Republicans. Senator Boxer several times repeated the question, “Who pays the price?”

Senator Boxer read excerpts from a radio interview with an American family who had lost a son in Iraq. “You can’t begin to imagine how you celebrate any holiday or birthday,” she said. “There’s an absence. It’s not like the person’s never been there. They always were there and now they’re not, and you’re looking at an empty hole.”

Ms. Rice replied, “I can never do anything to replace any of those lost men and women in uniform, or the diplomats, some of whom ——”

Senator Boxer cut her off. “Madam Secretary, please, I know you feel terrible about it. That’s not the point. I was making the case as to who pays the price for your decisions.”

During the hearing itself, Ms. Rice did not appear to take issue with Senator Boxer’s comments. During the interview, she addressed them only in response to a question. But the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, suggested earlier on Friday that Senator Boxer’s comments were antifeminist.

“I don’t know if she was intentionally tacky,” Mr. Snow said in an interview on Fox News. “It’s a great leap backward for feminism.”

A number of members of Congress have children in the military who are serving in Iraq or are likely to do so, including Senators John McCain of Arizona and Jim Webb of Virginia.

Senator Boxer’s comments and the claims and counterclaims about what she meant have captivated the blogs and received extensive coverage on Fox News and other cable channels. One blog, called Swampland, labeled it “Womb Wars.”

Conservative blogs and commentators were quick to seize on the issue. “One Great Leap (Backwards) for Womankind,” read one blog, Bikini Politics. “They will be known by their Fruits,” read another, Macsmind, which billed itself as “Conservative News, Commentary and Common Sense.” Rush Limbaugh also got into the act. “Here you have a rich white chick with a huge, big mouth, trying to lynch this, an African-American woman, right before Martin Luther King Day, hitting below the ovaries here,” Mr. Limbaugh said on his radio show.

Deneen Borelli, a fellow with Project 21, which describes itself as a “leading voice in the African-American community,” said, “I am deeply appalled by Senator Barbara Boxer’s cruel and callous attack on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.”

“The debate should have been about the war in Iraq and not a platform to demean Secretary Rice,” Ms. Borelli said in a statement issued by the organization.

Some Democratic Senate staffers said Senator Boxer’s exchange with Ms. Rice allowed the Bush administration to turn the tables on Iraq critics and sidestep the larger issue of the almost uniform opposition to the president’s plan to send 20,000 more American soldiers to Iraq.

There was no rush from Democrats to defend Senator Boxer, although one blogger on the Swampland blog called Senator Boxer’s comments “fair, as far as it goes.” During the interview with the Times, Ms. Rice said she had expected the skepticism that she received from Congress the day before. “I’ve been through things like this before,” she said.
319 2007-01-13 When the police entered an apartment near St. Louis yesterday looking for a 13-year-old boy who had disappeared 60 miles away on Monday, they found him and a bonus: another Missouri teenager who had been missing for more than four years.

Officers found William Ownby, who vanished after stepping off a school bus in Beaufort on Monday afternoon, and Shawn Hornbeck, a 15-year-old who was last seen riding a bicycle near his home in Richwoods in October 2002, inside the rental apartment, in Kirkwood, Mo.

Sheriff Gary Toelke of Franklin County told reporters that both boys appeared dazed but unharmed.

Officers arrested Michael Devlin, 41, who lived in the apartment, and charged him with one count of first-degree kidnapping. Mr. Devlin was being held on $1 million bond.

Robert Parks, the prosecuting attorney of Franklin County, told reporters that Mr. Devlin had confessed to the crime and added that more charges were likely to be filed in the case.

Sheriff Toelke said officers were questioning Mr. Devlin, who worked as a pizza-delivery dispatcher and on the overnight shift in a funeral home, to try to determine a motive behind the abductions. Mr. Devlin’s name was not found in a check of the Missouri Highway Patrol’s registry of sex offenders. Similarly, a search of Missouri court records revealed no criminal history.

In Beaufort, family and friends of William, a Boy Scout known as Ben, had been conducting a full-scale search yesterday for the boy. He was last seen dashing home from the school bus on Monday. A schoolmate told the authorities that he saw a dilapidated white pickup truck with a camper shell speeding away from the spot.
320 2007-01-13 Last year, manufacturers sold a record $146 billion worth of goods at wholesale in the United States. Sales in 2006 increased 13 percent from 2005, twice the average rate of growth.

“That has not happened in the past 20 years,” said Sean Wargo, an economist with the Consumer Electronics Association.

The industry sold 160 percent more liquid-crystal-display TVs and 154 percent more global positioning satellite navigation systems.

At the same time, however, prices for many products fell faster last year than the typical pace of decline. Big-screen plasma TVs dropped 32 percent, according to the association’s economists. Competition pushed the average notebook computer price down 35 percent. The price of video players for cars fell 65 percent.

Even as executives of the big manufacturers here insisted that the big drops would not happen again this year, consumers can expect to see more of the same. Demand remains strong, and the relentless competition is creating a paradise for shoppers, who have packed their homes with an average of 25 consumer electronic devices, twice as many as just a decade ago.

In big-screen TVs, for example, “As much as I say they won’t fall as much,” said Robert Scaglione, the senior vice president for marketing at Sharp’s North American operations, “I can only hope they won’t.”

Sharp Electronics is one of several TV makers adding capacity this year. Its new factories are more efficient. Sharp can produce six 52-inch flat-panels for L.C.D. televisions with the same amount of effort it took to produce just two of them in its older plant. Sharp said production of all sizes of flat-panels would double this year and then triple in 2008.

Manufacturers, especially the smaller contract companies in Taiwan and China that make the panels for the lesser-known brands like Polaroid or Maxent, need to keep those factories running at full capacity and will cut prices to do so.

Vincent F. Sollitto Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Syntax-Brillian, takes advantage of that trend. In a luxury suite at the Las Vegas Hilton next to the convention center where the annual show was held, he explained how sales of the Olevia brand TVs doubled in 2006.

“A year ago, we were nobody,” Mr. Sollitto said. But the company priced the TV sets 20 percent below those of the major manufacturers and, for a few days after Thanksgiving, outsold Sony three to one in Circuit City Stores. “That’s what we can do,” he said.

“We will be prepared for what is coming and that is very aggressive price reductions throughout the year,” he said.

It is a similar story for computers, a category that only 18 months ago many industry analysts considered to be a sleeper. But sales of notebook computers grew 64 percent last year. Craig Marking, a product manager for Toshiba, said Microsoft’s release of a new operating system, Vista, will continue to stimulate demand. “It creates the opportunity for higher average selling prices,” he added.

He reasons that because Vista turns the PC into a multimedia entertainment device, the computer needs more memory and more sophisticated disk drives.

Once a putty-colored box for an office desk, the personal computer has been redesigned and is more often a sleek notebook, sometimes enrobed in shiny embossed carbon fiber. All those frills are supposed to entice consumers to pay more.

But executives at a scrappy PC maker, Acer of Taiwan, do not think that will happen. They took market share away from Toshiba and Dell in 2006 and they want to get more this year. “We sold 1.6 million last year; We will sell 3.2 million this year,” said Rudi Schmidleithner, president of Acer’s American operations.

Acer’s strategy is to put the latest technology in a PC, for example, installing devices that enable the highest speeds over a wireless network. But instead of considering the computer a niche product for the top of the market and getting fat profit margins, it then prices the products for the mainstream and makes money on volume. “We do not need the highest margins to run our business model,” Mr. Schmidleithner said.

That strategy ruins it for everyone else because the others have to lower prices if they do not want to lose market share. “Part of Dell’s problem is Acer,” Mr. Schmidleithner suggested. Those discounts, of course, put a smile on the faces of consumers.

Navigation systems, meanwhile, that use information from global positioning satellites were another fast-selling product category last year. That came as a bit of a surprise as well because most of the direction-giving devices intended for cars sell for $600 to $1,200.

Change is a afoot here, too. The barriers to entry are low. A G.P.S. device is a few generic semiconductors, a small L.C.D. screen and software. Garmin, an industry leader, has a gross profit margin of 50 percent.

Not surprisingly, more companies at the show were displaying navigation systems. Samsung Electronics, which claims just bested Sony as the No. 1 HDTV maker, has set its sights on this market. Increased competition can mean only one thing: prices are coming down.

The show was not about prices, of course, no matter how much they were discussed in meetings between retailers and manufacturers. The Consumer Electronics Show was supposed to be a showcase for retailers looking for the latest high-tech products that will lure consumers to the store. Watch for Powerline plugs that will use a home’s existing wires to move digital content, including HDTV programs or movies, around the house. Loads of hand-held video players are coming, along with new digital cameras that offer even more automated functions to improve pictures. (Kodak hinted at a mode to remove the glow-eye from pet pictures.)

Some of those technologies will never catch on. At the show, the big debate continued to be about whether HD-DVD or Blu-ray would triumph as the standard for high-definition DVD players. LG Electronics offered a solution to reassure the hesitant consumer: a device that would play both kinds of discs.

But at $1,200, the Super Multi Blue is only for that first adopter. (The first adopters would be better off buying a Toshiba HD-DVD player for $600 and a Sony PlayStation 3, which contains a Blu-ray drive, for $670 because then they get two players and a game machine.) Jun Dong-soo, the senior vice president for digital devices at Samsung, scoffed at LG’s effort: “Without an affordable price, I don’t want to launch a dual format player.”

The fear of making the wrong bet on technology, by the consumer and the manufacturer, led Whirlpool to come up with an innovative alternative to another LG product: the TV in the refrigerator door. What happens when the TV breaks or becomes obsolete? From a tiny meeting room tucked far in the back of one of the exhibition halls, the company showed consumer electronics makers a socket built into the top of a refrigerator’s door from which any kind of device — a TV, a tablet PC, a battery charger, a DVD player — could be hung.

Whirlpool doesn’t plan on charging consumers any more for a refrigerator with the special socket, which it calls Central Park. That way more consumers will buy it and the larger installed base will entice electronics makers, which will further increase demand for Central Park.

Matthew Newton, an innovation consultant at Whirlpool, said, “We’d like to move as quickly as possible to get it into the mainstream market.” It was a sentiment heard a lot at the show.

The follow-up: As the holiday shopping season began, Your Money outlined some online tools that can be used to find the best deals when retailers drop prices suddenly.

As you well know, the prices continue to drop after the holidays. Take advantage of price-protection guarantees of the companies. They typically last for 30 days during which time the retailer will pay you the difference. But only if you notice the lower price and contact them.

The Web site Refundplease.com helps you automatically track price changes at Amazon.com. There is the problem of making direct contact with Amazon’s customer service. With a bit of sleuthing, Tim Noah, a writer for the online magazine Slate, found Amazon’s customer service phone number. It is (800) 201-7575.
321 2007-01-13 WHITE PLAINS, Jan. 12 (AP) — Less than a month after the recording industry dropped a music piracy case against a well-known opponent, it has won a default judgment against her 20-year-old daughter.

Judge Stephen C. Robinson of United States District Court ordered the daughter, Michelle Santangelo, to pay $750 for each of the 41 songs she is accused of downloading illegally — a total of $30,750 — because she failed to respond to the record companies’ claims.

It was not clear whether the default judgment would end the case. Under federal rules, such judgments are often later set aside so lawsuits can be decided on their merits.

Ms. Santangelo’s lawyer, Jordan Glass, said he was not permitted to comment on the judgment, which was returned on Wednesday. He would not elaborate.

Jenni R. Engebretsen, a spokeswoman for the Recording Industry Association of America, which is coordinating the thousands of piracy suits filed by the record companies, also declined to comment.

Michelle Santangelo is the oldest of five children of Patricia Santangelo, who became a defendant in the battle against illegal downloading. When the elder Ms. Santangelo, 42, of Wappingers Falls, N.Y., was sued in 2005 by five record companies, she said she had never downloaded music. If her children did, she said, the file-sharing programs, not the parents, should be blamed.
322 2007-01-13 Last year, the senator’s re-election committee reported losing almost $99,000 on an investment in 2000 in Plug Power Inc., a maker of fuel cells based in Latham, N.Y., in which he also personally owned stock, his financial disclosure reports show. In July 2001, a year after he and his committee bought their shares in Plug Power, Mr. Bruno helped secure $500,000 in state money for a research project involving Plug Power, which has also received state contracts and other government aid.

Also in 2001, Mr. Bruno’s two committees loaned roughly $200,000 to the Capital Center Credit Corporation, a privately held financial services company in Albany whose chairman, Timothy M. McGinn, was a client of Mr. Bruno’s consulting business, according to published reports. Mr. McGinn’s firm repaid the loan at an interest rate of 9 percent to 10 percent over about three years.

Mr. Bruno has acknowledged that his consulting business has been under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation since at least early last year. Mr. McGinn said in a recent interview that his firm is cooperating with investigators in that inquiry.

Mr. Bruno’s use of campaign money as an investment tool adds a new dimension to a spate of recent reports that he and other lawmakers steered millions in public money to pet causes, including several profit-making companies. Mr. Bruno and other lawmakers have said the grants were economic development incentives intended to help small firms expand.

John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, offered a more pragmatic rationale for the campaign committees’ investments, saying they were an attempt to get a better rate of return than what banks were offering. He said the fact that they lost money on some of the investments shows that no favoritism was involved, and he defended the unconventional investments as legitimate and “not uncommon.”

But some campaign finance analysts say the practice is problematic. Because the law permits virtually all manner of investments and does not specify what information about them must be disclosed, they say, there is little to prevent a company from setting an exorbitant rate of return and using it to funnel cash into a campaign.

“You would have no way of knowing that unless there was a regulatory action, like an audit, because it’s not required to be disclosed to the public,” said Lawrence A. Mandelker, an election lawyer who was a campaign treasurer for former Mayor Edward I. Koch. “That’s a shortcoming in the law.”

Revelations about Mr. Bruno’s campaign investments come as other aspects of his financial dealings are under investigation by a federal grand jury in Albany. The senator has said that federal authorities are examining his business relationships over the past five or six years.

Some of those relationships straddled his personal and public lives. The senator, for example, has held personal investments in, or did business with, companies and businessmen who have also received state assistance, sometimes with Mr. Bruno’s help.

The two campaign accounts Mr. Bruno controls together had about $3 million on hand at the end of 2006, but the totals have fluctuated widely over the years. Mr. Bruno, who has been in office for 30 years, has not faced a serious opponent since the early 1990s. He has not spent heavily on his re-election campaigns in many years and has often had large amounts of campaign cash on hand.

Many state legislators, who face re-election every two years, keep their cash in bank accounts where it is readily accessible. It is less common for candidates to invest in mutual funds, and rarer still for them to become equity investors in companies by making loans or direct purchases of stock, according to an analysis of state campaign records. Interest income, dividends and losses are the only data about campaign committee investments that the State Board of Elections makes available to the public.

Lee Daghlian, a spokesman for the elections board, said that committees must also file a document explicitly identifying the investments they make, but that those documents are kept in paper files and are not included in the data available on the board’s Web site. He said it was not possible yesterday to determine whether other candidates had made investments similar to Mr. Bruno’s.

Mr. McArdle said Mr. Bruno decided in 2000 to have his re-election committee buy $107,000 of stock in Plug Power and $24,000 of stock in a related firm, Mechanical Technology Inc. That was about the same time Mr. Bruno made personal investments in both companies, according to his legislative financial disclosure statements.

After Plug Power went public in 1999 its stock skyrocketed, reaching $150 a share before beginning a long decline in 2000; today it trades at less than $4. Mechanical Technology’s stock suffered a similarly steep decline in those years. Mr. Bruno personally lost $36,700 and his committee lost $117,800 in the two stocks when the shares were sold in 2005, Mr. McArdle said. Despite the dismal outcome, he asserted that the investments were viewed at the time as smart alternatives to the meager returns being offered by banks.

“Back then, there was a thought that these types of investments were worth making because the analysts were saying these would be good in the long run,” he said. “Everybody was investing in them.”

The $500,000 in public money that Mr. Bruno helped win in 2001 was for a fuel cell research project involving Plug Power and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, which is in Mr. Bruno’s district. In an interview last month, Cynthia Mahoney White, a spokeswoman for Plug Power, said Mr. Bruno “has been very supportive of us,” although she said the company knew nothing about his investments in Plug Power.

In 2001, Mr. Bruno arranged for both campaign committees to lend money to Capital Center Credit, which specialized in providing financing for the installation of security equipment sold by the Integrated Alarm Services Group, another company run by Mr. McGinn. Mr. McArdle said the loans were repaid on a monthly basis, at an interest rate of slightly more than 9 percent, until 2003, when Capital Center’s debt was assumed by Integrated Alarm and was repaid at a new interest rate of 10 percent. The loans were paid in full in late 2004.

Mr. McGinn is a principal in McGinn, Smith & Company, an investment firm that recently received a subpoena from the grand jury investigating Mr. Bruno’s business activities. The Village Voice reported in 1997 that McGinn, Smith was once a client of Mr. Bruno’s private consulting business. In 1999, Mr. Bruno disclosed making a profit from the sale of stock he owned in the Pointe Financial Corporation, a Florida-based bank holding company for which Mr. McGinn was vice chairman and an investor.

Mr. McGinn did not return a call to his office seeking comment. Mr. McArdle said Mr. Bruno directed the investment in Mr. McGinn’s company not out of any favoritism, but because “interest rates at that time were around 1 or 2 percent, and this promised a much better rate of return.”
323 2007-01-13 GENEVA, Jan. 12 — The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Friday that she was optimistic the collapsed Doha trade negotiations could be restarted, but added that there were still obstacles to a revival of the talks.

“I am more optimistic than I have been in many months that we are on a path that could help reach a successful conclusion of the Doha round,” Ms. Schwab said after a three-hour meeting with the head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy.

But she added that “ultimately it will be substance that dictates when there’s a breakthrough.”

The next few weeks are considered critical to whether the new political impetus could be maintained.

Mr. Lamy, who met with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain in London on Tuesday as part of his step-by-step diplomacy, is also expected to visit India. In the next few weeks, he is scheduled to visit a group of African countries and make stops in Brussels and Washington. The meetings of about 25 trade ministers in late January during the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, are also considered crucial.

Ms. Schwab distanced herself on Friday from the upbeat assessment of Peter Mandelson, the European trade commissioner, who said the talks were approaching “the endgame.” She reiterated that an agreement on important issues, like agricultural market access, would dictate whether a deal could be hammered out.

In recent weeks, diplomatic activity and support for a deal at high levels in capitals around the world have lifted hopes that the talks could be revived. The talks, which were started in Doha, Qatar, in November 2001, collapsed in late July because of major differences over agricultural subsidies and tariffs primarily among countries like the United States, the European Union, Japan, India, Australia and Brazil.

President Bush and José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, meeting Monday in Washington, instructed their negotiators to push ahead with the talks.
324 2007-01-13 About an hour later, the 52-year-old doctor was declared dead.

Mr. Kopp, who traveled from his home in Jersey City to the Buffalo area weeks before the shooting to track Dr. Slepian and make meticulous preparations, including burying the rifle in a plastic sleeve behind the house so he could easily get to it, fled to Mexico, then France. He was captured there in March 2001.

In March 2003 Mr. Kopp was convicted of murder by an Erie County judge after an unusual proceeding in which he did not dispute the prosecution’s version of events. Yet he insisted he was not guilty of murder because he did not mean to kill the doctor but only to wound him to prevent him from performing abortions.

Nonetheless, he is back in court because of the same crime.

The difference is that this time Mr. Kopp is not charged with the murder of Dr. Slepian, but with violating a 1994 law forbidding the use of force to prevent access to reproductive health care. The federal law was enacted in reaction to violent attacks on abortion clinics and health care workers, as well as escalating protests, like the 1993 demonstrations in Buffalo known as “The Spring of Life,” which attracted thousands of demonstrators on both sides of the issue and led to hundreds of arrests.

In this instance, Dr. Slepian’s family and supporters of abortion rights pushed for this case to go forward, in part because unlike the state’s murder conviction, the federal law carries a potential sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole.

“Under New York State law, it’s conceivable that someday a parole board could release him,” said Charles Ewing, a professor at the University at Buffalo’s law school. “As a practical matter, I don’t think that would ever happen.”

Professor Ewing said that although the filing of both state and federal charges is common in cases involving such crimes as bank robbery and child pornography, a conviction in one jurisdiction usually leads to a dismissal in the other.

“It seems in this case they’re clearly trying to make an example by prosecuting him in both state and federal courts,” Professor Ewing said.

The trial in Federal District Court has also provided Mr. Kopp, a former construction worker who is acting as his own attorney, the chance to try to discuss his views on abortion, even though Judge Richard J. Arcara has repeatedly ordered him not to.

The judge’s pretrial rulings that the defense could not make the issue the centerpiece of its case, including his refusal to allow Mr. Kopp to show the anti-abortion movie “The Silent Scream” to the jury, have not stopped the defendant from trying.

“If I’m guilty, weakness is guilty,” Mr. Kopp, a slight man in an oversize dark blue suit coat and glasses, said in his opening statement on Tuesday. “If I’m guilty, innocence is guilty. Those who can’t protect themselves ——”

Judge Arcara cut him off, the sixth time Mr. Kopp’s opening was interrupted, either from the bench or by a sustained objection from the prosecution.

The judge ruled that references to Mr. Kopp’s views on abortion he made in a rambling 90-minute presentencing statement in 2003 were “irrelevant” to this case. The decision prompted one man seated two rows behind Lynne Slepian, Dr. Slepian’s widow, to shout, “Judge, what are they irrelevant to?” before he was escorted from the courtroom.

When Dan Herbeck, a reporter for The Buffalo News to whom Mr. Kopp gave a jailhouse confession in an article published in November 2002, testified about the article, Mr. Kopp made numerous attempts to bring up quotations related to his beliefs. Each time, the prosecution objected successfully, on several occasions before he even finished his question.

Professor Ewing said Mr. Kopp’s best chance to air his views could come in his closing statement, when lawyers are generally given more leeway than during testimony. The trial is expected to last about two more weeks.

“I don’t think that this defendant feels there’s a lot at stake in terms of winning or losing,” he said.
325 2007-01-13 SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 12 — In the turf war that has come to characterize the computer chip market, Advanced Micro Devices, appears to have stumbled in the fourth quarter.

A.M.D., the second-largest maker of the microprocessors, issued a warning late Thursday that its fourth-quarter revenue would miss Wall Street’s forecasts because of lower unit prices, signaling that the price war between A.M.D. and its main rival, Intel, had taken its toll.

On Friday, shares of A.M.D fell $1.92, to $18.26. Shares of Intel rose 21 cents, to $22.13.

A.M.D., based in Sunnyvale, Calif., said that it expected fourth-quarter revenue to increase about 3 percent, or about $1.37 billion, over the third quarter. Fourth-quarter operating income, the company said, “is expected to be positive but substantially lower than the third quarter.”

In October, analysts forecast A.M.D.’s fourth-quarter sales would be about $1.44 billion, excluding revenue gained from its $5.4 billion acquisition of ATI. A.M.D. executives said at the time that they expected a “seasonally strong” fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season.

The chip maker said its fourth quarter gross margin and operating income were hurt by lower average selling prices, though unit sales rose over all.
326 2007-01-13 The 2003 law prohibits such negotiations. The drug benefit is delivered by private insurers, subsidized by the government. These companies have negotiated substantial discounts with drug manufacturers. Under the House bill, insurers could seek discounts deeper than those negotiated by the government.

Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, predicted that the bill would die “a nice benign death.”

The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, said, “If this bill is presented to the president, he will veto it.”

Democrats, who like to portray Republicans as a tool of special interests, said a veto would hand them an issue that could be used to good effect in the 2008 elections.

Some experts, including the Congressional Budget Office and Medicare actuaries, say they doubt that the bill would save money for older people or the government.

If the government, for example, tried to negotiate a discount for a particular drug and the manufacturer refused to lower its price, it is not clear what, if any, recourse Medicare would have. Without the ability to steer patients to particular drugs, the budget office said, Medicare would not have the leverage to obtain significant discounts.

Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, described the bill as “a solution in search of a problem.” The cost of the drug benefit is lower than expected, Mr. Price said, and the number of drug plans available to beneficiaries — more than 40 in every state — is higher than expected.

In the House debate, each party used somewhat contradictory arguments. Republicans said the bill would not save any money because the government could not restrict access to drugs. But then they said the legislation would limit the drugs available to doctors and patients.

“A government bureaucrat will be empowered to determine what kinds of drugs our seniors have access to,” the Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, said. “If the government could not reach a deal with a drug company, seniors would not have access to those drugs.”

For their part, Democrats said Medicare was overpaying for drugs and could obtain much lower prices if it negotiated with drug manufacturers, as the Department of Veterans Affairs does. But Democrats said they did not want to give Medicare two of the most powerful tools used by the veterans agency: the ability to establish a “federal ceiling price” and a uniform list of covered drugs, known as a national formulary.

While sketchy about details of their proposal, Democrats were clear that their purpose was to help beneficiaries and to reduce drug companies’ profits in the Medicare market.

Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and chief sponsor of the bill, said, “Those who insist that the sky will fall if drug companies negotiate lower prescription prices are arguing that those companies should continue to skin a fat hog at the expense of taxpayers and beneficiaries.”

Another Democrat, Representative Lois Capps of California, said: “We can vote in favor of large drug companies that have raked in record profits under the Medicare drug plan. Or we can vote in favor of our senior constituents. Common sense tells me that the big drug and insurance companies would not be so adamantly opposed to this bill if they did not fear that it could result in actual price reductions.”

Republicans said Medicare drug plans already had the power to negotiate drug prices and were using it. But Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, said, “This power is splintered now among numerous private plans.”

The Medicare bill was one of the high-priority measures that Speaker Nancy Pelosi promised to pass in the first 100 hours of the new Congress.
327 2007-01-13 The Northwest Airlines Corporation filed a plan to exit bankruptcy yesterday as an independent company, aiming to give fresh stock to some creditors and raise capital from investors, including private equity firms.

The plan, which will be fleshed out in a more detailed filing next month, moves the airline a step closer to exiting bankruptcy.

Northwest has been in talks with Delta Air Lines, another airline in bankruptcy protection, about a possible link-up after exiting Chapter 11, according to media reports. Delta itself is the target of a $10.5 billion bid by the US Airways Group.

Northwest filed its plan in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan; it faced a deadline of next Tuesday, when the period in which it could file without interference from outside parties would end.

It also asked the court, with the consent of its creditors committee, to grant an extension until Feb. 15 to file a disclosure statement, which would give details of the restructuring plan.
328 2007-01-13 On paper, the “Sleeping Beauty” tale known today is simple, even silly: a harmless delight for children. It’s only in the telling that this Tchaikovsky story ballet can become a classic.

In Peter Martins’s sometimes overly efficient version, now in its second week of shows, this telling depends even more on the dancers. As illustrated by three successive viewings this week, different New York City Ballet performers revealed different aspects of the narrative — or, in the most dispiriting cases, obscured them.

On Tuesday, Ashley Bouder’s Princess Aurora illuminated the story’s full moral depth. She attacked the daunting Rose Adagio attitude balances with her usual fierce joy, wobbling a bit at first and then growing into majestic strength. Ms. Bouder is that rare ballerina you cherish even more for her missteps. She inhabits choreography so fully that you stop keeping score, so to speak; perfection is of interest in gymnastics, not art.

Making his debut as Prince Désiré, Benjamin Millepied matched her commitment. From his fine acting to his buoyant leaps, he portrayed the transition from a callow youth to an ardent suitor awakened by his desire to rouse Aurora. He could hardly believe his good luck. Neither could the audience.

As the Lilac Fairy, Amanda Hankes seemed wan by comparison, eyes too often downcast as though she were unsure of her steps, which never conveyed the necessary expansiveness. More convincing was Ellen Bar. In her debut on Wednesday, the benevolent fairy became a supple diva, well suited to battle Maria Kowroski’s deliciously wicked Carabosse. They were the same type of woman — one with whom you don’t trifle.

They sparred over Megan Fairchild, making her debut as Aurora. She gutted through the role’s formidable technical demands, offering a fragile, winsome Aurora. In his first crack at the role, Joaquin De Luz was every bit the prince, even if he didn’t seem quite right as her prince; compatible in size, the two are often partnered, but Mr. De Luz’s to-the-manner-born glamour and Ms. Fairchild’s quiet mischievousness do not always mix. Here, appreciation for their dancing did not build to a transformative experience.
329 2007-01-13 BEIJING, Jan. 12 — Human rights conditions in China deteriorated last year even as China sought to portray itself as an increasingly open, modern society ahead of the 2008 Olympics, Human Rights Watch said in a report on Friday.

The government’s promise to establish an impartial legal system remains unfulfilled, while at least 100 advocates of greater openness, including lawyers, writers, academics and grass-roots organizers, have faced prosecution, house arrest, beatings or other forms of harassment, the group said.

Propaganda officials have also placed restrictions on domestic news media, while investing ever greater resources in censoring online information that the leadership deems harmful to political stability.

“Several high-profile, politically motivated prosecutions of lawyers and journalists in 2006 put an end to any hopes that President Hu Jintao would be a progressive reformer,” the rights group, based in New York, said. “Domestic observers believe that these constraints will remain,” at least through the Olympics here.

Beijing promised in its bid for the Games that it would work to improve its human rights record. It also vowed to open its doors wider, allowing a freer flow of information into and out of the country.

China has fulfilled some aspects of that commitment. It announced new rules that would let reporters for foreign news media travel freely and interview people or companies without prior approval of local government authorities. But domestic critics say the space for them to express contrarian views, including online forums and Web sites, has shrunk.

The Foreign Ministry lashed out at the report on Thursday in advance of its official release.

“Regrettably, in spite of their observations, their eyesight has always had problems,” said a spokesman, Liu Jianchao. “Maybe they are wearing tinted glasses, or only squinting.”
330 2007-01-13 RIO DE JANEIRO, Jan. 12 — Acting at the request of Argentine officials, the Spanish police on Friday detained María Estela de Perón, the former president of Argentina and the widow of the founder of the ruling party, as part of a broadening investigation by the Peronist government of Argentina into past human rights abuses there.

A judge in the provincial city of Mendoza had issued an order on Thursday that Ms. Perón, known as Isabel, who lives in exile in Spain and gives her age as 75, be detained there for questioning regarding the disappearance of a student during her time in power. Almost simultaneously, a judge in Buenos Aires authorized the arrest of two other officials with ties to the late José López Rega, who was Gen. Juan Perón’s private secretary and later Ms. Perón’s closest adviser.

Those moves were made less than two weeks after Argentina requested that Spain extradite another notorious figure from that era. In each case, the proceedings focus on the Argentine Anti-Communist Alliance, or “Triple A,” a shadowy right-wing paramilitary death squad controlled by Mr. López Rega that first emerged when General Juan Perón was in power and accelerated its activities during his widow’s tenure.

Ms. Perón governed Argentina for less than two years, from her husband’s death in July 1974 until she was overthrown by a military coup on March 24, 1976. Human rights groups have blamed the Triple A for the killings of at least 1,500 political opponents, most of which occurred when Ms. Perón, a former cabaret dancer who was the general’s third wife, was in power.

Ms. Perón’s defense has always been that as “a poor ignorant woman” with no political experience or skills, as she put it in testimony in Spain in 1997, she had no idea what was being done in her name. But the Mendoza judge rejected that argument, saying in an interview with a local radio station that “she was the chief executive of the nation” and the abductions of people later killed “were made on the basis of decrees” she had signed.

Civilian democratic rule in Argentina was restored nearly 25 years ago. At that time, human rights and political leaders said, political parties negotiated an agreement that, at the insistence of the Peronists, effectively made human rights abuses that occurred before the military coup off limits to official investigations.
331 2007-01-13 Joe Biden, the new chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, warned Condi on Thursday that Mr. Bush did not have the authority to pursue the networks over the border into Iran or Syria. On Friday, Bob Gates assured the Senate Armed Services Committee that the Iranians they target won’t be in Iran.

We’re trying to stanch a self-inflicted wound: our failed occupation gave Iran the opening in Iraq we’re now trying to shut down.

The White House had to admit this week what has been obvious to everybody else for eons, including a list of lame assumptions they embraced during the first few years of the occupation: “Majority of Iraqis will support the coalition and Iraqi efforts to build a democratic state” has now been supplanted by “Iraqis increasingly disillusioned with coalition efforts.”

It’s a remarkable moment, W. standing nearly alone, deserted by more and more Republicans, generals and Americans, risking it all on a weak reed like Prime Minister Maliki.

It’s impossible to know what W. was really thinking as he stiffly delivered his fantasy scheme in the White House library. The whole capital was fraught, but the president may simply have been musing to himself: “I’m hungry ... I wonder what time the game starts on ESPN? ...Has anybody read all these books?”

W. always acts like he’s upping the ante in a board game where you roll the dice and bet your plastic army divisions on the outcome. This doesn’t surprise some of his old classmates at Yale, who remember Junior as the riskiest Risk player of them all, known for dropping by the rooms of friends, especially when they were trying to study for exams, for extended bouts of “The Game of Global Domination.”

Junior was known as an extremely aggressive player in the venerable Parker Brothers board game, a brutal contest that requires bluster and bluffing as you invade countries, all the while betraying alliances. Notably, it’s almost impossible to win Risk and conquer the world if you start the game in the Middle East, because you’re surrounded by enemies.

His gamesmanship extended to sports — he loved going into overtime and demanding that points be played over because he wasn’t quite ready.

As Graydon Carter recollects in the new Vanity Fair, Gail Sheehy wrote an article for the magazine about W. that made this point: “Even if he loses, his friends say, he doesn’t lose. He’ll just change the score, or change the rules, or make his opponent play until he can beat him.”

W.’s best friend when he was a teenager in Houston, Doug Hannah, told Ms. Sheehy: “If you were playing basketball and you were playing to 11 and he was down, you went to 15.”

Even if it was clear who was winning, W. wanted to go further to see what would happen. It was a technique that worked well in Tallahassee in 2000, but not so well in Tikrit.

Word is that even as they Surge, the Bush team is already working on Plan C, or as they will no doubt call it, The New, New Way Forward II.
332 2007-01-13 A passing exchange during a Senate hearing on Thursday turned into a political flashpoint overnight as Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice accused one another of insensitivity in comments about m...
333 2007-01-13 The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Friday that she was optimistic the collapsed Doha trade negotiations could be restarted, but added that there were still obstacles to a revival of the talks.     ''I am more optimistic ...
334 2007-01-14 Stanley Fish reconsiders his position on affirmative action....
335 2007-01-14 The military and the C.I.A. have long been restricted in their domestic intelligence operations, and both are barred from conducting traditional domestic law enforcement work. The C.I.A.’s role within the United States has been largely limited to recruiting people to spy on foreign countries.

Carl Kropf, a spokesman for the director of national intelligence, said intelligence agencies like the C.I.A. used the letters on only a “limited basis.”

Pentagon officials defended the letters as valuable tools and said they were part of a broader strategy since the Sept. 11 attacks to use more aggressive intelligence-gathering tactics — a priority of former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. The letters “provide tremendous leads to follow and often with which to corroborate other evidence in the context of counterespionage and counterterrorism,” said Maj. Patrick Ryder, a Pentagon spokesman.

Government lawyers say the legal authority for the Pentagon and the C.I.A. to use national security letters in gathering domestic records dates back nearly three decades and, by their reading, was strengthened by the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act.

Pentagon officials said they used the letters to follow up on a variety of intelligence tips or leads. While they would not provide details about specific cases, military intelligence officials with knowledge of them said the military had issued the letters to collect financial records regarding a government contractor with unexplained wealth, for example, and a chaplain at Guantánamo Bay erroneously suspected of aiding prisoners at the facility.

Usually, the financial documents collected through the letters do not establish any links to espionage or terrorism and have seldom led to criminal charges, military officials say. Instead, the letters often help eliminate suspects.

“We may find out this person has unexplained wealth for reasons that have nothing to do with being a spy, in which case we’re out of it,” said Thomas A. Gandy, a senior Army counterintelligence official.

But even when the initial suspicions are unproven, the documents have intelligence value, military officials say. In the next year, they plan to incorporate the records into a database at the Counterintelligence Field Activity office at the Pentagon to track possible threats against the military, Pentagon officials said. Like others interviewed, they would speak only on the condition of anonymity.

Military intelligence officers have sent letters in up to 500 investigations over the last five years, two officials estimated. The number of letters is likely to be well into the thousands, the officials said, because a single case often generates letters to multiple financial institutions. For its part, the C.I.A. issues a handful of national security letters each year, agency officials said. Congressional officials said members of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees had been briefed on the use of the letters by the military and the C.I.A.

Some national security experts and civil liberties advocates are troubled by the C.I.A. and military taking on domestic intelligence activities, particularly in light of recent disclosures that the Counterintelligence Field Activity office had maintained files on Iraq war protesters in the United States in violation of the military’s own guidelines. Some experts say the Pentagon has adopted an overly expansive view of its domestic role under the guise of “force protection,” or efforts to guard military installations.

“There’s a strong tradition of not using our military for domestic law enforcement,” said Elizabeth Rindskopf Parker, a former general counsel at both the National Security Agency and the C.I.A. who is the dean at the McGeorge School of Law at the University of the Pacific. “They’re moving into territory where historically they have not been authorized or presumed to be operating.”

Similarly, John Radsan, an assistant general counsel at the C.I.A. from 2002 to 2004 and now a law professor at William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul, said, “The C.I.A. is not supposed to have any law enforcement powers, or internal security functions, so if they’ve been issuing their own national security letters, they better be able to explain how they don’t cross the line.”

The Pentagon’s expanded intelligence-gathering role, in particular, has created occasional conflicts with other federal agencies. Pentagon efforts to post American military officers at embassies overseas to gather intelligence for counterterrorism operations or future war plans has rankled some State Department and C.I.A. officials, who see the military teams as duplicating and potentially interfering with the intelligence agency.

In the United States, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has complained about military officials dealing directly with local police — rather than through the bureau — for assistance in responding to possible terrorist threats against a military base. F.B.I. officials say the threats have often turned out to be uncorroborated and, at times, have stirred needless anxiety.

The military’s frequent use of national security letters has sometimes caused concerns from the businesses receiving them, a counterterrorism official said. Lawyers at financial institutions, which routinely provide records to the F.B.I. in law enforcement investigations, have contacted bureau officials to say they were confused by the scope of the military’s requests and whether they were obligated to turn the records over, the official said.

Companies are not eager to turn over sensitive financial data about customers to the government, the official said, “so the more this is done, and the more poorly it’s done, the more pushback there is for the F.B.I.”

The bureau has frequently relied on the letters in recent years to gather telephone and Internet logs, financial information and other records in terrorism investigations, serving more than 9,000 letters in 2005, according to a Justice Department tally. As an investigative tool, the letters present relatively few hurdles; they can be authorized by supervisors rather than a court. Passage of the Patriot Act in October 2001 lowered the standard for issuing the letters, requiring only that the documents sought be “relevant” to an investigation and allowing records requests for more peripheral figures, not just targets of an inquiry.

Some Democrats have accused the F.B.I. of using the letters for fishing expeditions, and the American Civil Liberties Union won court challenges in two cases, one for library records in Connecticut and the other for Internet records in Manhattan. Concerned about possible abuses, Congress imposed new safeguards in extending the Patriot Act last year, in part by making clear that recipients of national security letters could contact a lawyer and seek court review. Congress also directed the Justice Department inspector general to study the F.B.I.’s use of the letters, a review that is continuing.

Unlike the F.B.I., the military and the C.I.A. do not have wide-ranging authority to seek records on Americans in intelligence investigations. But the expanded use of national security letters has allowed the Pentagon and the intelligence agency to collect records on their own. Sometimes, military or C.I.A. officials work with the F.B.I. to seek records, as occurred with an American translator who had worked for the military in Iraq and was suspected of having ties to insurgents.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Rumsfeld directed military lawyers and intelligence officials to examine their legal authorities to collect intelligence both inside the United States and abroad. They concluded that the Pentagon had “way more” legal tools than it had been using, a senior Defense Department official said.

Military officials say the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, which establishes procedures for government access to sensitive banking data, first authorized them to issue national security letters. The military had used the letters sporadically for years, officials say, but the pace accelerated in late 2001, when lawyers and intelligence officials concluded that the Patriot Act strengthened their ability to use the letters to seek financial records on a voluntary basis and to issue mandatory letters to obtain credit ratings, the officials said.

The Patriot Act does not specifically mention military intelligence or C.I.A. officials in connection with the national security letters.

Some F.B.I. officials said they were surprised by the Pentagon’s interpretation of the law when military officials first informed them of it. “It was a very broad reading of the law,” a former counterterrorism official said.

While the letters typically have been used to trace the financial transactions of military personnel, they also have been used to investigate civilian contractors and people with no military ties who may pose a threat to the military, officials said. Military officials say they regard the letters as one of the least intrusive means to gather evidence. When a full investigation is opened, one official said, it has now become “standard practice” to issue such letters.

One prominent case in which letters were used to obtain financial records, according to two military officials, was that of a Muslim chaplain at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, who was suspected in 2003 of aiding terror suspects imprisoned at the facility. The espionage case against the chaplain, James J. Yee, soon collapsed.

Eugene Fidell, a defense lawyer for the former chaplain and a military law expert, said he was unaware that military investigators may have used national security letters to obtain financial information about Mr. Yee, nor was he aware that the military had ever claimed the authority to issue the letters.

Mr. Fidell said he found the practice “disturbing,” in part because the military does not have the same checks and balances when it comes to Americans’ civil rights as does the F.B.I. “Where is the accountability?” he asked. “That’s the evil of it — it doesn’t leave fingerprints.”

Even when a case is closed, military officials said they generally maintain the records for years because they may be relevant to future intelligence inquiries. Officials at the Pentagon’s counterintelligence unit say they plan to incorporate those records into a database, called Portico, on intelligence leads. The financial documents will not be widely disseminated, but limited to investigators, an intelligence official said.

“You don’t want to destroy something only to find out that the same guy comes up in another report and you don’t know that he was investigated before,” the official said.

The Counterintelligence Field Activity office, created in 2002 to better coordinate the military’s efforts to combat foreign intelligence services, has drawn criticism for some domestic intelligence activities.

The agency houses an antiterrorist database of intelligence tips and threat reports, known as Talon, which had been collecting information on antiwar planning meetings at churches, libraries and other locations. The Defense Department has since tightened its procedures for what kind of information is allowed into the Talon database, and the counterintelligence office also purged more than 250 incident reports from the database that officials determined should never have been included because they centered on lawful political protests by people opposed to the war in Iraq.
336 2007-01-14 Switzerland’s 26 cantons wield enormous power over their own taxation systems, setting their own tax levels with local citizens weighing in at the ballot box. Their autonomy has allowed the flourishing of a discreet, let’s-make-a-deal tax system for rich foreigners who, unlike the Swiss themselves, are allowed to negotiate lump-sum tax agreements.

The immigrants negotiate an annual payment amounting to five times the monthly rental value of their Swiss homes. The deal has proved to be an irresistible call to the rich, drawing Ikea’s billionaire founder, Ingvar Kamprad, and close behind him in net worth, Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian aluminum and petroleum magnate and collector of jewel-studded Fabergé eggs. Mr. Kamprad, an 80-year-old Swede fabled for his frugality and vintage Volvo, lives near Lausanne.

But along with corporate titans, Switzerland is also home to an assortment of celebrities, including the German racing champion Michael Schumacher, the cyclist Jan Ullrich, also of Germany, and the pop singers Phil Collins of England and Tina Turner of the United States.

It is such a Mecca for French athletes that when Mr. Hallyday started feeling political heat for his departure, the French tennis star Amélie Mauresmo defended Swiss tax migration from her Geneva redoubt in an interview with the Swiss daily newspaper Le Matin: “To live in Geneva is a lifestyle choice along with financial reasons. Leading a normal existence in Paris is much more complicated.”

Negotiating the Swiss tax system can also be complicated, but cantons are eager to court the superrich. And so a thriving cottage industry of lawyers and advisers has evolved to shepherd potential new residents by negotiating individual agreements, known as forfaits, with canton authorities.

“We have seen an increase in wealthier people applying for forfaits,” said Stephanie Jarrett, a tax lawyer with Baker & McKenzie in Geneva. “It’s now allowed everywhere, and in some cantons you can get a better deal than others. The rates are much higher in Geneva than in other cantons where they really need the income, and so they offer much lower rates.”

Aside from tax advantages, she said, wealthy foreigners are attracted because the nation is considered safe, a particularly appealing factor for Latin Americans yearning to escape kidnapping threats in their own countries.

On the other hand, some expatriates find it difficult to adapt to an insular and placid culture, and the availability of luxury housing in high-demand areas like Geneva is limited. Le Matin issued a blunt public warning to Mr. Hallyday about the perils of tranquillity, urging him to stay in France unless he was “mad about skiing, walking and solitude.”

Cantons are eager to draw wealthy foreigners, who offer a quick way of raising revenues when they are facing reductions in public spending. Local authorities have also been slashing corporate and personal rates for Swiss residents in a race that the association of canton finance chiefs has criticized as excessive.

Anetta Bundi, a reporter with the German-language Zurich newspaper Tages-Anzeiger who has covered the issue, said the chief argument in favor of tax perks for foreigners is that wealthy residents will help the economy as their riches trickle down to local businesses.

“There are a lot of people who think this is not just and should be abolished,” she said, but the fear is that if such steps were taken they would simply cause the flight of a highly mobile elite to other receptive places like Belgium.

Canton authorities are so eager to roll out the welcome mat that it sometimes draws unwelcome attention in a society that prides itself on discretion.

Last year, the local authorities in the canton of Graubünden announced an investigation of lump-sum tax benefits granted to Flora Bartolini, the mother-in-law of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. The controversy involved the issuance of a Swiss residency permit in 2004 to Ms. Bartolini although she had not lived in the house, an imposing former bank, while it was being renovated.

Mr. Schumacher’s tax deal in Lucerne was thwarted when people discovered that the canton had offered him special rates, exclusive landing rights for his private jet and support for finding an appropriate piece of property. But now he lives near Lake Geneva, a region that has drawn other wealthy racing drivers like Fernando Alonso and Alain Prost.

Joseph Zisyadis, a member of the Swiss Parliament and a longtime opponent of the tax deals, calls the system a return to the Middle Ages where “the richer you are, the less you contribute.”

“When Johnny Hallyday comes to Switzerland, he loves the tranquillity and the security,” Mr. Zisyadis said. “He loves that the country is clean. All of this costs money. And who pays for this if the rich don’t pay for this?”
337 2007-01-14 This week a Supreme Court judge nonetheless ordered the government to speed up the process of finding 41 men listed as missing by Mrs. Janjua and her supporters after the court took up their cases in an unprecedented decision in October.

At the court hearing on Monday, the government acknowledged that it had located 25 of the 41 men listed by Mrs. Janjua, “who are now free,” according to Nasir Saeed Sheikh, the deputy attorney general, though it refused to say from where they had been released.

Mrs. Janjua and others said the men were held in detention centers and safe houses of military intelligence, though most of those freed were reluctant to talk about their experiences. Mrs. Janjua maintained that only 18 persons had actually been freed.

Her husband, Masood Ahmed Janjua, 45, an educator and businessman, was not among them. Mr. Sheikh told the court that, according to a report by the Interior Ministry, all intelligence agencies had denied detaining Mr. Janjua.

Mr. Janjua left his home around 9:30 a.m. on July 30, 2005. He was heading to Peshawar in the northwest to attend a religious gathering with a friend, Faisal Fraz, 26, a mechanical engineer from the eastern city of Lahore.

Both had reservations on a 10 o’clock bus bound for Peshawar, but never made it to their destination, according to the families. “Before even reaching the bus stop, somewhere on the way, they were picked up,” Mrs. Janjua says.

Relatives of missing persons and rights advocates here say Mr. Janjua and the others are among the many “forced disappearances” or “illegal detentions” that were rare before 2001. In many cases, family members have received no news of the presumed detainees for months and even years.

“Hundreds of people suspected of links to Al Qaeda or the Taliban have been arbitrarily arrested and detained,” a report by Amnesty International issued in September said. “Scores have become victims of enforced disappearances; some of these have been unlawfully transferred (sometimes in return for money) to the custody of other countries, notably the U.S.A.,” the report said.

“The clandestine nature of the arrest and detention of terror suspects make it impossible to ascertain exactly how many people have been subjected to arbitrary detention or enforced disappearance,” it added.

I. A. Rahman, director of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, said the government was using the cover of a war on terrorism to flout the law. “Unstable states like Pakistan are taking full advantage of ‘war on terror,’ ” Mr. Rahman said. He said the government was using the antiterror campaign to crack down on its opponents and critics, especially in Baluchistan, where government forces are fighting a nationalist insurrection.

“It is correct that many of those arrested or detained were connected with Al Qaeda or extremist organizations,” he said. “But a number of people have been taken into custody whose only crime seems to be that they are nationalists in Baluchistan or Sindh. In Baluchistan, there is no Al Qaeda activity,” he said.

In cases that are brought before a court, he noted, a government denial of detention basically closes the case on a habeas corpus petition. “It was only in the end of 2006 that the Supreme Court said the government must find out where are these people,” he said.

While many of those missing persons were suspected of having links to extremist or terrorist activities or have been involved in them, many among them were innocent, the relatives maintained.

Majid Khan, 26, a computer engineer, disappeared from of Karachi, a southern port city, four years ago and is now in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, said his wife, Rabiya Majid. “We don’t why he was arrested,” she said.

Mrs. Janjua, too, says she has no clue as to why her husband disappeared. The Janjua family lives in Rawalpindi, in the neighborhood of Westridge, a relatively well-off enclave inhabited mostly by active and retired military officers.

Before his disappearance, Mr. Janjua, who holds a bachelor’s degree in marine engineering, was working as managing director of a private institute here, the College of Information and Technology. He was also running a travel agency and involved in charity work, his wife said.

“He had no links with any extremist organization,” Mrs. Janjua said, though she acknowledged that he worked “off and on” with Tablighi Jamaat. The group characterizes itself as a nonpolitical, nonviolent movement that seeks to spread Orthodox Islam by proselytizing, but it has also come under suspicion by authorities as a potential recruiting ground for extremists.

Since her husband’s disappearance, Mrs. Janjua has taken over his business and his work at the college in addition to leading the drive, with the other families, to find the missing. Together they have formed a group called Defense of Human Rights.

In the last week of December, wives, daughters and sisters of dozens of missing men, led by Mrs. Janjua, gathered in Rawalpindi, holding up posters and portraits of the missing men and shouting, “Give our loved ones back.”

But their protest was quickly thwarted by the police. The photographs of the missing men were snatched. The posters were confiscated.

Mrs. Janjua’s eldest son, Muhammad, 17, was beaten by the police, who removed his pants to humiliate him before they whisked him away in a police van. He was freed that evening but the next morning the image of Muhammad with his baggy trousers pulled down by the police appeared in newspapers across the country. Op-ed columnists and editorials expressed outrage at police “brutality” and sympathy for the missing people’s families surged.

Some of those released, like Muhammad Tariq, 35, have returned home. He is one of the few willing to talk. Mr. Tariq acknowledges that he formerly belonged to Jaish-e-Muhammad, a banned extremist group, but says he just gave the group money and was not an active member.

Mr. Tariq, a business owner from Gujranwala in the east who sells iron pipe, was “picked up in broad daylight on June 14, 2004, by around a dozen plainclothesmen and elite police commandos,” his father, Nizamud Din, said in an interview.

Mr. Din said he had been unsuccessful in locating his son through the courts, police officials and even the Senate’s Standing Committee on Human Rights. “He was portrayed as a big catch — a big terrorist,” Mr. Din said.

President Pervez Musharraf even alluded to the case, without mentioning Mr. Tariq by name, in his book “In the Line of Fire” in connection with a failed assassination attempt in December 2003, Mr. Din said.

General Musharraf wrote in his memoirs that a person from Gujranwala gave refuge to Abu Faraj al-Libbi, the No. 3 Qaeda leader. He was arrested in Pakistan in May 2005 and accused of organizing the failed assassination.

“It is all nonsense,” Mr. Tariq said. “I have no link. I don’t even know Libbi.”

Mr. Tariq says he was singled out because in 2003 he briefly put up a family, introduced to him through a friend, of an Arab man who had been arrested in Quetta.

Mr. Tariq, a father of five, stammers while recounting his time in detention.

“For two years, I did not see the sky, the sun or the moon,” he said. He said he was kept in a 4 foot by 7 foot cell in this city, was interrogated by Pakistani military officers, mostly about Mr. Libbi, and endured “all kinds of imaginable torture.”

He was released Nov. 27 and pushed from a vehicle at night at an intersection near Islamabad. He said he had never been brought before a court. Mr. Din and Mr. Tariq said they believed the release was a result of the pressure from Mrs. Janjua’s group and the Supreme Court case.

Mrs. Janjua hopes her husband will return the same way, some day soon. “At every doorbell,” she said, “I think he is back.”
338 2007-01-14 It is difficult to overstate how deeply these ghosts hurt the war effort. Most obviously, we have no idea how much of this money is being siphoned off to support tribal and ethnic fighting, and even the insurgency itself.

Also, because hundreds and thousands of ghosts exist at all echelons, many military and police units in the field do not have nearly as many men at arms as they seem to have on paper. Thus the units are often assigned tasks for which they do not have necessary manpower. And when American or other coalition forces are asked to “partner” with Iraqi troops, we have often found that there simply aren’t enough bodies to conduct training and missions.

American officials have long been aware of this problem. “The number of trained and equipped security forces does not provide a complete picture of their capabilities and may overstate the number of forces on duty,” was the finding of the Government Accountability Office’s “Stabilizing Iraq” report last fall. “For example, Ministry of Interior data include police who are absent without leave.”

Those of us on the ground discovered this the hard way. When I was with the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Nineveh Province in 2005, we tried for months to get the names of all Iraqi security personnel in our sector on the payrolls of the Ministries of Interior and Defense. We were curious because when we tried to assess the effectiveness of the Iraqi Border Police brigade in Sinjar, on the Syrian border, we were told by Iraqi commanders that at least 300 officers were “performing guard duties in Mosul.” Mosul is more than 100 miles inside Iraq, so border troops had no business there, if indeed they existed at all.

Similarly, in South Baghdad, we American advisers assigned to the Fourth Brigade of the Sixth Iraqi Army Division had little luck getting a clear read of the brigade’s strength. Iraqi commanders repeatedly told us that many of their men were “elsewhere, performing security duties for the Ministry of Defense.” The advisers found personnel discrepancies as high as 30 percent in any given unit.

How can we bust the ghosts? Every soldier, police officer and government official is assigned a national identification number for bookkeeping, but so far it has been far too easy for corrupt officials to get numbers for nonexistent people. A better idea would be a universal national identification card for all government and military employees that includes the holder’s photograph and fingerprints.

Such cards should be required for any Iraqi to receive his paycheck. Both the distribution of the cards and the payroll-distribution sites should be jointly overseen by coalition and Iraqi officials. There is no reason such a system could not be in place by the end of the year.

It would also help if American advisers embedded with security forces were charged with ensuring that all Iraqis are actually on duty with their assigned units. Should Iraqi commanders refuse to cooperate with their audits, we must insist that the Iraqi government fire them.

The second major source of corruption I witnessed is what I call the “reverse Ho Chi Minh Trails” that facilitate smuggling of Iraqi oil and other resources out of the country. A United States interagency panel reported in November that oil smuggling abetted by corrupt Iraqi customs officials is netting the insurgents $100 million a year, helping to make them financially self-sustaining.

Because most of Iraq is landlocked, almost all goods going in and out pass through 14 land “ports of entry.” Smuggling has always been a part of Iraqi life, and was even more so during the last years of Saddam Hussein’s rule, because he encouraged it to counteract the embargo on Iraqi oil. Yet, almost immediately after the 2003 invasion, former customs officials from the regime resumed their duties at the ports of entry.

Later that year, we in the Third Armored Cavalry were given responsibility for the Syrian, Jordanian and Saudi Arabian borders along Anbar Province. In addition to helping create the new Iraqi Border Police force, we set about reforming the customs checkpoints.

At first, this was successful: for example, the border police battalion we trained at Walid, near the conjunction of the Syrian and Jordanian borders, uncovered many attempts to smuggle out large quantities of food, fuel, industrial parts and other goods. Hundreds of smugglers were arrested.

Unfortunately, we left Anbar in early 2004 and corrupt officials in Baghdad soon took away the border police’s oversight authority on the grounds that it wasn’t their “jurisdictional role to conduct operations that were assigned exclusively to customs officials.” American advisers at the national level failed to do anything about this, and things quickly reverted to the corrupt status quo.

The situation at Walid was hardly unique. In 2005 I returned to Iraq with the Third Armored Cavalry, this time to Nineveh Province, to cover the northern section of the border between Iraq and Syria. It soon became clear that the region’s port of entry, at Rabiya, was a hotbed of corruption. Not only were customs officials apparently turning a blind eye to smuggling, but they seemed to be directly engaged in it.

And little has changed: last month the American special inspector general for Iraq, Stuart Bowen, reported that the pipelines in the area have been blown up, so the only way to export oil is by road. He noted, “That leaves it vulnerable to smuggling as truckers sell their cargoes on the black market.”

How can we shut down this black market? First, we must insist that the Iraqi government replace the customs workers at the 14 land border crossings with a new set of at least 1,400 elite officials jointly selected and vetted by the Iraqi ministries and the coalition forces.

We should supplement this new force with teams of American advisers — soldiers, police officers, customs officials and the like — to ensure that the Iraqis are prepared to do their jobs. And we should create an anticorruption task force of coalition officers with the power to periodically review systemic issues like the Iraqis’ recruitment methods, policies governing potential ethical problems and records of internal discipline.

The Iraq Study Group concluded that “the ability of the United States to shape the outcomes is diminishing” and that “time is running out.” Those of us who have been on the ground know how true this is. Irrespective of the number and mission of United States forces sent to Iraq, winning or losing will depend in large part on our ability to, in General Wood’s phrasing, “give these people an example of good government.”
339 2007-01-14 The stock market turned in its best performance in months last week, with all three major indexes posting substantial gains.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed on Friday at a record high, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had its highest close since November 2000. For the Nasdaq composite index, Friday’s close was the highest since February 2001.

Strong earnings and economic reports buoyed the market. The Commerce Department said on Friday that retail sales climbed 0.9 percent in December. That was more than Wall Street had expected.

Alcoa, the big aluminum maker, gained 7.1 percent for the week, the best performance among the Dow industrials. It said on Tuesday that its profit in the fourth quarter jumped 60 percent from the year-earlier period.

For the week, the Dow rose 158.07 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 12,556.08. The S.& P. 500 climbed 21.02 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 1,430.73. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 68.57 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 2,502.82.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond jumped to 4.77 percent from 4.64 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
340 2007-01-14 Only in the United States could we decide to entrust to private enterprise something as fundamental to the Republic as the vote. I can think of no better symbol of misplaced faith.

You call for “strong transparency rules” through better legislation. But perfect transparency is available to us, if only we will seize it: the source code for all voting machines should be available to the public.

Thousands of computer scientists will happily inspect and criticize the code free of charge, obviating the need for certification. And there’s no tonic like public inspection to motivate companies — and programmers — to clean up their act.

It looks as if it will be a long time before it’s generally understood that the counting of votes should be a public process, not a private one, however vouchsafed.

Until then, we’ll have crooked elections. Or not.

Sadly, we won’t know which.
341 2007-01-14 You are correct in suggesting that middle-income New Jersey homeowners use an inordinate amount of their income to pay their property taxes.

This is particularly onerous for many retirees who frequently pay some 20 percent of their pension and Social Security income for property taxes, yet on the block where they live, a wealthier person with the same property assessment may pay only 5 percent of his income for property taxes.

Property taxes are regressive in that payments reflect property values rather than income, thus favoring the wealthy over the middle class and poor.

Reform will not occur through plans to reduce benefits for state employees because the prospect of labor unrest and political retribution in an election year will surely deter legislators from provoking a significant part of the electorate.

The fair and appropriate way to achieve property tax reform is to require those with the highest incomes to pay a higher state income tax and use that money to substantially finance education while reducing property taxes.

An interesting footnote to the racial and religious diversity described in “Reclaiming the Revolution” (Dec. 24) concerns the Colonel Tye mentioned in the article and the tiny community of Jewstown (the site of present-day Colts Neck).
342 2007-01-14 “October 1962” by D. W. Gregory, now having its world premiere at the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch, is an exercise in baby-boomer paranoia. Set against the backdrop of the Cuban missile crisis (a convenient weapon for upping the anxiety quotient of any narrative), it’s the story of a suburban nuclear family’s own implosion, triggered when a young man, implicated in a long-ago murder, returns to his childhood neighborhood.

Tommy, now old enough to ride a motorcycle, has recently been released from prison after serving time for killing a 7-year-old boy when he himself was still a boy. His neighbors, the seemingly ordinary Timmons brood — David and Laura and their daughters, Jean and Nan — have a few family skeletons of their own, which are significantly rattled by the proximity of Tommy and his mother.

Like the Cuban missile crisis, these mysterious characters are repeatedly alluded to but never seen, serving as the fearful engine that drives the family’s internecine theatrics. The drama takes place entirely within the household, specifically the living room and a glimpse of kitchen, persuasively created in dead-on 1960’s style by Carrie Mossman. Jean and Nan, played with giggly enthusiasm by Jenny Vallancourt and Juliet Kapanjie (whose performances become much stronger as the play progresses) are intrigued with Tommy and set about recording his — and their father’s — movements in a kind of fantasized diary.

For reasons of his own, David Timmons (convincingly played by James Patrick Earley) has hired Tommy to work for him. David’s wife, Laura (Kittson O’Neill), is jealous of Tommy’s red-haired mother. It seems that once upon a time, the two families were very close — too close for comfort, as the denouement of the play ultimately suggests.

Now that Tommy is back in town, long-buried tensions and memories resurface. Laura begins cocktail hour a bit too early, tries to sabotage Tommy’s job and quarrels with David. David soon realizes that things are spinning out of control. The gossipy town reproaches him for giving Tommy work, Tommy gets into scuffles with his hostile coworkers, and then there are Nan and Jean’s increasingly troublesome antics.

The drama culminates on Halloween, when the family is planning to attend the annual town parade. As the girls put on their costumes, other, deeper layers come off. David, about to attend an adversarial town meeting about Tommy, discovers that his daughters have disobeyed him by talking to the young man — and even worse, have kept a diary about it. But it’s not what’s in the diary — which the girls have turned into a mystery romance — but what is in Jean’s memory that is the major revelation.
343 2007-01-14 Brian McLaughlin, the chairman of the Rutgers philosophy department, said that in the 1980s the university consolidated its various colleges’ philosophy departments at the same time it was endowing what it called World Class Scholar Leader chairs. The department moved more quickly than other departments to ask for funds and was able to hire several good new professors.

“Like I said, it was cheaper than funding a physics lab: All we needed was a salary and an office, so the administration was supportive,” said Dr. Klein, who was the department chairman part of that time.

As the department’s reputation grew, along with the knowledge that there was money for new hires, more and more top graduate students came to Rutgers.

A similar thing happened at N.Y.U., Dr. Leiter said, with administrators lavishing money on humanities departments that required few physical elements. They also gave subsidies for Manhattan housing — “a huge draw for anyone,” he said.

By 2002, Rutgers was ranked No. 1, along with N.Y.U. and Princeton; in 2004, it was No. 2, behind N.Y.U. and ahead of Princeton.

While most in the field agree that Princeton, Rutgers and N.Y.U. are top philosophy departments, there is some carping about whether philosophy departments should be ranked like football teams. The American Philosophical Association says that it “does not rank departments of philosophy and their graduate and/or undergraduate programs nor does it sponsor, endorse, approve or encourage any national rankings.”

Dr. Leiter solicits recommendations from about 300 professors every two years to get his ratings, but critics say his raters are skewed toward analytic philosophy — the branch that emphasizes current, rather than historical, philosophy.

Dr. McLaughlin said that Rutgers is better in analytic philosophy — things like philosophy of the mind and language — while Princeton excels in more historic areas.

Some universities known to have good departments, like Penn State, Stony Brook and Vanderbilt, do not participate in the ratings.

“Schools like Rutgers and N.Y.U. emphasize analytic philosophy, and most of the evaluators emphasize that, so schools like Vanderbilt and Northwestern and Penn State, which don’t, aren’t going to do as well,” said John J. Stuhr, a philosophy professor at Vanderbilt. “It’s like asking about the best painters of all time. If you asked Cubists, you would get a list of Cubists; Impressionists, the same thing. I’m sure Rutgers has a good department. It just doesn’t emphasize what we do.”

Even at Rutgers, some are skeptical. “We are a society that is great for rankings, horse races, polls,” said Bruce W. Wilshire, a philosophy professor at the college for 37 years. “I’m not sure what anything like this does for us. I’m sure some people think it is nice, but it seems like in philosophy, we should not be emphasizing this sort of thing.”

Still, Dr. McLaughlin said that to the extent that people look at ratings, it has been good for Rutgers to be at the top. Because most graduate departments have only 6 to 12 new students a year, the competition for the best ones is great, and now Rutgers is getting its share.

“That only helps the undergrads taking courses, too,” Dr. McLaughlin said, noting that last year about 5,200 Rutgers undergraduates took philosophy courses, many taught by graduate students. “These are now grad students who will be teaching at Yale or Michigan, top places, in a few years. We have been able to place 100 percent of our grad students in teaching jobs, where the national average is about 60 percent.

“Leiter ratings or no, that says lots about how Rutgers is viewed, a real positive thing.”
344 2007-01-14 Connecticut courts can now require the installation of breath-activated ignition locks for repeat offenders, but judges seldom decide to order the locks. Mr. Blumenthal wants to make them mandatory. But he expects the same civil libertarian resistance he encountered in the 1980s, when the Legislature debated lowering blood alcohol limits. He saw it again before the enactment of the state’s “party law,” which fines residents who serve alcohol to minors in their homes. Recalling a testy public debate in Westport, Mr. Blumenthal said: “Many parents objected, saying they should be free to do whatever they want in their own home. Well, not if you enable kids to drink too much, assault one another, drive drunk and kill each other.”

Inalienable rights — a venerable Connecticut Yankee mantra — is a phrase that Sgt. Thomas Mrozek of the Fairfield Police Department has heard often in his 26 years arresting impaired drivers. Now the department’s D.U.I. Specialist and trainer, and a former state officer of MADD, he cites a recently arrested citizen — resoundingly drunk, according to the breath-analyzing Intoxilator — who called the station repeatedly after his arrest, insisting that piloting 3,500 pounds of steel, in whatever condition, was his absolute right.

Residents issued tickets for serving minors under the party law can be just as indignant. Sergeant Mrozek sees a frustrating disconnect: “This is the generation of parents that won’t let their kids skateboard or bike without pads and helmets. But they’ll throw a party and supply a keg.”

Sergeant Mrozek has his own theory on the state’s stalemate with drunken driving. “It’s because of judges and lawyers,” he says flatly, “and inadequate, confusing laws.” To underscore his point, Sergeant Mrozek had me exhale into his Intoxilator. I can attest that even with a certified 0.00 blood alcohol level, comprehending the version of Miranda rights that is read to drunks, a dense paragraph bristling with tormented language and serpentine caveats, is a challenge. The accompanying paperwork bumps the average arrest-and-process time to three hours.

How would Sergeant Mrozek get more drunks off the road? “I’d like to have a portable breath test on scene,” he said. “Take a sample, have the car towed, say, ‘Here’s your ticket, call a ride.’ Fifteen minutes, done.”

The state now has a single Breath Alcohol Testing Mobile, or BAT Mobile, deployed in the casino area. But few other municipalities will be able to ante up its $250,000 price tag.

For now, Sergeant Mrozek and Mr. Blumenthal take help where they can get it, working closely with MADD. They say the group’s purpose-driven outrage is getting results — in the courtroom, where volunteers help shattered families through trials; in Victim Impact Panels mandated for first-time offenders; and in a graphic, scared-straight education program, “The Hard Truth,” which is run in partnership with Waterbury Hospital and has been presented to 18,000 high school students. “I’ve seen kids faint more than once,” Mr. Blumenthal said. “MADD’s victims, their pictures and life stories, puts a face on our awful statistics.”

The friend who caused Lori Hudak’s death did jail time but has never apologized to the family. Mrs. Hudak says she understands. “The lawyers just don’t allow it,” she says. And since shame is not a viable weapon, Mrs. Hudak is content to go with shock. Week after week, she shows other people’s children her baggie, which also contains a lock of Lori’s hair, and tells them, “This is all I have.”
345 2007-01-14 So what’s the problem, the thing Abe Foxman is fighting or Foxman himself?

The Anti-Defamation League, which has an annual budget of more than $50 million, offers “anti-bias education and diversity training” through its World of Difference Institute; plays a major advocacy role in keeping church and state separate; monitors a vast array of extremist activity; publishes curricula on the Holocaust and on tolerance; and so on. But the league is, in the end, mostly Abe. Foxman is a domineering character who over the years, according to critics, has driven out potential rivals and successors. When I asked him whom else in the organization I should talk to, he couldn’t think of anyone, not even Kenneth Jacobson, the A.D.L.’s deputy national director and, others had told me, Foxman’s alter-ego. The A.D.L., for all its myriad activities, is a one-man Sanhedrin doling out opprobrium or absolution for those who speak ill of Israel or the Jews.

Foxman was born in Poland in 1940 as his parents fled before the Nazi advance. The following year, when the Nazis reached Lithuania, Foxman was placed with his Polish Catholic nanny, who pretended to be his mother and raised him — as a Catholic and, Foxman has written, as a Jew-hater. Both his parents, miraculously, survived the war and then reclaimed him, though not without a bitter fight. Foxman escaped the worst of the Holocaust, but it has deeply shaped his sense of the world and is presumably responsible for his feeling that nothing short of supreme and unflinching vigilance will ward off the next cataclysm. Perhaps his childhood also accounts for his air of brazen self-assertion. “Then he had to hide his identity,” as Jonathan Jacoby, the founder of the Israel Policy Forum, a liberal advocacy group, told me. “Now he’s the most out Jew in the world.”

Foxman grew up in Brooklyn and went to work at the A.D.L. immediately upon graduating from New York University Law School in 1965. An incisive and impassioned figure, he rose through the ranks to become associate director, and in 1987, when Nathan Perlmutter, the organization’s director, died, Foxman was the consensus choice to succeed him. These were heady times for the A.D.L. Though founded in 1913 to combat the mistreatment of Jews, the A.D.L. rapidly became one of the nation’s leading civil rights organizations and a cornerstone of the black-Jewish alliance. The rise of the black-power movement largely put an end to that sort of coalition, and in the 1970s and ’80s the A.D.L. turned its attention to extremism. The organization infiltrated its own volunteers into the John Birch Society, neo-Nazi groups and the like at a time when law enforcement paid them little heed. The A.D.L. was a major force behind the passage of hate-crime laws at the state and federal levels.

With anti-Semitism apparently waning, the A.D.L. might well have moved away from its original identity in favor of either promoting tolerance and diversity or leading the nonsectarian fight against extremism. But for Foxman, fighting anti-Semitism was always the core of the mission. The A.D.L.’s world became increasingly binary — “good for the Jews,” “bad for the Jews.” This change had the effect of moving the organization, as it had other mainstream Jewish bodies, to the right. Foxman upset many of his colleagues by extending a welcome to Christian conservatives, whose leaders tended to be strongly pro-Israel even as they spoke in disturbing terms of America’s “Christian” identity. Foxman was willing to cut them some slack on issues of social justice, and even of church-state relations, in the name of solidarity toward Israel. At the same time, as black-Jewish tensions increasingly surfaced, the A.D.L.’s old allies became some of its chief targets. Foxman skirmished for years with Jesse Jackson until the early 1990s. When Khalid Abdul Muhammad, an aide to Louis Farrakhan, delivered a venomously anti-Semitic speech late in 1993, Foxman demonstrated that he knew how to hold a punch as well as throw one. In the midst of an urgent meeting called to formulate a response, Foxman declared: “You know what we’re going to do? We’re going to take out a full-page ad in The Times and just reprint the speech.” Excerpts of the text ran under the headline “Minister Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam Claim They Are Moving Toward Moderation and Increased Tolerance. You Decide.” Peter Wilner, then an associate director of the A.D.L., recalls, “You never felt prouder working for the organization.”

It’s tempting to compare Abe Foxman with Al Sharpton, another portly, bellicose, melodramatizing defender of ethnic ramparts. But you never feel that Foxman is admiring his own performance, as you do with Sharpton. Foxman’s spleen, in all its infinite variety, is the real deal. “More than anything else,” says J. J. Goldberg, the editor of The Forward, a leading American Jewish weekly, and a frequent foil of Foxman’s, “I think his gut is where Jewish emotions are. He opens his mouth and out comes the Jew on the street. He’s not complicated.” Over the years, Goldberg has attacked Foxman for offering his kosher seal of approval to such as Silvio Berlusconi, the Christianity-promoting, right-wing former prime minister of Italy, and more recently to John Bolton, the United Nations-hating former ambassador to the U.N. Goldberg says he thinks that Foxman is often wrong — but never cynical.

I first went to see Foxman a few days after the midterm Congressional elections. The flat-screen TV mounted on a wall to one side of his desk was tuned to CNN. Newspapers were stacked up at the entrance to his office — The Times, The Jewish Week, The Forward, the tabloids. Foxman is 66, and his dark hair has thinned and his pale face has grown broad and fleshy. These days he wears his wedding ring on his pinky. He has the look of a kingpin — a Cadillac-driving ward-heeler out of Saul Bellow. He had just returned from a whirlwind trip to Europe conducted more or less at the level of foreign minister. Jacques Chirac, the president of France, pinned on him the rosette of the Legion of Honor, but he is too proud of who he is and where he came from to wear it in his lapel.

I found that I could twist Foxman’s dial of outrage without even trying. He said, apropos of the dispute over Tony Judt, that while he would never try to prevent speech, he did believe that it was wrong to give really evil figures, like Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president of Iran and at present the world’s most famously anti-Semitic head of state, the legitimacy of a meeting, as U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and the Council on Foreign Relations recently had. I asked if Annan also shouldn’t have met with Saddam Hussein. “There is a difference between Ahmadinejad and even a Saddam Hussein,” Foxman rejoined. “Here is a man who says time and again, ‘I will wipe this nation’ ” — Israel — “ ‘off the face of the earth,’ and says afterward that the Holocaust never happened. This is not ‘Israel as victim’; this is the destruction of Jewish identity.”

Foxman made a beseeching gesture, his fingertips cupped before his mouth. “Plus, it has happened before,” he went on. “It’s not an abstraction. By a man, by a government, who aids, abets, fuels suicide bombers, makes them martyrs, celebrates them, who asks for volunteers from his country, and I don’t know what they have, 40,000 now, who have volunteered in future to go kill Jews!” Foxman was now shouting at me across the table. “And you arm yourself to take out as many Jews as possible!” Foxman’s hands were wheeling in circles before him; this possible Holocaust, so remote to many of us, seemed to rise up before him with a terrible clarity. “Oh, my God!” he cried, as if reeling in horror before the vision he had himself conjured.

Foxman really does dwell imaginatively in the Holocaust. He spends a month or so each winter in Palm Beach, moving in the company of elderly folk, many of them Holocaust survivors, who revere him. He seems to understand the survivor mentality far better than he does the lighthearted and lightheaded culture of disposable, custom-made ethnic identity. All that, so far as Foxman is concerned, is a pleasing delusion, like the soigné Berlin of 1925. In his most recent book — “Never Again?” — he makes the stupefyingly counterintuitive claim that high rates of Jewish assimilation are a reaction to discriminatory treatment, rather than a proof of the opposite. “One out of three people in these United States believes that the Jews are more loyal to Israel than to the U.S.,” he growled. “That’s a classic anti-Semitic canard.” And yet a Pew Global Attitudes Poll in 2004 found that anti-Semitism had declined in much of the West and was lowest in the United States. A Pew poll last year found American support for Israel as strong now as at any time in the last 13 years.

Foxman’s genius lies not so much in the realm of oratory as in the realm of dramaturgy; he stages public rituals of accusation and often of reconciliation and redemption. In mid-November he held an event, a cross between a news conference and a roof-raising abolitionist meeting, to honor Ruth Halimi, a Parisian Jew whose son, Ilan, had been kidnapped, tortured and murdered by a gang in February. He had invited prominent members of the French Jewish community, A.D.L. lay leaders, prospective donors and the press. Foxman spoke first, and he addressed Halimi, a small, modest woman, with great gentleness and compassion. Within minutes, though, Foxman had begun to advance up his scale of spleen. He was shouting about Auschwitz and six million and then ticking off the litany of Jews who had been killed in recent years only because they were Jews: congregants in Buenos Aires, the journalist Daniel Pearl, a volunteer at a Jewish charity in Seattle — “and now Ilan,” whose kidnappers assumed that all Jews are rich. “I still hear the good people” — Foxman uses the word good in this context to mean “saps” — “coming to us in the A.D.L., saying: ‘What are you worried about stereotypes? They’re words! Big deal.’ We sat with the minister of education in Spain not long ago, and she said to us, ‘When we say Jews are rich, when we say Jews are successful, it’s a compliment.’ ” Foxman was now full-out screaming. “And I looked at her and I said: ‘Your Excellency, no thanks. Those are words that helped pave the way to Auschwitz.’ ”

Foxman was followed by Ruth Halimi, and she in turn by François Delattre, the French consul general. Delattre was a man of very different temperament than his host, and he spoke quietly and feelingly of anti-Semitism as “an existential threat to all of us.” Of France, he said, “The Jewish tradition and culture is deeply part of our DNA.” At the same time, because of the collaboration of the wartime French government at Vichy, “we have forever a special responsibility in the fight against anti-Semitism.” At times, Delattre had to struggle to compose himself. It was extraordinarily moving to hear such words, and see such depth of feeling, from a French-government official; perhaps it also proved that Foxman’s hectoring really has raised consciousness about anti-Semitism in places where anti-Jewish feeling represents a real threat. “You have,” one of Foxman’s aides said to me afterward, “experienced an A.D.L. moment.”

The A.D.L. moment wasn’t quite over. Foxman called the press — two reporters for Jewish media outlets and me — to a small conference room to meet Halimi. She spoke of her disappointment and anger at the conduct of the French police. Foxman, sitting next to her, fiddled with his coffee mug in increasing agitation. So many people in the neighborhood knew what was going on, he interjected. There should be an investigation, he said, but of course it would look bad if the A.D.L., in New York, called for it: “We need the support of the community.” He asked us to keep this part off the record. We filed out, but a moment later an aide came to fetch us back. Foxman was still sitting at the conference table with Halimi. “There’s a need for an investigation,” he declared. A reporter asked when and where the announcement would be made. He didn’t get it. “I’m announcing it right now,” Foxman said.

One of the really remarkable features of post-9/11 political life was that in the first months and years after the attacks, scarcely anyone called for America to abandon Israel, though it is hardly difficult to argue that our support for the Jewish state has cost us dearly in the Islamic world. (Foxman himself insists that Muslim anger at American support for Israel has nothing to do with Islamic terrorism.) Rabble-rousers haven’t gained any traction by scapegoating Israel. Nor have legislators of either the left or the right pushed for a substantial rethinking of our policy.

The publication last March (in The London Review of Books) of “The Israel Lobby,” an article written by the political scientists John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt, marked the end, or at least the beginning of the end, of the post-9/11 taboo. Throwing aside all the circumlocutions with which the subject is usually addressed, as well as most of the ethical and historical premises, Mearsheimer and Walt insisted that Israel had neither a strategic nor a moral claim on American sympathies. Israel was not an asset but a “liability” in the war on terror; indeed, “the U.S. has a terrorism problem in good part because it is so closely allied with Israel.” And while “there is a strong moral case for supporting Israel’s existence,” the country’s “past and present conduct” brutal mistreatment of Palestinians, refusing serious peace offers, even spying on the United States “offers no moral basis for privileging it over the Palestinians.”

How, then, to explain so one-sided a policy? “The unmatched power,” they argue, “of the Israel lobby.” Mearsheimer and Walt, distinguished figures who teach at the University of Chicago and at Harvard, respectively, note that the Israel lobby is not a cabal but simply a very effective pressure group whose goal is to influence legislators and “to prevent critical comments from getting a fair hearing in the political arena.” Like any other lobby, this one (the authors are speaking specifically here of Aipac) succeeds at the legislative level “due to its ability to reward legislators and Congressional candidates who support its agenda and to punish those who challenge it.” The lobby dominates media and has established a “commanding presence” in policy institutes, thus ensuring that, with few exceptions — mostly on campus — only one side of the debate can be heard. And if all else fails, the two maintain, the lobby is always prepared to engage in intellectual blackmail: “Anyone who criticizes Israel’s actions or argues that pro-Israel groups have significant influence over U.S. Middle Eastern policy ... stands a good chance of being labeled an anti-Semite.” That would be where Abe Foxman comes in.

At times, Mearsheimer and Walt come very close to describing the Israel lobby as something like a fifth column. “The bottom line,” they write, “is that Aipac, a de facto agent for a foreign government, has a stranglehold on Congress.” And it has a stranglehold, as well, Mearsheimer and Walt argue, on the Bush administration. “Pressure from Israel and the lobby,” they write, was “critical” in the decision to go to war in Iraq. That pressure came not only from top officials of the Israeli government and representatives of Jewish groups but also from a subset of neoconservatives, most but not all of them Jewish, both inside and outside the administration. More recently, they suggest, Israel, the Israel lobby and the neoconservatives have shaped the administration’s belligerent policy toward Syria and Iran. The ultimate objective is to give Israel “a free hand with the Palestinians,” while the U.S. “will do most of the fighting, dying, ... rebuilding and paying.”

“The Israel Lobby” slammed into the opinion-making world with a Category 5 force. The article loosed a flood of fevered editorials, labored rebuttals and bare-knuckle debates. Not only the A.D.L. and other watchdog groups, like the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America, but even academic colleagues of Mearsheimer and Walt pointed out serious errors in the historical portions of the essay. Benny Morris, a revisionist Israeli historian whose work Mearsheimer and Walt have drawn on, described the article as “a travesty of the history which I have studied and written on for the past two decades.” The authors were also attacked for cherry-picking quotations. J. J. Goldberg, the Forward editor and a critic of Israeli policy, wrote that by conflating moderate supporters of Israel and genuine die-hards, the authors had managed “to create the appearance of a vast, terrifying octopus.” The most trenchant criticism was also the most simple: Even if the authors didn’t believe that Israel has legitimate moral claims, the American people do, and it was this widespread support, more than any unholy machinations, that explained the continuing support of Israel even in the face of the terrorist threat.

Scholars and journalists familiar with the workings of the Israel lobby came to Mearsheimer and Walt’s defense, if somewhat warily, in the pages of The Nation and The New York Review of Books. But support, or at least confirmation, also came from inside the world of Jewish advocacy. According to M. J. Rosenberg, the Washington director for the Israel Policy Forum and a veteran of Capitol Hill, “The way it works is that most members of Congress feel that saying things on the Middle East that are not strictly the Aipac line will get them in more trouble than it’s worth.” Rosenberg notes that legislation on the Middle East generally consists of symbolic statements, like the recent Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act, which are “written by Aipac.” No one, Rosenberg says, “advocates anti-Israel policies,” and even the modest American Task Force on Palestine is “closer to what the American Jewish community supports” — a two-state solution, the rollback of settlements in the occupied territories — “than any of these right-wing Jewish groups are.” Rosenberg describes the attitude of most legislators as a shortsighted “path of least resistance,” which, he says he fears, will do real harm to Israel in the long run.

The storm over the Israel lobby picked up new life in September, when Mearsheimer and two supporters squared off against three former policy-makers and authors — two from the Clinton administration and one from Israel — in a debate at the Cooper Union in New York. One member of the Mearsheimer tag team was Tony Judt, who stoutly defended the position that the Israel lobby “acts constantly and very effectively to silence criticism of its cause.” The debate was raucous, and widely publicized, and succeeded in deepening, or at least confirming, the hostility surrounding the issue.

Then came a new tempest, if in a much smaller teapot: the Polish Consulate affair. After Judt’s talk there was canceled at the last minute, he says he heard from the event’s organizer that “serial phone calls” from Abe Foxman had frightened the consulate into canceling the event. Here was the proof, in case more proof were needed, that the Israel lobby was squelching debate — precisely the point Judt had planned to make. He now threw a match into New York’s ever-combustible intellectual world by circulating an e-mail message detailing his victimization to a long list of pundits and scholars. A number of the recipients of Judt’s e-mail were less outraged by his treatment than by his views. Nevertheless, the issue of the suppression of debate had now been joined, and more than 100 people signed an open letter, which appeared in the Nov. 16 issue of The New York Review of Books, accusing Foxman and the A.D.L. of fostering “a climate of intimidation” and lamenting that the organization had apparently lost sight of its hundred-year commitment to civil rights and public education.

The problem was that Foxman had not made those serial phone calls. According to a story that he tells and others confirm, a subordinate had called on his behalf to see if the consulate was sponsoring the event. Satisfied that it was not, the group dropped the issue. Of course, even those calls might have prompted some rethinking by a diplomat from a country that has worked hard to restore its ties to Israel. A separate call from David Harris, the head of the American Jewish Committee — who later explained that he had called as “a friend of Poland,” because “that evening was going to be entirely contrary to the entire spirit of Polish foreign policy” — probably proved more influential. But when a consulate official telephoned the organizer, Patricia Huntington, to call off the event, she says he told her that the consul general couldn’t come to the phone as he was speaking to Foxman. This was what Huntington later told Judt.

Here was one of those stories that seemed so self-evidently true that its falsity couldn’t be accepted. Abe Foxman was, after all, the hanging judge of anti-Semitism. Isn’t it just the kind of thing he would do? And the A.D.L. so neatly symbolized the divide between mainstream Jewish groups and the intellectuals who had once been so closely associated with them. On this subject, Tony Judt went to town in a way that he may live to regret. In one widely circulated e-mail message, he described Foxman and David Harris as “illiberal lying bigots — Fascists, as we used to say.” He dismissed Foxman himself with an almost Leninist turn of phrase: “Pollution like him swirls around in the gutters of every democracy.” Apparently it’s not only the hanging judge who suffers from a sense of grandiosity. Judt now says, “I don’t feel in the least personally suppressed,” but rather he worries about the effect of this attempt at suppression on other, less doughty souls.

That, Abe Foxman would say, is “abject nonsense.” The A.D.L., he says, doesn’t operate that way; it seeks balance, not suppression. Foxman told me that he believes he’s challenging his adversaries to a debate, not shouting them down. But, I asked, isn’t slinging the dread charge of anti-Semitism at people like Jimmy Carter and Tony Judt and Mearsheimer and Walt really a way of choking off debate? No, it isn’t, Foxman said. This was at our lunch; Foxman got so exercised that he began to choke on his gratin. I asked if it was really right to call Carter, the president who negotiated the Camp David accords, an anti-Semite.

“But you said he was bigoted. Isn’t that the same thing?”

“No. ‘Bigoted’ is you have preconceived notions about things.”

The argument that the Israel lobby constricted debate was itself bigoted, he said.

“But several Jewish officials I’ve talked to say just that.”

Foxman didn’t want to go there. He said that he had never heard any serious person make that claim.

Perhaps the question comes down to this: Are we courting more danger by suppressing speech or by speech itself? Several of the signatories of the open letter with whom I spoke cited John Stuart Mill’s dictum that in a democratic society the free market of ideas ultimately sifts through falsehood to produce truth. Abe Foxman says this is naïve. The A.D.L. used to argue with Norman Lear, the producer of “All in the Family,” that listeners weren’t laughing at Archie Bunker but with him. Foxman says the same thing now about Borat. Experience — primal experience — has taught him that the truth does not win on its own merits; the market for falsehood is just too powerful. “Where is it being debated?” he asked. “In the universities, on the airwaves. Advanced by whom? Harvard, the University of Chicago. With Pat Buchanan, it wasn’t legitimate. Who cares about David Duke? It is now a legitimate debate.” And Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and the murderers of Danny Pearl and Ilan Halimi, and millions of impressionable Muslims are listening and taking notes. That’s the audience that Abe Foxman worries about.

What is the difference between this claim and the accusation, a favorite of Vice President Dick Cheney and former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, that critics of the war in Iraq, or of the war on terror, or of homeland-security preparations, are emboldening the enemy? And isn’t that claim, too, designed to suppress debate, or at the very least to make the critic think long and hard before opening his mouth? Is that a price worth paying? Put otherwise: Should we make the existential choice to err on the side of fear, or of hope — a prudent, watchful hope, that is?

Foxman invited me to hear him speak in December at Temple Sholom in Greenwich, Conn. The temple has 700 members, mostly younger families, but the crowd at the event, and especially at the $250-a-person reception beforehand, was an Abe Foxman crowd — older, richer, more conservative. Foxman gamely grinned and hugged and mugged for the camera; the bodyguard straightened his collar. One by one, the congregants approached to consult him on matters Jewish and Middle Eastern; Foxman fielded the questions with due solemnity. A woman who introduced herself as the daughter of Holocaust survivors said that Jimmy Carter was just as bad as Ahmadinejad — another Israel-denier. Foxman demurred on the comparison but said he planned to write to Tim Russert, the NBC interviewer, asking why he had treated Carter with “kid gloves.” A short, bearded man who said that he was a member of Aipac asked, “What do you think of John Bolton?” The American ambassador to the United Nations had just tendered his resignation. Both agreed that it was a shame. The A.D.L. had taken out a full-page ad applauding Bolton as a staunch defender of Israel. More hugs, more pictures.

Foxman is an anachronism. The demographic of which he is a member — Holocaust survivor — is rapidly disappearing. Younger people don’t know quite what to make of him. In a recent column in The Jewish Journal, David A. Lehrer, formerly the head of the A.D.L.’s Los Angeles office, observed that Jews are now the most widely admired religious group in America, as well as the most successful, and lamented that Jewish leaders — Foxman specifically — continue to harp on Jewish “insecurity” and the threat of anti-Semitism. Lehrer says that when he raised his view that the A.D.L. had to learn to speak to this new, confident but less affiliated generation of Jews, Foxman dismissed it out of hand. The generational question does not interest him. “It’s not my job to judge whether they should feel beleaguered or not,” Foxman snapped when I raised the subject. “I do feel. And I’ve got news for you: Every one of them, in their maturing process, will experience this.”
346 2007-01-14 I am grateful for Damon Linker’s generous and generally accurate review of my “What Paul Meant” (Dec. 31).But he has no grounds for saying that I “reject ... the early church councils, the church fathers and even, in many instances, the Gospels themselves.” I invoked the early creeds and councils as a basis for my faith in “Why I Am a Catholic,” have written often of the church father Augustine, and am now composing a book on the authenticity of the four Gospels, a point that was implicit in my “What Jesus Meant” but whose reasons I am now explicitly expounding.
347 2007-01-14 Ms. Close, who has Type 1 diabetes, was moved to donate by an article about the plight of diabetics. “I was really touched by that one. I just thought, there but for the sake of God go I,” she said.

The Closes run a consulting company for diabetics, health care providers and others affected by the disease. They set up a matching gift program for the Neediest Cases, inviting their six full-time employees to donate, and have raised $600, she said.

“It’s such a good reminder: take care of the people around you and do what you can to take care of other people,” she said.

“I often think that Americans are such believers in merit and personal responsibility that they forget that luck plays a big part in life. Every year, the Times Neediest Cases stories are a reminder of just how much bad luck there is in the world, and how much relatively small amounts of help can do for people who are fighting it.” - Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor, Mich.

“I’m not from New York, but I have a sort of an emotional connection to New York,” said Ruth Scodel, 54, who teaches Greek and Latin at the University of Michigan. “I think of New York as quintessentially America.”

Professor Scodel said she gave money to a variety of nonprofit groups, including her synagogue, local and regional cultural institutions, and humanist and environmental causes. This year, she gave $100 to the Neediest Cases as part of her year-end donations. Although she lives far from the people she reads about in the Neediest Cases, she said she viewed them as part of her community.

Professor Scodel teaches Greek tragedy, and in the daily Neediest Cases articles she hears echoes of Greek philosophies.

“That’s sort of what these stories bring out, vicissitude,” she said. “Things go well, and sometimes they don’t; stuff just happens in the world.”

“This is like, hey, not only do we work a lot, but even at the most junior levels we’re trying to give something back. We’re trying to help out. It’s kind of become a source of pride for Citigroup, and I know Goldman Sachs is probably the same way, that we’ve been spearheading it for 15 years now. Year after year The New York Times comes to us, or we go to them, because there’s been such a good working relationship. Why not try our best to help each year?” - Jason Spindel, Manhattan

“It’s really not all me,” Jason Spindel, 23, wanted to make clear. He is a second-year analyst at Citigroup and volunteered to coordinate the company’s annual fund-raising drive for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Raising money for the Neediest Cases is a Wall Street tradition now in its 16th year, with about 14 companies participating over the years. Citigroup contributed $81,801 last year, and has already committed $40,000 to this year’s campaign. As yearly bonuses are distributed to company employees in the coming weeks, Mr. Spindel hopes to match last year’s contribution. Last year’s largest Wall Street donation was $152,830, from Goldman Sachs.

The campaign is a chance for junior Wall Street workers, analysts who are just starting out, to give something back. Mr. Spindel appreciates the tradition.

“The analysts amongst themselves, year after year, decide they want to do it, and then do our best,” he said.

The drive spurs a bit of good-natured rivalry among firms. “Competition with Goldman Sachs is fun and friendly,” Mr. Spindel said. “If Goldman beats us by a million dollars or we beat them by a million dollars, hey, all the money’s going to the same place.”

The analyst lifestyle, Mr. Spindel said, is a hectic one. “We work all day, every day, nights and weekends,” he said. “It’s not uncommon to sleep in your cube, if you’re able to sleep, or to be here at midnight on a Saturday night.”

Part of the success of the Neediest Cases campaign is its convenience, Mr. Spindel said: collection and reminders happen right in the office. “They don’t even have to get up,” he said.

The Wall Street workers also appreciate knowing that all of the money raised goes directly to those in need, Mr. Spindel said, “because most of the people I’m asking for money are finance people by nature.” He said he assured them that the Neediest Cases was a savvy charitable investment because “all of your dollars are going to help somebody.”

That they are helping New Yorkers gives the donors a sense of immediacy about the campaign. “We spend every waking minute on Manhattan,” Mr. Spindel said. “You can see a tangible impact if you took the time to scout it out.”

“I read a story in the Neediest Cases, I think it was in January of 2003, about a little boy who had been born without arms and he needed a wheelchair. So I said to my husband, ‘He needs a wheelchair. How much could a wheelchair be?’ Of course, it turned out he needed a big wheelchair, and a very complicated one, because he had to work it with his shoulders. It took a long time. It went on and on, and finally I said, ‘I want to meet him.’ ”

For Kathy and Alan Greenberg, donating to the Neediest Cases started simply. They would buy a wheelchair for a boy who needed one.

But they did not stop there.

“It started off with a little bitty thing and turned into a mountain,” said Mr. Greenberg, 79, who is chairman of the executive committee of the Bear Stearns Companies. Ms. Greenberg, 60, is a lawyer who founded the New York Legal Assistance Group, which provides legal services to poor New Yorkers.

Both are dedicated philanthropists, giving to hospitals and universities, the Boy Scouts and UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, among other charities. And both are dedicated to Roy Lantigua, the boy profiled in the Neediest Cases article in January 2003.

“When she first found out about the wheelchair, she went out to the house and decided that the house wasn’t easily accessed by a wheelchair,” Mr. Greenberg said. While at Roy’s house in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Ms. Greenberg came up with a plan. “She had the construction people go out and fix the ramp,” Mr. Greenberg said.

Ms. Greenberg also became Roy’s court-appointed guardian, a role that she shares with another woman. Roy lives with his mother, and the court guardians oversee his financial and legal interests.

And the Greenbergs’ involvement even extended to Roy’s school, the Henry Viscardi School, which serves severely physically disabled students.

“I took my husband, because he does magic, and I took him to do a magic show for the kids at the Henry Viscardi School,” Ms. Greenberg said.

Ms. Greenberg also redecorated an accessible student residence at the school, where Roy, 15, is in the 10th grade. And the Greenbergs provide transportation for a regular Friday night recreation program for the students.

Amanda Caccavo, who works at the school, said, “I’ve been a social worker a really long time, and I’ve seen a lot of things come and go, but the Greenbergs are the real deal.”

In the three years since he met the Greenbergs, Roy’s life has changed. They sent him on a vacation to Disney World. They paid to have his teeth straightened. And with Mr. Greenberg’s help, Roy recently had a practice interview at Bear Stearns, and is considering transferring to a business high school in Manhattan.

“I’ve been doing better in school, behaving better and stuff,” Roy said. “It’s weird; it’s hard to explain.

“She’s been really nice to me,” he continued, referring to Ms. Greenberg. “I thought I might try and do something for her, do my best.”

Beyond braces and a wheelchair, Ms. Greenberg has given Roy a bigger sense of his possibilities.

“That’s the progressive kind of thinking that has been available to Roy, just having Kathy around,” Ms. Caccavo said. “Kathy doesn’t come from the framework of disability. She comes from the world’s framework.”

When they give, the Greenbergs follow their instincts. “Something just hits us, and we do it; that’s all,” Mr. Greenberg said.

His wife agreed, saying, “All you have to do is actually connect with people who are struggling, really struggling, and it’s sort of a no-brainer.”

For the Greenbergs, reading the Neediest Cases articles is one way to make that connection. “There are very few stories that actually showcase what happens in a home of a poverty-stricken family,” Ms. Greenberg said. “If you read a case every day, you could get involved on a daily basis.”

In November, the Greenbergs read a Neediest Cases article about a family whose youngest child has a heart defect. In the article, as the girl’s parents discussed the family’s needs, a Christmas wish was coaxed out of her older brother. “The kids just wanted a computer for Christmas,” Ms. Greenberg said.

And so, Mr. Greenberg said, “we got them a computer.”

More and more people are donating online to The New York Times Neediest Cases campaign. As of Dec. 31, 2006, with more than a month left in the campaign, the number of online donors, 2,240, had already exceeded last season’s total. Data comes from NYCharities.org , which processes the online donations. Sixty-seven percent of online donors are New Yorkers, while the remaining 33 percent represent 36 states. They have many reasons for giving, but they are all moved to do so. Some of their letters are below.

“I am just about to go to bed in my warm apartment overlooking the river here in Exeter, New Hampshire. My sister has just left, after we made and shared a delicious Moroccan meal. My dog is toasty on her suede bed; she had frozen yogurt for “dessert” tonight. I consider my life and again I am struck by the serendipity of being so remarkably fortunate. Blessed, really. Why am I donating? Because I believe it is my responsibility to give something back, to help others and to work towards raising the bar for ALL people, not just the fortunate. If I can help someone this holiday season — with a meal or a new winter coat or a rent payment — then I have taken one small step in the right direction.”

“Ira Seidman and Ben Zweig , sixth-grade students at the School at Columbia University, sold homemade hot chocolate and cookies on the corner of 110th Street and Broadway to raise this $200.00 to donate to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. They met up with alot of neighborhood and school people, had fun, and hope this money will help make life a little better for some fellow New Yorkers.” - Daniel Seidman, New York

“Giving to the NY Neediest Fund has been a family tradition since I was a little girl. I hope that this small gift can help some little girl somewhere and give her some hope and a way to reach her dreams.”

“I have donated to the NY Times Neediest Cases every year since I was a small child. This has not been the best year for me financially, but it has been a year of great personal growth and happiness. I hope that this gift, and the new year ahead of us, may bring comfort and joy to families trying to get back on their feet.”

“I give every year in memory of my mother, Faye Steiner, who had the proverbial heart of gold, and always gave to those who needed help.”

“I decided to give because it is the Christian thing to do.. I also decided to donate because if I am given more, it is my responsibility to give back to those who are less fortunate than myself. I know what it is like to not have money for groceries and be afraid of having your lights turned off. I make this in memory of my grandmothers, Claudia, who made pennies into dimes to keep my mom and uncle out of foster care; and Eula; who made pennies into nickels to keep my father and his three siblings out of the hands of The Division of Youth and Family Services, in New Jersey.”

“Having been there years ago, I know what a few dollars can mean.”

“Last year one of your neediest cases was a widowed woman struggling with MS. That describes me — except that my three children and I are lucky enough not to be financially strained. I think of her often, and hope my gift will ease her life and those of the many amazing families and children you profile.”

“My wife and I have a three month old baby (our first) and, having realized how much work it is, we are constantly amazed at the stories of single mothers, barely scraping by, who manage to raise their children in the most difficult of circumstances. While previously such stories touched us, now they bring us nearly to tears, as we have a better understanding of the difficulties of raising a child. Making this donation is the least we could do to help these mothers.”

MOVED BY A VOICE IN THE PAPER

It seems that you have an abundance of Love in your family. I cross my fingers that you will find a good job such that there will be money too. Here is my contribution for the rough patch until you find that job.

With admiration for your strength, ”

Ms. Bade was responding to an article by Kari Haskell about Peggy Lopez that was published Dec. 17 in The New York Times.

“Reading about the individuals who have benefited from the fund gives me the feeling that I understand the connection between a donation and the recipient in a very tangible way. The decision to make donations at this time of year was already made; the decision to donate to the Neediest Cases Fund was influenced by understanding how this money is distributed.”

“Last Christmas, while sitting amid the carnage of dirty plates and wrapping paper, my father felt gluttonous, spoiled, selfish. Our lifestyle felt damnably selfish. So, he declared that next Christmas he would rather we gave money to the Times Neediest Cases in his name than give him a gift. And I am.”

“In honor of my two children, I would like to donate a Chanukah gift to support the neediest.”

“This is a season to buy less, love more. No better way to impress upon my daughters the importance of giving back — not just during the holidays, but always. This donation is a gift to them.”

“The charity workers are angels, in my book, and donating money is easy in comparison to the work they do. I am grateful for all I have and for my wonderful family and friends, and I would like to do something for those who are not as fortunate.”

Contribution was made by Doug and Lore Peyton.

“Every day we wake up and think about how lucky we are to have our health, 2 wonderful sons, good paying jobs and a nice home. I cannot imagine having the strength to survive what these families have survived. They have real courage. - Judith Feldman, Brooklyn

“New York has been good to my family and me, we want to share that goodness with the people of New York.”

“I have been very lucky in that I have never wanted for food or shelter. I know how easy it would be, however, for that to change and how fragile that luck is.” - Nancy Lipin, Brooklyn

“I am donating in thankfulness for the wonderful year that 2006 was in my life. I wanted to wish all those in need and despair, a prayer of hope and prosperity and health for the years to come; may their circumstance and luck change for the better in 2007.”
348 2007-01-14 Look for a number of American premieres at this year’s Spoleto Festival U.S.A. in Charleston, S.C. (May 24 to June 10). “I think we stretched ourselves further than ever with this year’s program,” said Nigel Redden, the festival’s general director, mentioning that the lineup includes more dance (Swan Lake, Rubberbandance) and jazz events (the pianist Ahmad Jamal) than in previous years.

Two operas never before seen by American audiences — “Faustus, The Last Night,” by the contemporary French composer Pascal Dusapin, and “L’Isle de Merlin, ou le Monde Renversé,” a late-Baroque fantasy by Gluck, staged by the renowned opera director, Christopher Alden, will also be shown.

“Book of Longing,” a new work by Philip Glass, based on Leonard Cohen’s first poetry collection in 20 years, will feature Mr. Glass, right, on keyboard for its premiere.

“There is also a social commentary theme running through the festival,” Mr. Redden said, citing “Faustus,” “The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny,” by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht, and “The Constant Wife” by Somerset Maugham.

Tickets, which cost $10 to $130, can be bought at www.spoletousa.org or by calling the box office at (843) 579-3100. A recent Web search found round-trip fares for nonstop flights between La Guardia Airport in New York and Charleston starting at about $300 on carriers including Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and US Airways.
349 2007-01-14 Finding a moderately priced hotel room in Miami during the winter is never easy, but securing one over Super Bowl weekend (Feb. 2 to 5) is a totally different ballgame, regardless of availability.

This weekend, for instance, the rate for a double room at the Miami Airport Holiday Inn is $190. For the night before the Super Bowl , that room goes for $430. At the already pricey Delano, a city view deluxe room that would have cost $775 for last night is more than twice that amount, $1,625, on Feb. 4 (and it’s booked solid). Even the ultraexpensive Setai is requiring guests to stay a minimum of seven nights during Super Bowl week, at $950 a night for a double room.

Robert Tuchman, president of TSE Sports & Entertainment (www.tseworld.com), said his company was selling four-night Super Bowl packages with upper-level game tickets, but without air fare. For example, $5,850 a person gets a double room at the Westin in Fort Lauderdale, while $7,350 a person puts you in a penthouse suite at the Albion South Beach.

“When you couple the Super Bowl with a great location like Miami, hotels can charge five times their normal price,” Mr. Tuchman said, adding that last year’s location, Detroit (featuring the Seattle Seahawks and the Pittsburgh Steelers, above), was a bit of a bust. “We only sent around 300 people,” he said. “This year, we already have a thousand.”

His packages include an autographed football, a celebrity golf tournament and a Sunday morning chat with a former N.F.L. player or coach.
350 2007-01-14 Here is a guide to help you navigate the bureaucracy and get that passport in time.

Your Trip Is in Eight Weeks

If all goes well, you’ll have time to get your passport in the usual way — processing an application typically takes six to eight weeks. But as the demand for passports grows, wait times could increase. In December, one million passport applications were processed, up 57 percent from the number in December 2005. To help handle the work, the government has hired new employees and added some new locations where people can file applications, bringing the total to roughly 9,000. But no one really knows if this will be enough. To apply for the first time, go in person to one of the many passport acceptance facilities around the country, including many post offices or libraries (you can find one by ZIP code at www.iafdb.travel.state.gov), with two photographs of yourself; proof of United States citizenship, like a certified birth certificate; and a valid form of photo identification, like a driver’s license. The fee is $97.

If you mostly travel between the United States and Canada, there is a $50 alternative: the Nexus card, issued to pre-screened travelers under a joint program operated by the United States and Canada.

You can always pay an extra $60 for expedited service, which typically cuts down waiting time to around two weeks. Be sure to clearly mark “expedited” on the envelope if you’re mailing in your application, an option for adults who are simply renewing passports. (Renewals cost $67.) And consider paying for overnight delivery each way.

For faster service, make an appointment to go in person, with proof of travel plans in hand, to one of 14 passport agencies in major cities, including New York, Houston and Los Angeles, by calling (877) 487-2778. Your passport could be issued that same day.

Your best bet is to use a private rush service. For anywhere from $130 to $200 on top of passport fees, these companies often can obtain passports in as little as 24 hours. You’ll still need appropriate documentation, and you’ll have to appear at a post office or other passport acceptance location, but the service will speed up the processing time.

Rush companies have their limits, too. In recent years, some of the regional passport agencies have reduced the number of daily submissions rush companies are allowed, and some companies have had to turn applicants away. But if the first one you call can’t get you an appointment, there are many others to choose from. For a list go to www.napvs.org. American Express Vacations is working with It’s Easy Passport and Visa Services in New York to get its customers passports on the day of application, if necessary. Cost: $179 to $200 on top of regular fees.

Sure, you have plenty of time, but you might as well apply now. As early as Jan. 1 of next year, American citizens traveling between the United States and the rest of the Western Hemisphere by land or sea could be required to present valid passports. While recent legislative changes permit a later deadline, the State and Homeland Security Departments are working to meet all requirements as soon as possible.

The change is expected to drive an even greater influx of passport applications. By applying now, you’ll avoid any potential backlogs.

For travelers who don’t want to pay $97 for a first-time passport, the State Department also plans to introduce a passport card, possibly by the end of this year, good for travel by land or sea only to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Projected costs are $10 for children and $20 for adults with a $25 processing fee for each.

What About the Kids?

If it’s your children who need the passports, there are extra rules. To apply for a passport for a child under 14, both parents must appear together with the child to sign the application. If that’s not possible, written and notarized permission from an absent parent or another documented explanation — like proof of sole custody of a child, an adoption decree or the death certificate of a deceased parent — must be supplied. Exact procedures are set out at www.travel.state.gov/passport. Older teenagers with their own government-issued IDs do not need a parent to accompany them to apply, but parental consent may be requested. The fee is $82 for children under 16.
351 2007-01-14 For each person whose life has been eased by money provided by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, there is a donor who has been moved to make a difference. For some, donating to the Neediest Cases is part of a tradition of giving. More and mo...
352 2007-01-14 To the Editor:     I am grateful for Damon Linker's generous and generally accurate review of my ''What Paul Meant'' (Dec. 31).But he has no grounds for saying that I ''reject ... the early church councils, the church fathers and even, in many ins...
353 2007-01-14 To the Editor:     Re ''New Jersey's Millstone'' (editorial, Jan. 7):     You are correct in suggesting that middle-income New Jersey homeowners use an inordinate amount of their income to pay their property taxes....
354 2007-01-14 To the Editor:     Re ''Testing the Testers'' (editorial, Jan. 8):     Only in the United States could we decide to entrust to private enterprise something as fundamental to the Republic as the vote. I can think of no better symbol of misplaced fa...
355 2007-01-14 McCABE--Donald B. On January 9, 2007 beloved brother of Debra, Jim, Greg. Family will receive friends on Monday 2-5 and 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Funeral mass Tuesday 10am at St. Thomas More, 65 East 89th St. Interm...
356 2007-01-14 Thirty-nine Long Island schools failed to meet targets for bringing their students to proficiency under state and federal guidelines in the 2005-6 school year, the State Education Department said last week. Many of the schools are in advanced stag...
357 2007-01-14 The New Rochelle City Council released new proposed regulations for Ward Acres Park last week that will require dog walkers to carry photo identification cards, renewed annually, as well as permits for each dog. Walkers will also be limited to two...
358 2007-01-15 The Detroit Auto Show, which is going on right now, is full of cars purporting to solve the problem of the moment: the political, economic and environmental damage done by America's dependence on oil. GM is showing off an electric Chevy; Ford has ...
359 2007-01-15 Sir John Harington would not entirely approve of what the graphics people in the Week in Review section did to Miss Brazil on Sunday. Sir John, a 17th century British poet, had a rigid idea of what constituted beauty: Her skin, and teeth, must be ...
360 2007-01-15 A woman dies from drinking too much water as part of a radio station contest to win a Wii......
361 2007-01-15 In an e-mail statement, John H. Marburger III, President Bush’s science adviser and director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, acknowledged that there were many challenges to maintaining and improving Earth-observing systems, but said the administration was committed to keeping them a “top science priority.”

The report, “Earth Science and Applications From Space: National Imperatives for the Next Decade and Beyond,” proposed spending roughly $7.5 billion in constant 2006 dollars on new instruments and satellite missions through 2020, saying that would satisfy various scientific and societal priorities while holding annual costs around what they were, as a percentage of the economy, in 2000.

“We’re trying to present a balanced, affordable program that spans all the earth sciences,” said Richard A. Anthes, the co-chairman of the committee that wrote the report and the new president of the American Meteorological Society.

The report is the latest in a string of findings from such panels pointing to dangers from recent disinvestment in the long-term monitoring of a fast-changing planet.

“This is the most critical time in human history, with the population never before so big and with stresses growing on the Earth,” Dr. Anthes said. “We just want to get back to the United States being a leader instead of someone you can’t count on.”

Satellite-borne instruments, using radar, lasers and other technology, have revolutionized earth and climate science, allowing researchers to accurately and efficiently track parameters like sea level and tiny motions of the Earth from earthquakes, the amount of rain in a cyclone and moisture in air, and the average temperature of various layers of the atmosphere.

The committee identified significant gaps in instrumentation or plans for satellites orbiting over the poles, around the Equator, and positioned so that they remain stationary over spots on the rotating Earth.

One of the most important aspects of such monitoring is launching new satellites before old ones fail. Without this overlap, it is hard to assemble meaningful long-term records that are sufficiently precise to uncover trends, the report’s authors said.

The report went beyond discussing ailing hardware and said the White House science policy office should do more to ensure that society and science were benefiting fully from the reams of data flowing from orbiting instruments.

Senior officials at NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration welcomed the report and said it would be considered as they sought to sustain Earth observations in a time of tight budgets.
362 2007-01-15 Back home, Rabbi Weiss and the others were met with anger and scorn. Since their return, they have been ostracized by synagogues, denied service at kosher stores and vilified in Jewish discussion boards on the Web. Posters have surfaced in the Satmar Hasidic enclaves of Brooklyn, calling the members of Neturei Karta “rebels” and “outcasts” and asking Orthodox Jews to “totally cut off ties with this gang.”

On Jan. 7, about 300 people, most of them Orthodox Jews, including several Holocaust survivors, protested outside Neturei Karta’s base on Saddle River Road here, chanting and holding signs that read, “Neturei Crackpots, Leave Monsey.” A much smaller contingent of Rabbi Weiss’s supporters held a counterprotest nearby.

“In some ways, I feel odd; this is about Jew against Jew, after all,” said one of the protesters, Rabbi Herbert W. Bomzer, a professor of Talmudic law at Yeshiva University and the president of the rabbinical board of Flatbush, which represents about 200,000 Orthodox Jews who live in Brooklyn. “But to join together and shake hands with the mad leader of Iran is unacceptable.”

He added, “If you shake hands with a Holocaust denier, you’re on his team.”

Mordechai Levy, the national director of the Jewish Defense Organization, a militant group that helped organize the protest, said other demonstrations were being planned, with the goal of “running Neturei Karta out of town and out of America.”

Founded in the 1930s to counter the Zionist movement in what was then Palestine, Neturei Karta, which translates to “guardians of the city” in the ancient language Aramaic, has a few thousand members — in New York, the United Kingdom and Canada, among other places. They believe that according to the Torah, Jews were exiled from Israel because they sinned and that God has forbidden the formation of a Jewish state until the Messiah arrives.

Many Jews who back the state of Israel abhor the group, and even ultra-Orthodox Jews who share its theological views have distanced themselves from Neturei Karta because of its vocal support of Middle Eastern leaders like Mr. Ahmadinejad, who has expressed in numerous pronouncements his disdain for Jews.

“I think they’re crazy,” said Ed Devir, founder of the online newsletter MonseyNY.com and chief executive of HireIsrael.com, a nonprofit group that finds technical jobs for United States citizens in Israel. Mr. Devir said he supports the state of Israel. “For too long, we tried to ignore them, but that was a big mistake.

“Everyone knows that they’re a joke,” Mr. Devir added. “But the bottom line is, they support groups that want to kill Jews.”

Rabbi Weiss, 54, grew up in the Orthodox neighborhood of Borough Park, Brooklyn, the son of Hungarians who fled Eastern Europe before Hitler’s troops closed its borders to Jews. He married 18 years ago and has six children. The family moved to Monsey seven years ago, solidifying Neturei Karta’s presence in the town.

During the group’s first trip to Tehran, last March, Rabbi Weiss released a statement to Iran’s official IRIB radio in defense of Mr. Ahmadinejad, saying that “it is dangerous deviation to pretend that the Iranian president is anti-Jewish and anti-Semitic.” Rabbi Weiss also met with Mr. Ahmadinejad when he visited New York last year to speak to the United Nations General Assembly.

“He is extremely friendly and he understands the difference between the Zionists and the Jews who do not embrace the state of Israel,” Rabbi Weiss said in an interview last week.

“We don’t look at him as an enemy,” he said. “But is he a potential enemy? Well, every person who continues to be incited is one, but even when we’re dealing with an enemy, we’re supposed to approach them with dialogue and try to placate them. Aggression is not going to be successful.”

Rabbi Weiss and his group are no stranger to controversy. He traveled to France in October 2004 to take flowers to the ailing Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who died the next month. In the past, Neturei Karta members have attended the annual Salute to Israel parade in Manhattan, burning the Israeli flag and holding signs with messages like “Authentic Jews will never recognize the state of Israel” and “Israel is a cancer for Jews.”

About 200 people protested outside the Park House Hotel in Borough Park late Saturday, demanding the departure of one of its guests, Moshe Ayre Friedman, Neturei Karta’s leader in Austria and one of the participants at the conference in Iran. Mr. Friedman left the hotel under police escort.

“We’re constantly disparaged, belittled, but we’re the ones trying to make peace with the Arabs,” Rabbi Weiss said. “But we don’t look at the Zionists with animosity. We just wished they would give us a chance.”
363 2007-01-15 With corporations posting record profits amid nonstop accounting scandals, one would assume that the Internal Revenue Service is looking long and hard at big companies’ tax returns. Unfortunately, the opposite is true.

Since 2003, I.R.S policy has called for spending less time on any one large corporate audit, with the purported aim of auditing more big businesses. But as The Times’s David Cay Johnston reported last week, I.R.S. auditors are being pushed by the agency’s top officials to prematurely close audits of large corporations with agreements that they pay only a fraction of the additional taxes that could be collected. Dozens of auditors said they were instructed to limit their examinations to issues that the I.R.S. and the companies agreed to in advance, even if suspicious deductions or other questionable tax tactics emerged during the audit.

Recently released I.R.S statistics — which the agency is required to disclose, but which it had long withheld — underscore Mr. Johnston’s report. In 2006, the time devoted to each large-company audit was nearly 21 percent below what it was in 2002. From 2003 through 2005, an ever larger share of companies was audited; but in 2006, the share declined from a high of 44 percent in 2005, to 34 percent, about where it was in 2002.

The I.R.S. says its light-touch approach is successful because auditors are finding much more tax owed for each hour they work than they did in 2002. But auditors interviewed by Mr. Johnston dispute that claim. They say that abusive and illegal tax shelters have become so pervasive that it’s easy to find additional taxes due. So the overall figure rises, even though companies are being allowed to pay far less than they owe. Economists and tax experts who have looked at the I.R.S. statistics have also raised the possibility that an increase in corporate noncompliance is behind the increased tax-due amounts, not more effective auditing.

Congress must ensure that the agency justifies its policy or changes it.
364 2007-01-15 BARRU, Indonesia, Jan. 14 (Reuters) — Rescuers have found fragments of human hair and scalp that may have come from passengers of a missing Indonesian airliner, a rescue official said on Sunday.

The remains will be sent for DNA testing, said Muslimin, a rescue official in Makassar who like many Indonesians uses only one name.

Pieces of wreckage from the Adam Air Boeing 737-400 that vanished from radar screens on New Year’s Day with 102 people aboard have been found in the past few days floating in the sea or washed up on beaches off Sulawesi Island.

Officials have suggested the plane may have crashed into the sea off the west coast of Sulawesi, disintegrating into small pieces.

“Some human hair and scalp suspected to be that of the victims of the missing Adam Air plane were found this morning in Dutungan island in the Pare Pare area,” Mr. Muslimin said. Makassar and Pare Pare are both on Sulawesi’s west coast.

A search team found part of one of the plane’s wings on Saturday night, said Budi Haryoto, an official from the national search and rescue agency. A fisherman netted the plane’s tail stabilizer on Tuesday; pieces of clothing that may have belonged to passengers were reported to have been found on Saturday; and part of a passenger seat with a serial number on it was found on Sunday.

Indonesian Navy ships assisted by an American oceanographic ship were trying to locate the plane’s fuselage, which could still house the flight recorder that could provide clues to explain the disaster.
365 2007-01-15 Before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, administration officials argued that deposing Mr. Hussein would send a powerful signal to Iran and North Korea, the two countries that Mr. Bush identified along with Iraq in his 2002 State of the Union address as part of an “axis of evil.”

“You heard this argument in meetings all the time,” a senior official on the National Security Council, who has since left the administration, recalled recently. “Iraq would make the harder problems of Iran and North Korea easier.”

But the opposite happened. North Korea tested a nuclear device in October. And Iran has sped ahead with a uranium enrichment program.

Now, despite the urging of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group to engage with Iran, Washington is moving in a more confrontational direction. It is stationing more naval, air and antimissile batteries off Iran’s coast; has persuaded many international businesses to cut off dealings with Iran; and it has interfered with Iranians inside Iraqi territory.

“The administration does have Iran on the brain, and I think they are exaggerating the amount of Iranian activities in Iraq,” Kenneth M. Pollack, the director of research at the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution, said Sunday. “There’s a good chance that this is going to be counterproductive — that this is a way to get into a spiral with Iran that leads you into conflict. The likely response from the Iranians is that they are going to want to demonstrate to us that they are not going to be pushed around.”

Administration officials say ignoring Iran’s activities will only lead to escalation with the government of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. “There’s no question that everything that has gone wrong in Iraq has made life easier for the Iranians,” one senior White House official said recently. “The question is what you do about that.”

The answer, shaped in the National Security Council, is for the American military to make targets of Iranians whom they believe are fueling attacks, a decision that Mr. Bush made months ago that was disclosed only last week.

At least twice in the last month, in raids in Iraq that have infuriated officials there, American soldiers have detained Iranians. On Sunday, Iraq’s foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, called for the release of five Iranians taken in the most recent raid, which occurred early on Thursday in Erbil. On CNN’s “Late Edition,” he said that while the five were members of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, the group “in fact is part of the Iranian political system.”

The potential strategic split with the Iraqi government over how to handle the Iranians is only one of the questions raised by Washington’s new approach. First among them is whether the effort will stop at Iran’s borders. In Congressional testimony, Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates has said that he sees no need to enter Iranian territory.

Yet American officials have been careful not to rule out the possibility of American actions inside Iran. Pressed on the ABC News program “This Week” on Sunday about excluding the option of going after Iranians inside Iran, Mr. Hadley said that for now, Iraq was “the best place” for the United States to take on the Iranians.

“So, you don’t believe you have the authority to go into Iran?” the host, George Stephanopoulos, asked.

“I didn’t say that,” Mr. Hadley responded. “This is another issue. Any time you have questions about crossing international borders, there are legal issues.”

A second question is whether Mr. Bush will step up covert as well as overt efforts to halt Iran’s nuclear program. So far, the evidence collected by the International Atomic Energy Agency suggests that Iran’s nuclear efforts have run into technical obstacles, but concerns remain that inspectors are missing secret facilities. A third question is what Washington would do if the Iranians looked for ways to strike back.

Escalating tensions are the fear of American allies in the region, who worry about Iran, but worry more about provoking it.

On Sunday, Vice President Dick Cheney argued that America’s actions were intended to protect allies in the Persian Gulf — though it is far from clear that Iran’s Sunni Arab neighbors have signed on to the strategy. “If you go and talk with the gulf states or if you talk with the Saudis or if you talk about the Israelis or the Jordanians, the entire region is worried,” Mr. Cheney said on “Fox News Sunday.” He described how the Iranians “sit astride the Straits of Hormuz” and its oil-shipping channels, and how they support Hamas and Hezbollah.

“So the threat that Iran represents is growing,” he said, in words reminiscent of how he once built a case against Mr. Hussein. “It’s multidimensional, and it is, in fact, of concern to everybody in the region.”
366 2007-01-15 BOSTON, Jan. 14 (AP) — A tunnel in the Big Dig highway complex was reopened to traffic on Sunday, six months after a section of its ceiling collapsed and killed a woman in a car.

The eastbound lanes of the Interstate 90 connector tunnel had been closed since the July 10 collapse, which killed Milena Del Valle, 38.

The tunnel was reopened after inspectors approved repairs in which workers installed a bracket-and-hanger system to support the concrete ceiling panels.

With the reopening, just one tunnel remains shut down: a high-occupancy-vehicle lane that is still undergoing repairs.

The $14.6 billion Big Dig project buried Interstate 93 under central Boston and opened new connections to Logan International Airport. It is the most expensive highway project in American history and had been plagued by cost overruns and leaks before the fatal collapse.
367 2007-01-15 KANSAS CITY, Mo., Jan. 14 (AP) — Larry Stewart, a millionaire who became known as Secret Santa for his habit of roaming the streets each December and anonymously handing money to people, died Friday. He was 58.

The cause was complications from esophageal cancer, said a longtime friend, Sheriff Tom Phillips of Jackson County.

Mr. Stewart, who over 26 years gave out $1.3 million, gained international attention in November when he said that he was Secret Santa. He had received a diagnosis of cancer in April, and he said he wanted to use his celebrity to inspire other people to take random kindness seriously.

“That’s what we’re here for,” Mr. Stewart said in a November interview, “to help other people out.”

Mr. Stewart made his millions in cable television and long-distance telephone service.

His private holiday giving started in December 1979 when he was at a drive-in restaurant nursing his wounds from having been fired. It was the second year in a row in which he had been fired the week before Christmas.

“It was cold, and this carhop didn’t have on a very big jacket, and I thought to myself: ‘I think I got it bad? She’s out there in this cold making nickels and dimes,’ ” he said. He gave her $20 and told her to keep the change.
368 2007-01-15 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
369 2007-01-15 What few people realize, though, is that in the 1940s and ’50s we institutionalized people at even higher rates — only it was in mental hospitals and asylums. Simply put, when the data on state and county mental hospitalization rates are combined with the data on prison rates for 1928 through 2000, the imprisonment revolution of the late 20th century barely reaches the level we experienced at mid-century. Our current culture of control is by no means new.

The graph on the left — based on statistics from the federal Census Bureau, Department of Health and Human Services and Bureau of Justice Statistics — shows the aggregate rate of institutionalization per 100,000 adults in the United States from 1928 to 2000, as well as the disaggregated trend lines for mental hospitalization on the one hand and state and federal prisons on the other.

The numbers include only state and county mental hospitals. There were many more kinds of mental institutions at mid-century, ones for “mental defectives and epileptics” and the mentally retarded, psychiatric wards in veterans hospitals, as well as “psychopathic” and private mental hospitals. If we include residents of those facilities, from 1935 to 1963 the United States consistently institutionalized at rates well above 700 per 100,000 adults — with highs of 778 in 1939 and 786 in 1955. It should be clear why there is such a large proportion of mentally ill persons in our prisons: individuals who used to be tracked for mental health treatment are now getting a one-way ticket to jail.

Of course, there are important demographic differences between the two populations. In 1937, women represented 48 percent of residents in state mental hospitals. In contrast, new prison admissions have consistently been 95 percent male. Also, the mental health patients from the 1930s to the 1960s were older and whiter than prison inmates of the 1990s.

But the graph poses a number of troubling questions: Why did we diagnose deviance in such radically different ways over the course of the 20th century? Do we need to be imprisoning at such high rates, or were we right, 50 years ago, to hospitalize instead? Why were so many women hospitalized? Why have they been replaced by young black men? Have both prisons and mental hospitals included large numbers of unnecessarily incarcerated individuals?

Whatever the answers, the pendulum has swung too far — possibly off its hinges.

It would be naïve, today, to address any of these questions without also considering the impact of imprisonment on crime. One of the most reliable studies estimates that the increased prison population over the 1990s accounted for about a third of the overall drop in crime that decade.

However, prisons are not the only institutions that seem to have this effect. In a recent study, I demonstrated that the rate of institutionalization — including mental hospitals — was a far better predictor of serious violent crime from 1926 to 2000 than just prison populations. The data reveal a robust negative relationship between overall institutionalization (prisons and asylums) and homicide. Preliminary findings based on state-level panel data confirm these results.

The effect on crime may not depend on whether the institution is a mental hospital or a prison. Even from a crime-fighting perspective, then, it is time to rethink our prison and mental health policies. A lot more work must be done before proposing answers to those troubling questions. But the first step is to realize that we have been wildly erratic in our approach to deviance, mental health and the prison.
370 2007-01-15 AN ABBREVIATED CITIGROUP -- As part of a rebranding intended to shift the company's focus from deal making to internal and international growth, Citigroup is tentatively planning to shorten its name to Citi and replace its red umbrella logo with a...
371 2007-01-15 For more than two years after Saddam Hussein's fall, the war in Iraq was about chasing down insurgents and Al Qaeda in Iraq. Last year it expanded to tamping down sectarian warfare.     Over the past three weeks, in two sets of raids and newly dis...
372 2007-01-16 Fighting back against a higher $24.8 billion offer from Express Scripts, CVS said Tuesday afternoon that it would pay Caremark Rx holders a special $2 a share dividend. The one-time move is an effort by the drugstore chain to shore up its $23.3 bi...
373 2007-01-16 Currently there are 435 atomic reactors generating electricity in 31 countries across the globe. They fill 6.5 percent of the world's total energy demand and use close to 70,000 tons of enriched uranium per year. Atomic plants produce one-sixth of the total electricity supply -- roughly on par with hydropower.

That number may soon rocket upwards. At present, 29 nuclear power plants are under construction and there are concrete plans to build another 64. Another 158 are under consideration. On the other end of the equation, only six are slowly being shut down in preparation for decommissioning. In response to the growing demand, the price for uranium has increased seven-fold since 2002 and now sells for $72 per pound (454 grams). The fact that no final storage place exists for highly radioactive waste is considered to be but a secondary problem. Indeed, the only terminal repository apparently free from political opposition is that in Finland's Eurajoki where such a site is now under construction. There, nuclear waste will be stored at a maximum depth of 520 meters in shafts bored deep into the granite bedrock.

The main obstacle to the construction of nuclear power plants is no longer the anti-nuclear power lobby, but the huge costs of building them. Whereas in 1970 a brand new reactor cost $400 million, a plant now runs as much as 10 times higher. In the last three decades the nuclear power industry has received subsidies of about $1 billion -- the electricity generated may be clean from a global warming point of view, but it's not cheap.

Nonetheless, power plant construction companies are hoping for a renaissance. E.on has applied to build a new plant in Romania's Cernavoda and Siemens expects orders to triple in the next five years. General Electric too expects a number of new reactors to be built within the next decade, says Ferdinando Beccalli-Falco, a GE manager.

Indeed, a lots of companies stand to benefit. The industry is celebrating the "strategic shift" and preparing for a boom with mergers en vogue. Japan's Toshiba has acquired US-based Westinghouse, General Electric is working together with Hitachi and Mitsubishi Heavy is flirting with the Franco-German global market leader Areva NP, in which Siemens holds a stake.

Until now, France has been virtually alone in its reliance on nuclear technology: Eighty percent of its domestically produced power comes from nuclear plants. The 59 plants allow the country to be mostly self-sufficient, and now this strategy is once again being held up as an example.

Lithuania, for example, urgently wants to replace its aging Ignalina nuclear reactor. Doing so would allow the country to decrease its dependence on Russia, but the price tag is some €3 billion. Ukraine also wants to build more nuclear power plants in order to increase its self-sufficiency, despite the trauma of Chernobyl. Bulgaria and the Czech Republic are both discussing building two new nuclear reactors each.

Poland is considering building a nuclear plant after 2020 since its domestic coal-fired power plants could soon run afoul of EU regulations. Next year the EU wants to tighten the emissions requirements for such polluters. Sites under consideration include Gryfino and Klempicz near Posnan, both of which are close to the German border.

Britain's Labour government wants to prepare the way for new atomic power plants by easing the approval process; many of its aging coal-fired power plants will have to close as a result of new EU standards. Gas-fired plants could help to close the gap, but Europe's two most important suppliers, Russia's Gazprom and Algeria's state-owned Sonatrach, in August signed an agreement that has aroused suspicions in London and Brussels that they will create a cartel similar to OPEC.

EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso adroitly side-stepped the issue last Wednesday when announcing the EU's new energy strategy. Germany is joined by a number of other EU countries in their skepticism toward nuclear power. But he did not conceal his committee's sympathy for atomic power, citing both environmental reasons and issues related to securing Europe's energy supply. Canada and Australia, the two most significant uranium suppliers, are reliable partners. Other suppliers include Kazakhstan, Russia, Uzbekistan, Namibia and Niger. Kazakhstan wants to surpass Canada as the world's leading uranium supplier by 2010, which explains why French, Chinese and Japanese companies are racing to invest there.

India is considering building 19 new reactors, while China wants to construct at least 63 facilities that will be able to supply 50 giga-watts of power. In emerging market Indonesia a single, very modest, nuclear reactor will go online in 2011. In contrast the US is talking about building more than 20 new plants after a 20-year construction moratorium. Washington is providing tax incentives for power plant operators and it also wants to ease the process of obtaining the required permits.

But who is going to pay?

President George W. Bush already enthuses about a "Global Nuclear Energy Partnership" to foster the use of nuclear power while also monitoring to ensure that the technology is not misused by North Korea, Iran or al-Qaida. The US has budgeted $250 million to support the partnership, and the Hill & Knowlton public relations company, which worked for the government during the first Gulf war, has already launched a PR campaign to promote nuclear power.

The need for advertising seems unavoidable, since even the most enthusiastic supporters of the new atomic era cannot deny that it brings with it the same old risks. No one can rule out a meltdown. And no one can guarantee that civilian nuclear research won't be misused. Furthermore, no one knows who is going to pay for all the new facilities.

Moscow wants to build about 30 new reactors, in part because Gazprom doesn't want to sell natural gas on the domestic market at low prices. The Kremlin speculates that it will be able to obtain $30 billion from foreign investors to fund their construction, but this money is not likely to appear soon.

President Putin has called for the former superpower to take a "giant leap" by expanding its nuclear energy sector, but at present it only has one factory capable of manufacturing turbines and reactors. Consequently, Russia can only build one new nuclear power plant every three years. On the other hand, Russia also wants to sell nuclear technology abroad at discount prices, charging roughly 30 percent less than France for its reactors.

Despite the lofty ambitions and impressive figures, the fact remains that 1.6 billion people still do not have access to electricity, while 2.4 billion are forced to meet their energy needs with wood, straw or manure. In this respect, Steve Kidd, the director of strategy and research at London's World Nuclear Association, could be correct. In the nuclear industry, Kidd says, many such grandiose plans often turn out to be delusional.
374 2007-01-16 In an effort to focus on higher-growth wireless and Internet offerings, Verizon Communications will spin off $2.72 billion in landline businesses in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, merging them with FairPoint Communications. Verizon shareholders...
375 2007-01-16 Mirant will sell six natural gas-fired power plants to LS Power Equity Partners, an asset management company, for $1.4 billion, the energy said Tuesday. After accounting for project-level debt, Mirant will reap about $1.3 billion, money that it sa...
376 2007-01-16 The ouster of EMI Music's chairman and chief executive, Alain Levy, is seen by many analysts as a precursor to a radical reorganization of the British music company and a new drive to explore a sale or merger. The label, which counts Norah Jones a...
377 2007-01-16 Hong Kong and Shanghai are locked in an increasingly public struggle to become China's main financial center as a top-level committee in the capital, Beijing, prepares to meet later this month to map out a national financial regulatory strategy. O...
378 2007-01-16 Canadian regulators will require fund managers to be registered with provincial securities commissions as part of a multi-pronged project to improve oversight of the hedge fund sector. The Canadian Securities Administrators, an umbrella group for ...
379 2007-01-16 Indian state-owned Power Finance has confirmed its intention to raise up to $225 million from the first sizable initial public offering in the Indian market this year. The announcement came as the Mumbai benchmark index closed at a record high aft...
380 2007-01-16 In the latest example of hedge fund activism, the largest shareholder in the struggling chip equipment maker Ultratech has called for management to bolster sales or consider selling the company. In a letter filed with the Securities and Exchange C...
381 2007-01-16 Saudi Arabia’s oil minister said today that he saw no need for OPEC to hold an emergency meeting about declining crude oil prices. His remarks quelled speculation that the oil cartel would take steps soon to prop up prices, which have slid by about 16 percent since the beginning of the year.

Producing nations like Venezuela and Algeria, worried about falling revenue, have been seeking a quick OPEC meeting, before the next scheduled gathering on March 15, to consider new cuts in production quotas that would tighten supply and raise prices.

But Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi minister and OPEC’s most authoritative voice, said he expected oil prices to rebound on their own once the production cuts already adopted by the cartel take effect on Feb. 1.

Oil prices peaked at record-high levels above $77 a barrel in July 2006 and have been generally declining since then. Twice last fall, OPEC pledged to pare its output in hopes of stemming the slide, but an unusually warm autumn and early winter in North America has depressed demand even more, and stockpiles in developed nations have grown. Contracts for future delivery have fallen by $10 a barrel just in the last two weeks. Today’s news quickly knocked the February contract down another $1.64, reaching $51.35 a barrel in midday trading in New York.

Mr. Naimi, who has steered the oil markets with assurance since the late 1990s, seemed confident today that oil prices would stabilize as colder weather sets in across the United States. His comments also seemed intended to prompt other OPEC members to fulfill their pledges and actually reduce production.
382 2007-01-16 NASHVILLE, Jan. 16 — A train derailment south of Louisville, Ky., ignited an explosion today that forced the evacuation of area homes and a school, according to Kentucky emergency officials.

The CSX train derailed about 9 a.m. in Brooks, Ky., bursting into flames that consumed 14 train cars and sent dense black clouds of smoke billowing into the air. Officials shut down more than 20 miles of nearby Interstate 65 and closed airspace over the fire as a precaution, said Yvette Smith, a spokeswoman for the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management.

State emergency officials ordered the evacuation of all homes within a mile radius of the fire and asked all residents of Bullitt County, which is directly south of Louisville, to stay inside, shut their windows and bring pets inside, Ms. Smith said.

Maj. Lisa Rudzinski of the State Police said 11 people had sought medical attention.

A few people were “reluctant” to evacuate, but complied, said Governor Ernie Fletcher at a televised news conference, after he and other state officials flew over the site to evaluate the situation.

Early in the afternoon, a fire official said the danger of explosion had been reduced and that the fire was “winding down successfully.”

The source of the fire was the chemical cyclohexane, a highly flammable chemical and eye and skin irritant, Major Rudzinskisaid. The train also carried the chemical butadiene, which is hazardous if inhaled, but it was not clear whether that car had ruptured, Major Rudzinski said.
383 2007-01-16 MELBOURNE, Australia, Tuesday, Jan. 16 (AP) — Top-seeded Maria Sharapova narrowly avoided a stunning third-set collapse, overcoming the soaring heat and her own mistakes to defeat Camille Pin, 6-3, 4-6, 9-7, in the first round of the Australian Open on Tuesday.

The heat — it was 97 degrees and muggy at midday — forced tournament officials to suspend play on the outside courts.

Sharapova, her screeching intensifying as the temperature and the pressure increased, won five straight games to open the third set before Pin rallied with five in a row, fending off match points in the eighth game, to tie score at 5-5.

Sharapova, after wasting another match point in the 12th game, was broken again and allowed Pin to serve for the match.

The 19-year-old Sharapova got back on serve when Pin double-faulted on breakpoint to make the score 7-7, then won the next 8 points to advance to end the match.
384 2007-01-16 When they realized what they had done — becoming everything they had preached against — several New England players rushed over to San Diego running back LaDainian Tomlinson. The Patriots reached out to Tomlinson and tried to make peace.

It was too late. Tomlinson swiped their hands away and angrily turned toward the locker room, shouting: “You’re better than that! You’re better than that!”

With that, the Patriots’ pristine image was slightly tarnished. They are no longer the goodie-goodies of the N.F.L. They suddenly look a lot like everyone else.

Some will say that Tomlinson had a case of sour grapes, but he was voted the league’s most valuable player this season, has won numerous sportsmanship awards, and is widely respected by his peers. In his six-year career, he had never really spoken out about any subject.

“I was very upset,” Tomlinson said. “They showed no class at all, absolutely no class, and maybe it comes from their head coach.”

Perhaps Tomlinson watched too many games between the Patriots and the Jets this season. After one meeting, New England Coach Bill Belichick refused to acknowledge Jets Coach Eric Mangini. After another meeting, in a first-round playoff game, Belichick shoved a cameraman out of the way to get to Mangini.

Belichick has never been known for an endearing personality. He is famous mainly for devising defenses that unsettle star players. Having failed to contain Tomlinson on Sunday, Belichick will now return to a more familiar target for the American Football Conference championship game — Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning.

Indianapolis lost to New England in the playoffs in the 2003 and 2004 seasons, but the dynamic has shifted somewhat. Back then, the Patriots were playing at home, they were the sentimental choice, and they had Adam Vinatieri kicking field goals for them.

Now, the Colts are at home, Vinatieri is on their side, and they seem to be winning the sympathy vote. Despite Manning’s regular-season brilliance, he has never been to the Super Bowl, and the Patriots are the team most often in his way.

Manning and Brady are widely considered the best quarterbacks in the N.F.L., for much different reasons. Manning puts up the biggest numbers, while Brady provides the biggest victories. Manning’s playoff failures and Brady’s playoff triumphs have already become legend.

Both quarterbacks won short-handed this season. Manning lost his top tailback, Edgerrin James, to free agency. Brady lost his two top receivers, David Givens and Deion Branch, to free agency and a trade. For months, New England and Indianapolis looked tired. Baltimore and San Diego were the cream of the conference.

But the Patriots and the Colts endured again, on the strength of their experience and guile. No team is better at manufacturing motivation late in a season than the Patriots, who seize on any kind of slight, real or imagined.

Last week, the Patriots complained that San Diego Coach Marty Schottenheimer did not respect them, just as they complained two years ago that Philadelphia receiver Freddie Mitchell did not respect them and Indianapolis place-kicker Mike Vanderjagt did not respect them.

In the past, the Patriots responded simply with victories. On Sunday, they responded with a victory and an in-your-face celebration. Around the N.F.L., such displays are common. In New England, they were always seen as uncouth.

The Patriots offended the Chargers in the same way that the Patriots are so often offended. These two teams and their delicate sensibilities will meet next season in New England, but first the Patriots will head to Indianapolis for the A.F.C. championship game.

They are looking for their fourth Super Bowl in six years, and finally, a bit of respect.
385 2007-01-16 Conservatives are skeptical that such a search for common ground is much more than a shift in tactics.

“I can tell you what I expect,” said Douglas Johnson, legislative director of the National Right to Life Committee. “I think the Democratic leadership will seek to advance the policy agenda of the hardcore groups but do so under the cover of deceptive rhetorical campaigns.”

Whatever the Democrats do, these issues retain their power to divide. Monday is the 34th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court decision recognizing a constitutional right to abortion; it will highlight anew, with a day of marches and protests, the fundamental question of abortion’s legality.

But the Democrats’ moves toward consensus-building on issues that often resist consensus reflect their effort to adjust to a new political reality. Their majority is slimmer than it was the last time they were in power, especially in the Senate. The country, some pollsters say, has grown more conservative on abortion and other social issues.

And conservatives, by controlling which legislation came to the floor, succeeded in defining the debate over social issues for more than a decade, through votes on same-sex marriage and the procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion, in ways that highlighted the political limits of liberalism.

One measure of how the legislative debate has shifted is that the last time the Democrats were in power, one of the biggest abortion fights was over whether abortions should be covered in the benefit package guaranteed under the Clinton administration’s national health insurance plan, which eventually collapsed. Abortion rights leaders focus on far more modest goals today.

In the past 12 years, Democratic strategists say they have learned some hard lessons. Many said they were dismayed to see the religion gap after the 2004 election, with the Republicans’ overwhelming strength among churchgoers and the widespread perception that Democrats were a secular party insensitive to issues of values.

Since then, party leaders say, they have tried hard to connect with those voters, to convince them that, as Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said, “We are not a bunch of libertines who want to see the superego of society disappear.” Some of the new, prominent Democrats in Congress, like Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, are social conservatives, recruited and cited by Democratic leaders as evidence of the party’s diversity.

Over the past two years, Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, formerly the caucus chairman, now the majority whip, has led a “faith working group” in the House in an effort, Mr. Clyburn said, to get members “more comfortable with these issues and more connected with values voters.”

Part of this effort involved broadening the definition of values-related issues, he said, to include economic issues like raising the minimum wage, assisting low-income children with health insurance and shoring up Social Security.

“That’s Old Testament Bible, taking care of widows and orphans,” Mr. Clyburn said.

Some House Democrats said they had also learned to be more open about their own religious life.

“We, for a very long time, left the definition of ourselves as Democrats to others,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, an abortion-rights supporter and one of 55 Catholic Democrats in the House who signed a Catholic Statement of Principles last year, essentially saying that their faith involved more than their position on abortion. “But I think people finally felt enough. Enough. It’s about who we are, where we come from, what our culture and environment has been.”

Ms. DeLauro is one of the leaders in the House on legislation that would try to reduce the need for abortion and provide economic support to new parents.

Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, highlighted her Catholicism in her first week in office, with two high-profile church services in Washington. There have been occasional protests from religious conservatives, challenging the rights of Democrats like Mrs. Pelosi to present themselves as both good Christians and supporters of abortion rights. But Democrats did do better among Catholic voters in last year’s elections, carrying 55 percent of their vote in House races, compared with 49 percent in 2004.

In large part, analysts say, that reflects voters responding to the Democrats on Iraq and the economic agenda, another element of the Democrats’ common ground strategy, keeping the debate focused on issues of greatest concern to the voters in the middle. “Our first focus is on the meat and potatoes issues that affect all Americans,” Mr. Schumer said.

Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who advises Congressional leaders, said, “Most swing voters think that these social issues are issues that both sides love to have fights over, but that they don’t really have a stake in.”

In fact, Democrats, like Republicans, have long had to fight the notion that they are in thrall to the advocacy groups because of these hot-button issues. Republicans clearly took a dip in the polls after their intervention in the right-to-die case of Terri Schiavo, and many strategists say their intense pursuit of a ban on same-sex marriage and other conservative causes ultimately backfired, making them seem out of touch.

Democrats, after 12 years in the wilderness, say they are not likely to repeat those mistakes. But as Mr. Johnson of the right to life committee and other skeptics note, the true test of the Democrats’ common ground campaign may not come until there is a major court fight, especially a vacancy on the Supreme Court. When the fundamental debate over the extent of abortion rights is front and center, common ground will be hard to find.
386 2007-01-16 MADRID, Jan. 15 (AP) — Spain’s prime minister apologized Monday for putting his faith in a Basque peace effort that collapsed in a deadly car bombing in December, but he insisted he was right to have sought negotiations with separatist militants and appealed to his political foes for unity at a time of crisis.

In a speech to Parliament that was often interrupted by jeers and grumbles from conservative lawmakers, Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero did not announce any concrete new measures against the armed separatist group ETA.

He said that police pressure and court trials had continued during the now ended cease-fire with the group, and that such measures would remain. “I want to recognize the clear mistake I made before all Spanish citizens,” he said.

Mr. Zapatero, the Socialist leader, who faces a general election in early 2008, appeared at a session of Parliament dedicated exclusively to the government’s policy toward ETA in the wake of the bombing, the group’s first fatal one since May 2003.

He defended his record and sought to muster support for his government, though the conservatives have called him naïve for seeking to negotiate with what they called a terrorist group that could not be trusted.

The bombing on Dec. 30 destroyed a parking garage outside of Madrid’s airport and killed two young Ecuadorean men.
387 2007-01-16 Perlos has been hurt by the bankruptcy of BenQ’s phone unit, which ran out of cash in September and has dragged down phone suppliers. Perlos, which makes plastic and metal cellphone covers and casings as well as the internal mechanics, connectors and structures of phones, employed 12,944 people at the end of 2006. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

PROFIT FOR SOFTWARE MAKER Tata Consultancy Services, the software maker, said third-quarter profit rose 47 percent as it raised rates and cut costs by shifting work to China, India and Latin America. Net income climbed to 11 billion rupees ($248 million), in the quarter ended Dec. 31, from 7.5 billion rupees a year earlier. Sales gained 41 percent in the quarter. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

INCOME TRUST TO REORGANIZE The True Energy Trust said that it planned to convert back into a corporation and reduce payouts to investors by 83 percent, the first income trust to revamp its structure since Canada introduced changes to income trust tax rules in October.

The change from the trust format — where most of the company’s cash is paid out to unit holders in return for low corporate taxes — is in response to the government’s decision in October to remove the tax advantage by 2011. (REUTERS)

SUEZ INVESTOR SELLS An investor in the French utility Suez, the Knight Vinke Asset Management, sold its stake in the company after a campaign to derail a merger valued at 45.4 billion euros ($58.7 billion) with Gaz de France helped send the stock to a record high. Knight sold the stake, less than 1 percent of Suez’s outstanding shares, in the last 10 days, the chief investment officer, Eric Knight, said. The fund had earlier said that a fair price for Suez was 38 euros to 42 euros a share and began selling when Suez stock hit 39 euros amid speculation that rival bidders would step in. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

SHAREHOLDER VOTE DELAYED Britain’s largest residential real estate broker, Countrywide, delayed a shareholder vote on a takeover bid by the 3i Group valued at £1.02 billion ($2 billion) after some investors said the offer was too low. The vote will be in the next two to three weeks, Countrywide said.

3i, the publicly traded buyout firm, asked for the delay in order to contact Countrywide’s main shareholders. Three investors owning about 16.5 percent of Countrywide say that 3i’s offer does not reflect Britain’s booming housing market. But rising borrowing costs may put a brake on the market, some lenders said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

AIRBUS SELLS FREIGHTERS An aircraft leasing company, the Intrepid Aviation Group, has signed commitments to buy 20 Airbus A330-200F freighters, the aircraft maker said. Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, started its freighter version of the A330 passenger jet last year. Subject to their confirmation by Intrepid — which is owned by the Reservoir Capital Group of New York — the first of the freighters will be delivered in early 2010, Airbus said. (AP)

HONDA LOOKS FOR INDIA PLANT The Honda Motor Company will invest $150 million to $200 million to build a second plant in India to meet growing demands for cars there, a Honda spokeswoman, Yasuko Matsuura, said. Honda will locate the plant in the northwestern state of Rajasthan. That plant will begin operating in the first half of 2009 with an initial capacity of 50,000 cars a year, and Honda plans to increase it gradually, she said. The company plans to find a site large enough to produce 200,000 cars a year. Honda has a plant in Uttar Pradesh with the production capacity of 50,000 cars. (AP)

EUROTUNNEL PLAN APPROVED The Paris Commercial court has approved a debt reduction plan for Eurotunnel, paving the way for a fresh start for the company and a share swap for battered equity investors. The court said that legal challenges were still likely but that the company could start its reorganization plan. The court gave Eurotunnel 36 months to reorganize. A new Groupe Eurotunnel will make a share swap offer for the current share units of Eurotunnel and at least 60 percent of investors have to accept the offer for it to go ahead. (REUTERS)

ACQUISITION OF HOMES FOR ELDERLY Ventas Inc., a real estate investment trust that owns health care facilities, agreed to buy Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust for 1.14 billion Canadian dollars ($974 million) to add 74 seniors residences in Canada and the United States, the company. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

STRIKE VOTE AT BRITISH AIRWAYS Thousands of employees at British Airways have voted to strike after disputes involving sick pay and pensions, union officials said. Some 96 percent of cabin crews voting supported a strike, the Transport and General Workers Union said. No strike deadline was set. Cabin crew workers had claimed the airline pressured them to come to work even if they felt sick, the union said. A separate dispute focused on pension plans. (AP)
388 2007-01-16 Next came a survey of another mythic, maverick contemporary figure, Cady Noland, consisting entirely of Triple Candie-made replicas of her installations. Now comes a third retrospective, a posthumous one, the first and almost certainly the last, ever devoted to an artist named Lester Hayes.

The child of an African-American father and an Italian-American mother, Hayes was born in Philadelphia in 1936. Bright and ambitious, he majored in chemical engineering in college but after reading Robert Motherwell’s anthology of Dada painters and poets, started making sculptural assemblages.

In 1962, after deciding on art as a career, he moved to New York City, where he worked as Richard Tuttle’s first studio assistant, was courted by Leo Castelli and in 1967, at 31, had a first solo at Richard Feigen Gallery, a show that included a mural-size work made of unpainted, unstretched canvases titled “Elegy in Seven Parts (for Lena Horne).”

Hayes seemed assured of success, but the show was a bust; he sold almost nothing. The timing, it turned out, was bad. His post-Minimalist, proto-Conceptualist style had not yet come into fashion in the mainstream art world. And, despite its racially charged content, his work was too abstract to be identified with a new Black Power aesthetic, from which, in any case, he distanced himself by turning down invitations to appear in exclusively black art shows.

According to the Hayes biography supplied by Triple Candie, Feigen quickly canceled plans to give the artist a second show. Stricken and destitute, Hayes took a bartending job, and finally a teaching job at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he ended up staying for nearly 20 years.

He continued to make art, but after he retired to North Carolina in 1984, the house he lived in caught fire, and his accumulated artwork was destroyed. (Triple Candie notes that every piece in the exhibition is a replica made for the occasion.) Despondent and alone, he died of complications from diabetes in 2004.

The Hayes story is a familiar one, and of a kind the art world loves. Not only was he tragically unrecognized but, we now learn, he was also hugely influential. Gallery news material notes that his 1965 Lena Horne piece, made while he was working for Mr. Tuttle, anticipated by two years the first of Mr. Tuttle’s unstretched canvas pieces. And another Hayes work, “Bound to Fail” (1966), which refers to slavery, predates by a year Bruce Nauman’s “Henry Moore Bound to Fail.”

The politics of influence are unmistakable. White artists adapt the work of an African-American artist, but drain it of racial content. The same white artists achieve prominence, while the black artist sinks into an obscurity from which he should now, finally, be raised.

But he will not be raised, because there is no Lester Hayes. He never existed. He is entirely an invention of Triple Candie. The gallery’s directors, Shelly Bancroft and Peter Nesbett, the co-publishers of the magazine Art on Paper, who assembled the Hammons survey from photocopies and the Noland from replicas, cobbled together all the “Hayes” work from scrap material and cooked up the detailed biography to go with it.

So, with no real artist and no real art, what do you have here? You have many questions raised about art and the often unquestioned ideas surrounding it, like originality, authenticity, influence, history, formal value and biography-as-value. Is contemporary art largely a promotional scam perpetuated by — in no particular order of blame — museums, dealers, critics, historians, collectors, art schools and anyone else who has a sufficient personal, professional or financial investment riding on the scam to want to keep it afloat?

If you are affected — moved, amused, provoked — by the assembled Hayes oeuvre, then is it art? Are Ms. Bancroft and Mr. Nesbett artists? (They would certainly say no.) Are they themselves perpetrators of a scam? Or are they critical thinkers working in an alternative direction to the market economy? Imagine the consequences if lots of people started creating “fake” art without acknowledging what they were up to? The whole art-as-investment illusion would evaporate. The market would crumble. Art myths could no longer be trusted. The Triple Candie’s Hayes biography, in other words, is spun largely from myths and clichés that sell art and artists today.

As for the “Hayes” art in the show, with its junk materials, slapdash handiwork and jokey titles, it’s not much. Or, rather, it’s exactly an alternative to “much.” When the show, which runs through Sunday, comes down, everything will be destroyed. And the gallery, which runs on a small budget and has a tiny board of directors, will go on to other projects, including a planned re-creation of one of the most controversial museum shows of the latter half of the 20th century, the Metropolitan Museum’s 1969 “Harlem on My Mind.”

When that show opened, it was bitterly attacked for perpetuating racist myths and substituting documentary material for actual work by black artists. Can such charges be leveled at Triple Candie for the Lester Hayes show? Is it an example of the white art world — Ms. Bancroft and Mr. Nesbett are white — getting mileage out of the work of a black artist, real or not?

According to his biography, Hayes was invited by fellow African-American artists to join them in protesting the Met exhibition, but he refused, stating that “it was ultimately more important for our community as a whole to be better understood, than for specific individuals to be celebrated via their work.” Maybe he and his work, however uncelebratable, will get a dollar-glutted art world thinking in more complex and alternative ways than he, had he existed, could possibly know.
389 2007-01-16 Children of women with less than a high school education are more likely to have received timely childhood vaccinations than the children of college graduates, according to a new study.

The paper, published online Dec. 28, will appear in the February issue of The American Journal of Public Health. Scientists studied data on 11,860 families from the National Immunization Survey, a nationwide survey of vaccination among children 19 to 35 months old that includes information on race, ethnicity and socioeconomic status.

Children of mothers who had not completed high school were 16 percent more likely to have up-to-date vaccinations than children of college graduates. While black children were 11 percent less likely to be up to date than white children, Hispanic children were 11 percent more likely. The poorest children, without considering race or ethnicity, were just as likely as the richest to have completed their vaccination schedule.

“The way the health care system is organized for immunization services may account for the variations,” said Jennie J. Kronenfeld, the senior author of the study. “Or cultural differences may overcome the barriers to immunization that they don’t in other kinds of health care.”

Dr. Kronenfeld, a professor of sociology in the School of Social and Family Dynamics at Arizona State University, offered a possible explanation for the difference between the children of college graduates and those of mothers who had not graduated from high school. “There is a controversy among more educated mothers about the safety of certain kinds of immunization,” she said. “That may be part of what is going on here, but we don’t know for sure.”
390 2007-01-16 Higher folate intake from food and supplements may decrease the risk of Alzheimer’s disease, a new study suggests.

Researchers followed 965 Medicare recipients 65 or older for an average of six years, administering diet questionnaires to estimate their intake of folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12, and performing medical examinations at about 18-month intervals. Members of the study group lived in northern Manhattan, were largely Hispanic and black, and had high levels of diabetes, hypertension and other vascular risk factors. Alzheimer’s developed in 192 of them.

After adjusting for age, hypertension, current smoking and other variables, those in the highest one-quarter in total folate intake, from both diet and supplements, were 50 percent less likely to develop Alzheimer’s than those in the lowest one-quarter. There was no significant association of Alzheimer’s risk with dietary folate alone, or with vitamin B12 or vitamin B6 intake.

Dr. José A. Luchsinger, the lead author and an assistant professor of medicine and epidemiology at Columbia, said there was nothing definitive in these results.

“This study is observational, not a clinical trial,” he said. “It builds evidence and suggests hypotheses, but should not be used to recommend treatment.”

The authors, writing in the January issue of The Archives of Neurology, suggest that folate lowers blood levels of homocysteine, which may decrease the risk of brain atrophy. It may also be that folate reduces the risk for cerebrovascular disease, which is another potential pathway for Alzheimer’s.
391 2007-01-16 “There’s clearly a strong demand for watching movies,” said Brian Pitz, an analyst with Banc of America Securities. “But the company’s earnings are going to be more negatively impacted,” said Mr. Pitz, who has a sell recommendation on Netflix shares.

Netflix is also entering a more crowded market that includes not only the likes of Apple and Amazon, but also MovieLink, CinemaNow and video-on-demand services offered by cable companies. And while Netflix’s DVD rental business has thrived in part because of the company’s superior logistics, that competitive edge will not mean much in the world of digital distribution.

Still, Mr. Hastings said Netflix has a product that compares well with those of his competitors. He particularly emphasized Netflix’s business model — free to subscribers — and its focus on instant gratification.

Last week, Mr. Hastings demonstrated the system at Netflix’s headquarters in Los Gatos, Calif. On a laptop PC, he pulled up a Netflix Web page where some titles displayed a “Play” button in addition to the company’s familiar “Add” button, which adds movies to a subscriber’s queue for mailing. Within a few seconds of hitting the “Play” button, the opening credits of “The World’s Fastest Indian” began rolling. The service uses streaming technology that Netflix built on top of Microsoft software.

First-time users of the service must download a special piece of software, which, if all goes well, also takes only a few seconds. (When a reporter tried the system at home, however, the process stalled because of a mismatch between the version of Microsoft’s antipiracy software expected by the Netflix viewer and the one loaded in the PC, and it took about 15 minutes to fix the problem with the help of a customer-support specialist. A Netflix spokesman said the problem was known, but occurred only rarely.)

Like most other electronic distribution services, Netflix’s system will work initially only with a limited catalog — about 1,000 movies and television shows, only a tiny fraction of the more than 70,000 titles that Netflix offers for rent. It offers titles from NBC Universal, Sony Pictures, MGM, 20th Century Fox, Paramount Pictures, Warner Brothers and others.

The service, which will be introduced over six months, works only on recent versions of Windows and Internet Explorer. Over time, Mr. Hastings hopes to expand the catalog of titles and make the service available on other hardware and software combinations, including set-top boxes, television screens and portable devices.

The bulk of Netflix’s subscribers, who pay $18 a month and are allowed to keep three movies at home at all times, will receive 18 hours of free watching every month. Those with cheaper plans will have fewer free hours and those with premium services will receive more.

By comparison, typical movie rentals cost $3 to $4 on Amazon, and $3 to $5 on MovieLink, though special promotions are available. Mr. Hastings said he chose the instant delivery afforded by streaming technology over downloads, which can take a while, because it would encourage subscribers to use the system to browse the catalog and discover new movies. If they do not like a movie, they can stop it and will be charged only for the minutes they actually watched.

Yet even as he touts the benefits of his own service, Mr. Hastings does not believe that electronic distribution, be it through downloads or streaming services, is ready for prime time.

“The market is microscopic,” Mr. Hastings said. “DVD is going to be a very big market for a very long time.”

In the case of online movies, two forces, one technological and one commercial, are keeping the market from developing more quickly. On the technological front, it is still difficult to deliver various Internet video formats to a TV screen. And on the commercial front, movie studios are leery of piracy and, more important, are fearful of cannibalizing their existing distribution businesses.

Frances Manfredi, senior vice president for cable distribution at NBC Universal, said her company wanted to provide video content “where consumers want it, when they want it, how they want it.” But, she added, “we really recognize that the traditional distribution businesses of cable and syndication are our primary businesses, certainly with respect to revenue generation.”

Ms. Manfredi said the agreement with Netflix, which includes classic TV shows like “Kojak” and “Columbo,” as well as more recent ones like “The Office,” and “Law & Order Special Victims Unit,” and some 350 movies including “The Motorcycle Diaries,” would deliver new revenue without hurting existing businesses.

Some analysts believe the hurdles to mass digital distribution will not disappear any time soon. And if Mr. Hastings is right about the staying power of DVDs, his biggest challenge in the short term is likely to come from a business that appeared to be in freefall until recently: Blockbuster.

Facing competition from Netflix, and from growing DVD sales at big-box retailers, Blockbuster shares began a steady slide in late 2003, from more than $22 to a low of $3.20 in March last year. In 2005, the company eliminated late fees — an irritant to many customers, and the issue that had prompted Mr. Hastings to found Netflix. The move cost Blockbuster hundreds of millions in revenue.

But Blockbuster’s own online rental service, introduced in 2004, has finally taken off.

With aggressive promotion of a new service called Total Access, which costs the same as Netflix’s service for three movies, and allows subscribers to exchange movies in stores, Blockbuster has added a staggering 700,000 subscribers since Nov. 1. After the company announced that it ended 2006 with 2.2 million subscribers, Blockbuster shares now stand at $6.43, up from $5.48 at the beginning of the year.

“I wouldn’t be surprised to see our online subscribers double by the end of 2007,” John F. Antioco, the chief executive of Blockbuster, said. Mr. Antioco said Blockbuster was planning to offer a digital distribution service later this year. “We have everything that Netflix has, plus the immediate gratification of never having to wait for a movie.”

It is unclear whether Blockbuster’s growth has been at the expense of Netflix, though a first glimpse into that may be offered next week, when Netflix reports fourth-quarter earnings.

The two companies are fighting not just in the marketplace. Netflix has sued Blockbuster, accusing it of patent infringement, and Blockbuster has countersued Netflix, alleging antitrust violations.

Mr. Hastings played down the competition. “We have a lot of room to grow,” he said, adding that he expects Blockbuster’s online business to grow as well. “Our relative execution will determine what the share split is” between Netflix and Blockbuster, he added.

In the meantime, he said, Netflix’s digital delivery service represents insurance against technological obsolescence, and against more predictions of Netflix’s demise.

“We have seen so many Silicon Valley companies follow a single generation of computing,” Mr. Hastings said. “Investors are rightfully scared of single-model companies.”
392 2007-01-16 Isabel Bayrakdarian, the soprano, and Russell Braun, the baritone, were to have shared a recital on Sunday afternoon at the Morgan Library & Museum. Both singers are Canadian, as are the pianists they work with, and at the last minute, visa problems prevented Mr. Braun from traveling to New York. So Ms. Bayrakdarian and her pianist, Serouj Kradjian (they are also married), added two groups of songs and a solo piano work to the Schubert and Pauline Viardot groups they had planned, and had the recital all to themselves.

The amended program was a tour of national styles filtered through 19th- and early-20th-century sensibilities, and Ms. Bayrakdarian was at her most vivid when the music drew most overtly on folk music and dance roots. She gave a florid account of “L’Invito,” the bolero from Rossini’s “Soirées Musicales,” for example, and her reading of the “Tarantella Napoletana” from the same set was brisk, fiery and suffused with an undercurrent of sensuality.

Ernesto Lecuona’s “Malagueña” was enlivened with a similarly vital performance. Here, and in its companion works in her Spanish set — “Del cabello más sutil” and “Chiquitita la novia” by Fernando Obradors — Ms. Bayrakdarian caught the essence of the music in her subtly shifting tempos and flamenco-tinged vocalise passages.

Spain seemed to exert an unusual pull on Ms. Bayrakdarian and Mr. Kradjian. Two of the Viardot songs, “Madrid” and “Havanaise,” emphasized the composer’s Spanish roots and drew on flamenco figuration as fully as the Obradors songs. On the other hand, in his pastel-hued performance of Granados’s “Quejas o la maja y el ruiseñor,” from “Goyescas,” Mr. Kradjian highlighted the stylistic connections between Granados and his French contemporary Ravel.

Ms. Bayrakdarian put Viardot’s Gallic side in the spotlight as well, by way of gracefully turned performances of “Sylvie,” the gently macabre “Enfant et la mère” and the swirling “Aime-moi,” a reworking of a Chopin mazurka.

The recital, part of the series that the George London Foundation has presented at the Morgan since 1995, began with a group of Schubert songs in which Ms. Bayrakdarian acclimated herself to the small, acoustically bright new hall. At first she seemed to overestimate the power she needed, but by the third song, she had taken the room’s measure, giving a beautifully serene performance of “Nacht und Träume” that showed her interpretive flexibility and expressive sound to fine effect.
393 2007-01-16 Asked if he was suggesting that Hong Kong was becoming like New York and Shanghai like Chicago, Mr. Arculli said twice that this was his goal, adding, “We stand a decent shot of making it there.”

That is hardly the view from Shanghai. City leaders and academics point out their biggest advantage: the currency circulating in the streets and markets is the yuan, which foreigners can buy and sell only with difficulty.

Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has its own currency, the Hong Kong dollar, which is linked to the United States dollar. The Hong Kong dollar is internationally convertible but cannot be easily exchanged for yuan on the mainland because of China’s capital controls.

“The independent monetary system restricts Hong Kong’s ambition to become the financial capital of the country,” said Pan Yingli, a professor in the School of Management at Shanghai Jiaotong University.

In back-to-back ceremonies and briefings Monday at the main government offices here and at the convention center, Hong Kong officials tried to exploit Shanghai’s temporary political weakness and push Beijing into making Hong Kong the primary financial center of China.

“If we do not act now,” David Li, chairman of the Bank of East Asia, warned at a government briefing, “inertia will set in and business will gravitate to established financial centers overseas.”

Hong Kong and Shanghai are not just competing with each other — they are also vying with Tokyo and Singapore to become the most important financial center in Asia. Each wants to be the place where investment banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other big investors send their best and brightest to oversee trading during the hours after the sun sets in New York and before it rises in London.

Each city has its strengths. Tokyo has the region’s largest stock and bond markets, although they have attracted less attention lately because they lack the appeal of the Chinese economic boom. Singapore is the main center for trading oil and other energy products, and is an important hub for currency trading.

But the most intense rivalry is between Hong Kong and Shanghai. Each strives to impress businesses and regulators that it is the best place for Chinese businesses to raise money and investors to give it to them.

It is one of the oldest rivalries in Asia, dating back more than a century. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, these days HSBC, was started in Hong Kong on March 3, 1865, and opened for business in Shanghai a month later.

While Shanghai overshadowed Hong Kong in many ways before World War II, Hong Kong regained leadership after the Communist takeover in 1949, and benefited from the emigration of thousands of Shanghai business people. And in the 1990’s, the rise of a Shanghai faction of politicians in China, including President Jiang Zemin, resulted in many policies that favored their city.

Since taking China’s top jobs in late 2002 and 2003, President Hu Jintao has tried to limit Shanghai’s influence. With the city mired in its corruption scandal, Hong Kong is trying to seize the initiative again. As Hong Kong’s leaders repeated again and again Monday, Hong Kong has advantages now that include the rule of law, extensive financial expertise, a tradition of strong corporate governance, widespread knowledge of English and close ties to global markets.

As a result of listings by big Chinese banks and other institutions, Hong Kong’s main stock exchange had a greater volume of initial public offerings last year — valued at $41.22 billion — than any other stock exchange, although more money was raised in London over all.

But while Hong Kong aspires to be an international financial center, it is sometimes derided in Asia as a one-legged stool — a powerhouse in equities trading, including a doubling of trading in stocks and derivative warrants last year, but without another leg to stand on.

Close to 200 bond issues are listed here, but local banks and insurance companies tend to buy them up when issued and then sit on them for years, with minimal trading. The local government runs a budget surplus, and while it has issued a small volume of bonds to help create a market, these also trade in very low volume.

While corporate bond trading is still in its infancy in Shanghai as well, the trading of government debt securities there has picked up. The Chinese central bank has had to issue tens of billions of dollars worth of notes to sop up the enormous amounts in yuan it is pushing into the market to prevent China’s currency from appreciating in value against other currencies.

Hong Kong business leaders are dismissive of Shanghai’s stock market — Paul Chow, chief executive of the Hong Kong exchange, said in an interview Friday that it “is predominantly a retail market, Hong Kong is not.” But although Shanghai’s stock market is still considerably smaller than Hong Kong’s, it is also rising faster and was the world’s top performer last year, up 130 percent.

Shanghai has lost a couple rounds lately. The government authorized Hong Kong last Wednesday to begin trading bonds denominated in Chinese yuan, and has selected Tianjin, not Shanghai, for an experiment with limited convertibility of the yuan.

Hong Kong also plans to start trading nondeliverable futures contracts on the yuan this summer, Mr. Chow said. And while officials directed General Motors in 1997 to open its initial Chinese car assembly plant in Shanghai, it steered Airbus last year to select Tianjin, a big port near Beijing, for an aircraft assembly plant.

But Shanghai is becoming an important center of commodities trading. It has just passed Tokyo in the biggest market for trading natural rubber, testimony to the buying power of Chinese industrial companies.

Hong Kong has very little commodities trading, losing much of its former role in international gold markets. Hong Kong gold prices were quoted around the world in the 1980s, but have become much less important as the handful of local gold traders continue to do business exclusively in Chinese and have not welcomed international banks and trading houses.

Mainland China still has many restrictions on the private ownership of gold, slowing but not preventing the creation of a modern gold market in Shanghai with ambitions to become an important force in global trading. Shanghai is also setting up futures markets to allow Chinese traders to place bets on the direction of the country’s interest rates.

Experts said that Shanghai was likely to become an increasingly formidable competitor in years to come, and expressed doubt that Hong Kong leaders would succeed in persuading the Chinese government to give their city clear regulatory preference over its rival to the north. Beijing officials are still more likely to think of Shanghai than Hong Kong as a domestic financial market entitled to regulatory favors.

“Shanghai is in a temporary eclipse because of these political factors,” said Jack Lange, a partner in the Hong Kong office of the Paul, Weiss law firm. “But Shanghai is where it’s happening — if there is going to be a domestic financial center that gives Hong Kong a run for its money, it’s going to be Shanghai.”
394 2007-01-16 Stock markets around the world closed higher yesterday, with European indexes buoyed by merger and acquisition activity, while markets in the United States were closed for Martin Luther King’s Birthday.

Many of the markets were riding the gains on Friday in American markets, when the Dow Jones industrial average had its 24th record close since the start of October.

Most Asian markets gained ground, with Hong Kong’s benchmark index returning above the 20,000 level, aided by gains in the Japanese and Chinese exchanges. The Hang Seng Index surged 2.3 percent, to close at 20,068.56, while Nikkei 225 index in Tokyo advanced 0.90 percent, to 17,209.92.

The FTSE 100 Index rose 0.4 percent, to 6,263.50, while the DAX Index in Germany gained 0.4 percent, to 6,731.74, and the CAC 40 in France gained 0.2 percent, to 5,631.08.

Markets in the United States, which were closed yesterday for the holiday, will reopen today.

Yesterday was a busy day for merger activity, with General Electric agreeing to buy the aerospace business of the Smiths Group of Britain for $4.8 billion in cash. Smiths also said it will return $2.1 billion to shareholders, sending its shares up 11.1 percent, to close at 1,094.5 pence ($21.44) in trading in London.

In Norway, the digital video company Tandberg Television said it had agreed to be bought by the Arris Group in a deal worth about $1.2 billion. Shares of Tandberg soared 15 percent, to 99 krona ($15.37) in Oslo trading.
395 2007-01-16 And yet paradoxically, the nominated films this year are almost prohibitively long; all but “The Queen” are close to two hours or even longer. Martin Scorsese’s “Departed” is a half-hour longer than “Taxi Driver.” “Babel” is almost as long at two hours and 22 minutes.

It’s even sometimes true on television. Serialized shows like “24” and “Heroes” are the endurance tests of the small screen — the denouement is stretched out over an entire season. (Or more, in the case of “Lost.”) That polarization was all too obvious last night: while NBC showed the Golden Globe awards, Fox was showing Part 2 of the four-hour premiere of “24.”

It’s not the rule of the marketplace: studios have no stake in making longer films. It’s director-driven defiance and proof of Newton’s Third Law of show business: Every action has an equal and opposite reaction. (That’s Olivia Newton-John, of course.)

The first law is that every winner must thank the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, and the second is that reaction shots must pan as often as possible to Jack Nicholson in the audience, preferably when he is wearing sunglasses and has his head thrown back and mouth open. (The actor is to American awards shows what pretty girls in soccer stadium stands are to Italian cameramen.)

Losers trying to look happy as someone else’s name is called are always a good camera bet, though Botox has ruined some of the fun by freezing most of the facial expressions in the room.

The night is a forced march for on-screen talent, and actors are corralled under lights and behind bottles of Champagne and chardonnay. They use body language, sometimes subtle (Angelina Jolie, a Greek goddess in gray, clung to Brad Pitt as if she were a perplexed member of a foreign royal family), sometimes less so. One of the most daring décolletés of the evening was worn by the middle-aged actress Helen Mirren.

A reality contest gives ordinary people a chance to act like stars; the wine-fueled Golden Globe awards give viewers a peek at stars acting like ordinary people. Both are platforms for extreme displays: triumph and humiliation, glamour and career-stunting glitch. Though some people aim for the unexciting middle.

Eddie Murphy was supposed to be making a comeback, but he mostly seemed underwhelmed and ready to leave. He accepted his best supporting award by thanking one of the makers of “Dreamgirls,” the entertainment mogul David Geffen, for “convincing me to work for free.” Mr. Murphy summed up the winning of the award as “a nice moment.”

When America Ferrera won for best actress in a television comedy, she was more animated, tearfully saying that the ABC series “Ugly Betty” was “truly bringing a new face to television.” And that brought tears to the eyes of even some of the oldest, best-preserved faces in the business.
396 2007-01-16 That, some may say, is because it is intended as a day of reflection. But then, so are many of our other national holidays — created to honor our war dead, reaffirm our founding principles or give thanks for what we have. Yet almost every major holiday, be it Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day — not to mention the granddaddy of all commercial days, the secularized Christmas — is regarded by many Americans as mainly an opportunity to shop.

How is it that King Day has escaped the clutches of commerce?

Part of the answer may simply be that the holiday is young. It has been observed at the federal level only since 1986. Also, Dr. King remains a vivid figure in the minds of Americans who were more than young children when he was assassinated in 1968. Indeed, not until early spring will he have been dead longer than he was alive: 39 years and 80 days.

“As opposed to other holidays, it commemorates someone who died a violent death in living memory,” said Marc E. Babej, a partner at Reason Inc. in New York, a marketing strategy firm. “To commercialize it would offend a lot of people, and rightly so.”

Others say that the holiday is a tribute not only to the man but also to the civil rights movement. “The honoring of him is the honoring of an effort that is still a work in progress,” said Thomas Ordahl, a partner at Group 1066, a corporate identity consultant in New York. “By having a sale, you’re impugning the entire movement.” African-Americans, in particular, may feel that “the sanctity of the day” has been violated, he said.

On a less lofty level, another factor may be at work: King Day closely follows the Christmas and New Year shopping frenzy. By mid-January, retailers “are probably a little fatigued,” said Michael Megalli, another partner at Group 1066. “Martin Luther King,” Mr. Megalli said, “would be happy, I think, that he’s been shielded from all the commercialization.”

HE is not, however, shielded from the politics.

As usual, the governor, the mayor and other leading officials spoke yesterday at the city’s premier King Day event, a commemoration held at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. As usual, they offered words of praise for Dr. King and his legacy. But also as usual, they devoted many more words to themselves — to their own records and their plans for education, housing, criminal justice and other areas deemed of special concern to the largely African-American audience.

Then, as usual, these officials went to Harlem to speak or to be seen at the headquarters of the Rev. Al Sharpton, who regards homage to him on King Day as his seigniorage.

As usual, too, businesspeople knew enough to give the King name a rest. Whether this will always be the case is another matter.

The marketing experts say that 50 or more years from now, when the generations that remember Dr. King are gone, commerce may well infect King Day as it has other national holidays.

“Hopefully in 50 years, the civil rights movement will have accomplished its purpose,” Mr. Ordahl said.

Fair enough. Still, would anyone be shocked if, one day in the far future, a company sells its mattresses as perfect for a good night’s sleep, using as its slogan “I have a dream”?
397 2007-01-16 The promise may not outlast their political honeymoon, but Democratic Congressional leaders say they are committed to governing from the center, and not just on bread-and-butter issues like raising the minimum wage or increasing aid for education....
398 2007-01-16 With concerns about global warming and energy security on the rise, countries the world over are taking a new look at nuclear energy. Some are building new reactors as fast as they can.     They are coming from everywhere in Australia; shirt-sleev...
399 2007-01-16 Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia, lists more than five dozen personalities whose obituaries were published prematurely. Someone may want to add Netflix to that list.      The impending death of the company, with its online system for renting DVD...
400 2007-01-16 In an autobiography to be published this spring, Gary Sheffield, a player known for voicing his displeasure, describes his relationship with Barry Bonds, his link to the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative steroid distribution case and his three turb...
401 2007-01-16 One of the more welcome aspects of Martin Luther King's Birthday was the way it went unmentioned yesterday in some places. Those places are called stores.     Oh, they had their holiday bargains, all right, trumpeted in advertisements as ''weekend...
402 2007-01-16 Hong Kong and Shanghai are locked in an increasingly public struggle to become China's main financial center as a top-level committee in the capital, Beijing, prepares to meet later this month to map out a national financial regulatory strategy.  ...
403 2007-01-16 The word is that, with the art industry so flush, nonprofit alternative spaces are thriving. And why shouldn't they be? Some of them now look all but indistinguishable from commercial galleries.      White Columns in Chelsea recently devoted its s...
404 2007-01-16 It's O.K. to be teary and sincere if you're new, like Jennifer Hudson of ''Dreamgirls,'' but at the Golden Globe awards, it's better to be fast and mean.      When Prince, the artist still known for being short, didn't show up in time to accept hi...
405 2007-01-16 For the past five years, the New England Patriots have been the N.F.L.'s best team and its moral authority.     They are the rare group that won three Super Bowls and still complained regularly about a lack of respect. They admonished opposing pla...
406 2007-01-16 Isabel Bayrakdarian, the soprano, and Russell Braun, the baritone, were to have shared a recital on Sunday afternoon at the Morgan Library & Museum. Both singers are Canadian, as are the pianists they work with, and at the last minute, visa proble...
407 2007-01-16 Children of women with less than a high school education are more likely to have received timely childhood vaccinations than the children of college graduates, according to a new study.      The paper, published online Dec. 28, will appear in the ...
408 2007-01-17 In the history of accidents, the March 2005 explosion at BP's Texas City, Tex., oil refinery might have been another Exxon Valdez - a catastrophe that changed the way we perceive and regulate the industry. But the BP disaster hasn't captured the p...
409 2007-01-17 Cash-strapped public school districts and other local governments are increasingly making bets on arcane financial derivatives, often in hopes of quickly raising needed funds. But sometimes, as Bloomberg News recounts, those bets go awry. The scho...
410 2007-01-17 Testing anti-missile systems for eventual use on passenger jets......
411 2007-01-17 In an unusual tale of a real-estate acquisition, Yum Brands, the fast-food conglomerate, wanted to buy property for a Taco Bell in Norfolk, Va., and the owner offered to give it away. On one condition. The real estate department of Yum Brands made...
412 2007-01-17 Gazprom's banking unit has set up an emissions trading venture with Dresdner Bank to take advantage of the growing market for securities linked to greenhouse-gas quotas under the Kyoto Protocol, the companies said Tuesday. The company, Carbon Trad...
413 2007-01-17 The Chinese search engine Baidu.com and EMI Music are teaming up in an Internet venture that will let users listen to streaming music free, adding to Baidu's growing entertainment business. Under the terms of the the venture, announced Tuesday, EM...
414 2007-01-17 Going head-to-head with Microsoft is a risky business strategy, but investors in a mail server technology developer, PostPath are confident enough to give the company an additional $15 million. The Series C financing for PostPath closed in late De...
415 2007-01-17 The EMI Group, which lost a copyright infringement lawsuit against Baidu.com, a Chinese Internet search site, will drop its appeal of the case and work with the company to win advertising by offering free online samples of its music. Baidu, based in Beijing, will sell online ads for a section of its Web site featuring streaming samples of EMI’s Chinese-language music, the company said. EMI and Baidu will share the ad revenue, they said, without providing details. EMI is planning to drop out of an infringement lawsuit brought against Baidu by record companies on claims the Web site violated copyright by offering links to illegally copied music on nonaffiliated sites.
416 2007-01-17 The Financial Accounting Standards Board, increasingly concerned about flaws in the pension standards, is now in the process of writing new rules aimed at ending some of the gimmickry and showing much more clearly whether companies can really afford the benefits they have promised their workers.

Along with these changes, Mr. Iwry said he was also seeing a broad shift in attitude among the thousands of companies that offer their workers traditional pensions. In the past, he said, such companies were generally loath to shut their pension plans, and they did so only when their survival hung in the balance.

“But that taboo has to some degree been broken,” he said. Today, even healthy companies are sometimes freezing their pension plans, he said. They are making their decisions on the basis of what their competitors are doing, and “unfortunately traditional pensions over all are in decline,” he said.

I.B.M. itself makes a good example. In January 2006, it announced plans to freeze the pension plan that gave rise to the lawsuit, citing the need to keep its compensation costs on par with the rest of its industry. When a company freezes a pension plan, its workers keep the benefits they have earned until that date, but they no longer build bigger benefits with each new year of service. When the freeze goes into effect, in 2008, workers at I.B.M. will get 401(k) benefits instead. The company has not reported any difficulty recruiting new workers as a result.

Typically, the people who most value a pension plans are not new hires, but the workers nearing retirement. This is why changes in pension plans so often draw complaints about age discrimination.

The type of pension plan at the heart of the I.B.M. lawsuit is known as a cash balance plan. The plans became widespread in the 1990s when many pension plans were showing surplus assets. The cash balance design gave companies a way to reduce their pension liability to older employees, who in traditional plans earned the biggest part of their benefits in their later years. In the new design, liabilities grow at a steady rate over the years, but often do not reach the heights of the defined-benefit plans they have replaced.

Moreover, many companies with cash balance plans found that when they reduced their pension liability, the accounting rules gave them a boost to their bottom line.

Such pensions have given rise to lawsuits at a number of companies, but the I.B.M. case was the most closely watched because of the company’s size, the large amount of money at stake, and the initial victory the employees had won at the federal trial court level, in 2003.

In that trial, the federal judge not only found I.B.M.’s pension changes illegal, but he reasoned that cash balance plans inherently discriminated on the basis of age — no matter which company put them in place.

This opinion, which angered many employers, was overturned by an appellate panel in Chicago that said that terms of the plan were “age neutral.” The I.B.M. plaintiffs had hoped to persuade the Supreme Court to reverse that decision.

“For I.B.M., for I.B.M.’s employees and for I.B.M.’s retirees, this sort of closes a book and produces certainty,” said Dallas L. Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonpartisan research center in Washington.

But Mr. Salisbury said the I.B.M. case offered no one-size-fits-all answers. He pointed to a number of other lawsuits involving cash balance pension plans in other parts of the country, and said the plaintiffs in those cases were often disputing other issues or using different legal arguments and strategies.

In the Second Circuit, which covers New York State, Connecticut and Vermont, several lawsuits are still pending at the trial court level. Some courts have issued rulings that favor the employers, while some seem to favor the employees.

“Others will have to wait and see what happens with court cases that haven’t been decided yet, or even to see if someone still sues them,” Mr. Salisbury said.

For companies wondering whether they should set up cash balance pension plans, the Pension Protection Act — the far-reaching package of pension law amendments signed by President Bush last summer — offers some legal certainty. The act states that companies that convert to cash balance plans after June 30, 2005, cannot be held liable for age discrimination as long as they pass certain basic tests. The tests are intended to protect older workers from the benefit erosion that occurs when employers freeze more senior workers’ pension accruals for a period of time as the new plan goes into effect. This erosion is known among pension specialists as “wearaway.”

After the Pension Protection Act became law, the Internal Revenue Service began writing the regulations needed to administer it. The I.R.S. also announced in December that it was ending its longstanding moratorium on approvals of pension conversions to the cash-balance format. The I.R.S. normally helps companies make sure any changes in their pension plans are legal.

In 1999, amid Congressional hearings and suits on cash balance pensions, the I.R.S. stopped issuing those letters when companies adopted the cash balance design. That has compounded the uncertainty for the roughly 1,200 companies that adopted such plans from 1999 to 2005.
417 2007-01-17 ALBANY, Jan. 16—Several major labor unions are rallying around the Republican candidate for an open State Senate seat in Nassau County, in a sign of the obstacles that labor could present for Gov. Eliot Spitzer’s efforts to capture the seat for Democrats next month.

After Democrats swept all of the top state posts in the November election, the Senate was left as the Republican Party’s last statewide power base and one seen by some labor leaders as a potential ally against budget cuts that the new governor has been promising to deliver.

Mr. Spitzer has been campaigning actively for the Democratic candidate, Craig M. Johnson, a Nassau County legislator. The seat became open after Mr. Spitzer appointed Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, a Republican, to be his top public safety adviser. That move set off a fierce political battle for Mr. Balboni’s seat, since Democrats need to pick up just three seats to gain control of the Senate.

On Tuesday, 1199 United Healthcare Workers East became the latest union to endorse the Republican candidate, Maureen O’Connell, a county clerk and former assemblywoman and a former nurse.

“Ms. O’Connell knows firsthand the daily struggles health care workers face to provide the highest quality of patient care,” Dennis Rivera, the president of 1199, said in a statement. “During these troubled times for the future of the New York state health care industry, we need a registered nurse with the experience and know-how to navigate Albany’s complicated Medicaid system,” he added.
418 2007-01-17 The report was released after the market’s close yesterday, but investors reacted strongly to the forecast of a lower profit margin, sending shares of Intel down 88 cents, or nearly 4 percent, in after-hours trading. Earlier in the day, Intel shares rose 17 cents, to close at $22.30 in regular trading.

Intel’s net income for the fourth quarter was $1.5 billion, or 26 cents a share, including the cost associated with stock option expenses. In last year’s fourth quarter, the last quarter in which it expensed stock options, Intel posted net income of $2.45 billion, or 40 cents a share.

The company’s revenue declined 5 percent, to $9.69 billion, from $10.2 billion last year, at the top of the range of $9.1 billion to $9.7 billion the company had forecast.

Analysts were expecting earnings of 25 cents a share on $9.44 billion in revenue, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Financial.

For 2006, Intel, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., posted revenue of $35.4 billion, while its net income was $5 billion, or 86 cents a share.

Closing what he called “a very tough pricing year,” Andy D. Bryant, Intel’s chief financial officer, indicated that Intel would continue to price aggressively this year. “We’re going to have to fight to win orders,” Mr. Bryant said in a conference call with analysts.

The brightest spot for Intel was that it sold record numbers of its highest-priced microprocessors, those used in computer servers. Sales of those chips helped drive up Intel’s average selling price during a period in which Intel was continuing to cut prices on older products.

Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s chief executive, described 2006 as a unique year in which the company introduced 40 new products. “We’ve never had that broad a base of new products all at once,” Mr. Otellini said in the conference call.

Intel’s report of higher selling prices on server chips was in stark contrast to news from A.M.D. last week. That company, which is scheduled to issue its earnings report on Jan. 23, warned last week that its fourth-quarter revenue would miss Wall Street forecasts because of lower unit prices.

A.M.D., based in Sunnyvale, Calif., said that it expected fourth-quarter revenue to be about $1.37 billion, or only about 3 percent above the third-quarter level. The news sent shares of A.M.D down $1.92, to $18.26, on Friday. Yesterday, A.M.D. shares declined 23 cents, or about 1 percent, in after-hours trading, after declining 13 cents, to close at $18.13, during the regular session.

Intel said it was also facing the high cost of its transition to a major new manufacturing process, a transition that occurs roughly every two years. Mr. Bryant said the bulk of the costs of the manufacturing changes would occur in the first half of 2007.

Looking ahead, Intel said first-quarter revenue would be $8.7 billion to $9.3 billion, in line with analysts’ forecast of $8.93 billion. Mr. Bryant declined to provide a full-year forecast.

In September, the company announced a major revamping, including the elimination of 10,500 positions. Intel ended the fourth quarter with 94,100 employees, down more than 6,000 from the second quarter. Costs associated with layoffs decreased earnings by about 1.5 cents a share in the fourth quarter, the company said.
419 2007-01-17 The team sold out every game and built its season-ticket base to 65,800. The team signed national sponsors like Coca-Cola, Anheuser-Busch, Chevrolet, Coors and Alltel to lengthy deals as a hoped-for financial bridge to a time when the city’s and region’s struggling companies are healthier.

“As much as people’s hearts are in the right place, it’s hard to justify the cost of sponsorships,” said Frank Vuono, a partner in 16W Marketing in Rutherford, N.J., which the league hired to help rebuild the Saints’ business.

Still, about a quarter of the stadium’s luxury suites are unoccupied (they are all in various stages of construction), and naming rights to the Superdome are unsold.

“We’re financially viable,” said Dennis Lauscha, the team’s chief financial officer. “We have two big problems, a facility problem and a market problem. If you fix both, you’ll have strong viability.”

The Saints face formidable obstacles. Not the least is whether local and state governments, with enormous rebuilding priorities, can, or should, help finance a new stadium or let Benson move elsewhere. After Katrina struck, Benson was reportedly interested in moving the team to San Antonio, where it played several home games during the 2005 season.

That talk cooled with the renovation of the Superdome, but the Saints’ lease has only four years to go. At its end will come the last of 10 years’ worth of subsidies totaling $186.5 million. This year, the Saints are scheduled to be paid about $20 million.

“We hope to sit down with the team and discuss an extension beyond 2010, and that would include inducement payments,” said Larry Roedel, counsel to the Louisiana Sports and Exposition District, a state-appointed commission that oversees the Superdome and other facilities. “I don’t know if they’ll want more than what they’re getting.”

But some sports marketing experts said it was unlikely the Saints would ever earn enough in New Orleans to satisfy the Benson family, which could earn much more by playing in a larger, more stable and wealthier market.

New Orleans’s population has fallen to an estimated 230,000, and Nielsen Media Research has said that the area’s market ranking has plunged to 54th from 43rd.

A widely reported spate of murders has made safety a concern, and much of New Orleans is in ruins, waiting to be rebuilt or razed.

Marc Ganis, whose Chicago-based sports consulting company has worked with several N.F.L. teams, said the Saints would need larger subsidies than they now receive. He said the level of government support might depend on whether the team could truly capitalize on its 2006 renaissance or whether the sellouts and the addition of new sponsors were one-time, post-Katrina upticks.

“Pre-Katrina, the market was tough at best,” Ganis said.

“Post-Katrina, it’s even worse for business, but the Saints are more important than they were before, because they enliven the spirit of the community.”

Michael Ozanian, a Forbes editor who helped prepare the valuations, said he could envision a long-term future for the Saints in New Orleans only if the area around the Superdome underwent renewal.

“I think if they get to the Super Bowl, you’ll see a lot of talk of rebirth, but the numbers just aren’t there, in terms of people living there and in terms of the business there,” Ozanian said. “It’s a real problem for the N.F.L.”

After Katrina, the league’s desire to see the Saints return to New Orleans became a priority, leading to its contribution of $15 million to $20 million to the fast-paced overhaul of the Superdome.

The N.F.L. has not set a timeline to evaluate the Saints’ long-term prospects for survival. For now, league officials have said they have done enough financially.

“We want the Saints to succeed in New Orleans, but the business community, especially, has to step up, and continue to support the team,” said Joe Browne, an executive vice president of the league. He said the N.F.L. would not offer subsidies because, “We already have the best revenue-sharing plan in sports and that helps teams like the Saints in a small market.”

But Mark Rosentraub, dean of the Maxine Goodman Levin College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University, said the league had to provide subsidies to shore up the Saints or they would be “dead in New Orleans.”

“If I were advising N.F.L. owners,” Rosentraub said, “I’d say, ‘You have two choices: pull the team out or guarantee revenues to the owner.’ ”
420 2007-01-17 City officials, who briefed reporters about the proposals on the condition of anonymity, declined to discuss the cuts in detail.

But, they said, the city was flush enough to set aside $750 million for the property tax cut, at least for the fiscal year beginning in July, which would translate into an average overall reduction of 5 percent. The average yearly tax bill for a condominium owner is $6,449, so a 5 percent cut would translate to $322 annually. The average tax bill on a house is $3,098, and a 5 percent cut would save $160.

The officials cautioned that they could not yet say precisely what a $750 million cut would mean for different types of properties because single-family homes and condominium and co-op apartments are taxed at different rates through a complex formula whose variables have not yet been set for the next year.

Officials did say that they took into account the new tentative assessment roll announced last week, which shows property values on the rise. Mr. Bloomberg plans to commit to only one year on the property tax break because, one aide said, “he’s comfortable that the city can afford the $750 million reduction or cut, but not confident that he can guarantee it on an ongoing basis.”

Although the officials would not say how large the budget windfall is or describe its source in detail, in recent years the city has benefited from taxes on both the enormous volume and size of real estate transactions and from huge profits on Wall Street.

Last week, city officials said that the value of all city properties increased 19 percent last year, a sharp rise at a time when many real estate markets were cooling or declining.

In announcing surpluses in the past, Mr. Bloomberg has often tamped down expectations about the health of the city’s finances, and has been accused by some budget experts outside his administration of using revenue estimates that were too low as a tactic to limit spending.

The rest of Mr. Bloomberg’s tax cut proposals would require state approval, aides said.

The mayor has already begun seeking an extension of the popular $400-a-year property tax rebate for the owners of one-, two- and three-family homes and co-op and condominium apartments through 2009. That rebate started in 2004, but the annual program will end if the state does not reauthorize it.

Bloomberg administration officials said that reducing the property tax rate was needed to reauthorize those rebates, since when Albany originally granted permission for them, lawmakers required the city to lower its overall tax rate in order to extend the rebate program past 2006.

Under the mayor’s sales tax proposal, an existing exemption from the 4 percent city sales tax for clothing and footwear under $110 would be extended to purchases above that amount. The city cannot, however, expand the parallel exemption for clothing items under $110 from state sales tax and a Metropolitan Transportation Authority sales tax surcharge to purchases above that amount. So those items would still be subject to the state and M.T.A. tax, a combined 4.375 percent, rather than the current 8.375 percent city, state and M.T.A. tax.

Such a change would make clothing sellers in the five boroughs more competitive with those in New Jersey, where all clothing is exempt from the sales tax. In Connecticut, clothing under $50 is exempt from the state’s 6 percent sales tax.

Finally, Mr. Bloomberg is proposing changes to business taxes that would bring city policy more in line with federal and state provisions, officials said. Those include increasing deductions, creating credits and simplifying filing requirements for unincorporated business and some corporations, with an eye toward helping small-business owners.
421 2007-01-17 The fire was still burning last night, but officials said Interstate 65 had been reopened.

The chemical cyclohexane, which is a highly flammable chemical and an eye and skin irritant, may have fueled the fire, said Maj. Lisa Rudzinski of the state police.

At least one train car also contained the chemical butadiene, which is hazardous if inhaled, but it was not clear whether that car had ruptured, Major Rudzinski said.

A CSX spokesman, Gary Sease, said one train car contained ethyl methyl ketone, a flammable solvent, two others contained maleic anhydride, a corrosive material used to make resins, and two others carried alcohol. Mr. Sease said the railroad was obligated to carry hazardous substances for its customers.

“Knowing the sensitivity and safety concerns around hazardous materials, we work very hard to make sure that those hazardous materials are transported safely,” he said.

Fifteen members of the National Guard were dispatched to help in detecting chemicals and other hazardous materials, Major Rudzinski said.

The National Transportation Safety Board said it was sending investigators, and its chairman, Mark V. Rosenker, to the scene.

The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which is part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, sent an environmental health scientist to Brooks to assess public health risks, said an agency spokesman, John Florence.

Bullitt County school officials moved Brooks Elementary School to another school because of a concern that the fire might snarl bus routes, not because of danger to the children, said a school spokesman, John Roberts.

Jack Roberts, administrator of the private Micah Christian Academy, said that he could see smoke from the wreck site, which he estimated to be about two miles away, and that the smoke left an unpleasant burning sensation in the mouth. He closed the school as a precaution.

“They say that it’s not dangerous, other than maybe to folks who have breathing problems, but we’re close enough to where we feel like it’s necessary that we close,” Mr. Roberts said.

Next month, the Department of Homeland Security will hold public hearings on its proposal to require railroads to continuously track tanker cars carrying chemicals that are “toxic inhalation hazards,” and bar them from leaving the cars parked or unattended for long periods.

Coincidentally, the Federal Railroad Administration announced yesterday that it was cooperating with Dow Chemical Company, the Union Pacific Railroad and the Union Tank Car Company to develop a “next generation” rail tank car. The car would be designed to resist puncture in accidents or terrorist attacks.

Joseph H. Boardman, the agency administrator, said he hoped to issue a final rule for the cars early next year. Mr. Boardman would not say when current cars would be replaced, but he said cars used for the most hazardous materials would be replaced first.
422 2007-01-17 ALBANY, Jan. 16 — It sounds logical enough: New York State should be required to pass balanced budgets. The budget should not include blank checks to state officials, in the form of giant lump sums to be divvied up later in secret. And lawmakers should have to explain the fiscal impact of the changes they make to the budget.

It has not been standard practice in Albany, though. So when Gov. Eliot Spitzer and the leaders of the Legislature announced Tuesday that they had agreed to legislation to do those things and more, they described them as “sweeping reforms” for the state’s budget process.

“It will ensure both timeliness, and that the budget is balanced,” Governor Spitzer said, standing with Legislative leaders of both parties. “It will ensure transparency, which, above all, is what we’ve been aspiring for, and it will address many of the issues that for years have seemed to be beyond the reach of bipartisan agreement.”

Under the agreement, each budget will no longer contain a lump sum of $200 million to be divided up later by the governor and lawmakers as “member items,” allowing lawmakers to finance pet projects in their districts. Lawmakers agreed to list each member item in the budget — making it public, and subject to the governor’s line-item veto. It essentially returns the process to what it was until the late 1990s.

The agreement also calls for the governor and the Legislature to defer to the state comptroller when they cannot agree on how much revenue the state can expect to collect, and therefore how much will be available for spending, by March 1 — a sticking point that often held up state budgets in the past. It also requires the governor to explain in plain language the budget’s impact on local governments; calls for the Legislature to use conference committees to try to resolve its differences, and increases the state’s “rainy-day fund” to cushion future fiscal downturns.
423 2007-01-17 In their Supreme Court appeal, Didden v. Village of Port Chester, No. 06-652, Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna were represented by the Institute for Justice, a public interest law firm in Arlington, Va., that litigated on behalf of the property owners in the 2005 Supreme Court case and that has organized a national campaign against what it calls eminent domain abuse.

Partly in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in that case, Kelo v. City of New London, 34 states have adopted measures limiting the use of eminent domain. The Institute for Justice publicized the Port Chester case widely and looked to it as an opportunity for the court to clarify “that Kelo did not suddenly turn every redevelopment area in the United States into a Constitution-free zone,” as Dana Berliner, a senior attorney with the institute, said when the appeal was filed in November.

“The court will have to review an eminent domain case sometime soon,” Ms. Berliner said on Tuesday.

The vote in the Kelo case was 5 to 4. The recent changes at the court are not likely to have an impact, however, because both Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, the two justices who have since been succeeded, were among the dissenters.

Even if there was interest on the court in revisiting the issue, the justices might have seen the Port Chester case as a poor vehicle for doing so, because the lower courts based their dismissal on the property owner’s failure to file his lawsuit within the three-year statute of limitations. The suit should have been filed within three years of the village’s July 1999 adoption of the redevelopment plan, the courts ruled, rejecting Mr. Didden’s argument that the clock did not start running until late 2003, when the village announced that it would take his property.

“I’m so disillusioned with the whole court system at this point,” Mr. Didden said on Tuesday.

Mark S. Tulis, special counsel to the village, said in an interview that the village had had to choose between condemning Mr. Didden’s property or breaching its 1999 contract with the developer. “Either way,” Mr. Tulis said, “we knew there was no way both sides would be happy.”

The amount that Port Chester has to compensate Mr. Didden is the subject of a separate lawsuit.

In other action on Tuesday, the court declined to hear a California utility company’s appeal of a ruling that required administrative review of the potential environmental impact of a terrorist attack on the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant in San Luis Obispo.

The utility, Pacific Gas and Electric, is seeking a 20-year license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to build and operate a spent-fuel storage installation there. Responding to a lawsuit brought by a local antinuclear group, San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that before granting the license, the nuclear agency had to take account of the potential environmental risk of terrorism.

The utility’s appeal, Pacific Gas and Electric v. San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace, No. 06-466, argued that the ruling was a misinterpretation of federal environmental law that would place unnecessary burdens on license applicants.

The government itself did not file a Supreme Court appeal, however. Solicitor General Paul D. Clement told the court in his brief that while the decision was incorrect and potentially “disruptive,” it was too soon to know how disruptive it would prove to be in practice. While the government would support the utility if the justices nonetheless wanted to accept the case, the brief said, the appeal “does not clearly satisfy the court’s criteria” for taking up appeals and should be denied.
424 2007-01-17 Of all the hassles at the airport in this age of heightened security, perhaps the most annoying is the requirement to take off your shoes to send them through the X-ray screener. That burden will be lifted at some airports shortly — for those willing to pay about $100 a year for the privilege.

The Transportation Security Administration has recently approved a new device that will scan your shoes while you are still wearing them. It uses quadrupole resonance technology, similar to a medical M.R.I., to determine whether explosives or weapons might be hidden in your shoes. It is the first important new technology to emerge from the for-profit registered traveler programs.

The hitch is that, for now, you have to pay to join a program in which private companies pledge to move you through the security lines a bit faster if you submit to a government background check in advance and supply biometric data — like a thumbprint or iris scan — that can be used to identify you at the airport.

The lead company in the field, founded by Steven Brill, operates the registered traveler lanes in Orlando, Fla., where use of the shoe scanner started yesterday, and plans to open lanes at four more airports in coming weeks. That will include Kennedy Airport, where one lane opened yesterday but with its shoe scanner not yet operational.

The scanner was developed for Mr. Brill’s company by G.E. Security, a subsidiary of General Electric. It is part of a kiosk that also includes a device to scan fingertips for traces of chemicals that might indicate recent contact with explosives. That technology, if approved by the federal government, could make it possible for travelers to be X-rayed for hidden explosives without first having to take off their coats. Another company is exploring backscatter X-ray technology that can see through clothing to detect hidden objects, although that carries privacy implications. Also down the road is a technology to scan laptops without removing them from their cases.

These technology advances could become the major contribution of registered traveler programs, which otherwise simply offer those willing to pay an annual fee a designated fast lane to a set of the airport’s standard metal detectors and X-ray scanners. The kiosks cost a hefty $150,000, probably too much for the government to swallow. But G.E. would surely relish a broad market, and volume production would presumably reduce the price. Someday these technologies may trickle down to us all, and the registered traveler companies will have to keep finding new devices to stay ahead.
425 2007-01-17 The United States freestyle team competing in this week’s matches is made up of some members of USA Wrestling’s world team and national champions. Among those competing are Mike Zadick, a world silver medalist last year and a former wrestler for the University of Iowa; and Andy Hrovat, a member of the 2005 world team who competed for the University of Michigan.

Terry Brands, the coach, is a two-time world champion and won a bronze medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. The United States delegation is made up of 14 athletes and 7 officials.

The tournament will bring together teams from Iran and several other nations, mostly from Central Asia.

Despite the courteous welcome, the Iranian government was not portraying the United States’ visit as an attempt to bridge the differences between the countries.

The Iranian news media gave low-key coverage of the wrestlers Tuesday; government-run newspapers and radio and television outlets mentioned their arrival, but had no commentary. The visit came on the same day a second United States aircraft carrier was heading for the Persian Gulf in what Cmdr. Kevin Aandahl of the Navy’s Fifth Fleet said “demonstrates our resolve to do what we can to bring security and stability to the region.”

Bandar Abbas lies on the northern side of the Strait of Hormuz, the entrance to the Gulf. The strait is patrolled by United States warships, which can be seen from the city.

In 1998, a wrestling team became the first group of United States athletes to visit Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution; it participated in the same Persian Gulf Cup. Their arrival was eagerly awaited by the public, and in that 1998 tournament, some 12,000 fans in Tehran cheered as a United States wrestler waved the Iranian flag after winning a silver medal.

The United States cut off diplomatic ties during the hostage crisis after the 1979 revolution, in which the United States-backed shah was overthrown. Since the revolution, Iran’s hard-liners have been unwavering in their opposition to the United States, which they call the Great Satan.

United States teams participated in Iranian wrestling tournaments from 1998 to 2004, and Iran sent teams to various sports competitions in the United States.

But the sports link began to sour even before Ahmadinejad came to power, particularly after President Bush branded Iran part of the “axis of evil” in 2002 in response to the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. Besides the 2003 Iranian boycott of the New York wrestling matches, Iranian wrestlers and fencers also refused to participate in tournaments in 2004 to protest United States troops who were fighting Shiite militiamen in Shiite holy cities in Iraq.

Mahmoud Khatami, the reformist president who preceded Ahmadinejad, encouraged cultural and sports exchanges, but his “wrestling diplomacy” failed to spark a wider cooperation similar to the United States’ “ping-pong diplomacy” with China before President Nixon’s visit to Beijing in 1972.

The hard-liners pushed the reformists out of parliament even before Khatami was forced to leave office because of term limits. Ahmadinejad was elected with strong support of the hard-liners in 2005.

The most recent prominent visit by Americans to Iran was hardly a boost to relations: the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke and several others attended a conference in December sponsored by Ahmadinejad’s government that questioned whether the Holocaust took place.
426 2007-01-17 Yum Brands, the fast-food conglomerate, wanted to buy property for a Taco Bell in Norfolk, Va., on the site of a former appliance store.

But the identity of the seller turned out to be an unpleasant surprise.

The real estate department of Yum Brands made a $1 million offer this month for property on the corner of Monticello Avenue and 20th Street, on the fringes of downtown Norfolk. Unbeknownst to Yum, the property was owned by the PETA Foundation, a nonprofit group that provides support services for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, known as PETA.

The animal rights group has been engaged in a campaign against KFC, the Kentucky Fried Chicken chain owned by Yum Brands. The campaign, called Kentucky Fried Cruelty, has sought to force the chain to adopt more stringent animal welfare guidelines.

In the four years the campaign has been conducted, PETA says its members have staged thousands of protests outside of KFC restaurants, often dressed in chicken costumes covered with blood, and the organization has also used celebrities like the “Baywatch” star Pamela Anderson, the Dalai Lama and the Beastie Boys, to speak out against KFC.

Given that background, it is not surprising that PETA officials relished the offer from Yum Brands and saw it as an opportunity to further their campaign. Yesterday, in a letter addressed to the Yum real estate manager, Clint Langley, PETA made a counteroffer.

“PETA would be willing to give Yum this warehouse — free and clear — if KFC requires its chicken suppliers to adopt the recommendations made by members of its own animal Welfare Advisory Council on March 11, 2005. A copy of these recommendations is enclosed for your reference, ” PETA said in its letter.
427 2007-01-17 Mr. Naimi, who has steered oil markets with assurance since the late 1990s, seemed confident that prices would not tumble much further as colder weather sets in across the United States. His comments seemed intended to prompt other OPEC members to fulfill their pledges and actually reduce production.

“We took measures in October in Doha and measures in Abuja, and I believe these measures are working well,” Mr. Naimi told reporters while attending an energy conference in New Delhi, referring to the group’s last two meetings in Qatar and Nigeria. “Do not panic. Actually, there is no reason for a meeting.”

Hedge funds and other investors have been selling oil contracts in recent months, testing OPEC’s resolve at a time of slowing demand, and doubting the cartel’s ability to set a floor on prices.

Still, some analysts caution that the market would bounce back because of previous OPEC policies to tighten supplies.

“The reaction signals well in our view the deepness of the bearish sentiment, with markets more concerned about the lack of further cuts rather than about emerging evidence of actual market tightness,” according to a note by analysts at Barclays Capital.

The 12 members of OPEC account for 40 percent of the world’s crude oil exports. Angola, which was admitted in December, and Iraq, because of its turmoil, do not adhere to the cartel’s production quota system.

OPEC members agreed in October to cut overall production by 4 percent, and again in December by an additional 2 percent, to a new ceiling of 25.8 million barrels a day starting Feb. 1. But compliance with the first cut has been uneven.

According to Bloomberg data, the 10 members that adhere to output quotas pumped 385,000 barrels a day more than their agreed-upon goals in December. Nigeria and Venezuela were the biggest violators, exceeding their targets by a total of 220,000 barrels. Only Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, seems to be actually producing below its quota level of 8.71 million barrels a day.

On Monday, Rafael Ramírez, the oil minister of Venezuela, OPEC’s fourth-largest supplier, said he would press for additional production cuts of 500,000 barrels a day to bolster sagging prices. The idea was endorsed by Algeria’s minister, Chakib Khelil, according to the country’s state-run news agency, Algérie Presse Service.

Adam E. Sieminski, the chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank, said Saudi Arabia wanted other OPEC members to conform to their quotas before talking about lowering the production ceiling again.

“The Saudi view is that the first thing OPEC needs to do is to implement the two cuts they agreed to,” Mr. Sieminski said. “If OPEC were to have an emergency meeting now, there would be a temptation on the part of some members to renege on their earlier agreements.”
428 2007-01-17 The one crucial assumption behind everything President Bush proposed on Iraq last week was that Washington would have the wholehearted support of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. None of Mr. Bush’s ideas — his plan to send more American soldiers to fight alongside Iraqi units in Baghdad, his program for jump-starting the Iraqi economy, his hope of reconciling rival sectarian communities and heading off civil war — can possibly succeed without the full cooperation of the Iraqi government.

Yet in the days following Mr. Bush’s address, as in the days before, Mr. Maliki has demonstrated how far his own goals diverge from America’s best interests or any reasonable path for containing Iraq’s civil war. Consider, for example, Mr. Maliki’s designation of Lt. Gen. Aboud Qanbar — a Shiite officer known for his combative resistance to American tutelage — to be the overall military commander of the new Baghdad security drive.

Any hope that this campaign will prove more effective than past failed efforts depends on soldiers’ being able to finally move against Shiite militias. If General Qanbar and Mr. Maliki plan to continue shielding militias like the Mahdi Army, this new drive will be doomed before it begins.

What another failure would mean was underscored in a particularly grim way yesterday when the United Nations reported that some 34,000 Iraqi civilians died violently last year, a staggering number in a country of less than 27 million people. Yesterday, more than 100 Iraqis died in Baghdad alone.

Consider also the grisly decapitation over the weekend of Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, Saddam Hussein’s co-defendant and half brother. Two weeks of watching how the lynch mob atmosphere of Mr. Hussein’s execution instantly turned a monster into a martyr throughout the Sunni Arab world should have put Mr. Maliki on notice to get this one right. But whether deliberately or through breathtaking incompetence, the Iraqi government did not get it right, once again fanning sectarian flames.

Unless President Bush insists that Mr. Maliki accept specific and enforceable policy benchmarks and timelines — starting with the disarming of sectarian militias — the United States will remain hostage to the Iraqi prime minister and his radical Shiite agenda.
429 2007-01-17 Verizon Communications is selling its residential telephone business in three New England states for $2.72 billion, shedding more of what the company sees as noncore assets as it invests billions to upgrade its wired and wireless networks for next-generation services.

The operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, serving 1.5 million homes, will be acquired by FairPoint Communications of North Carolina. FairPoint owns local phone networks in 31 mostly rural markets in 18 states, including the 3 where it is acquiring Verizon’s business.

Hoping to head off concern among local officials that Verizon’s planned exit might lead to deterioration in phone and Internet service, the companies emphasized there would be no layoffs and that FairPoint would invest heavily in the region to expand broadband availability.

Verizon had previously indicated that it might sell or divest its northern New England business as part of a slimming-down strategy that has included the spinoff of its phone directory business and the sale of its Hawaiian operations to an affiliate of the Carlyle Group for $1.3 billion in cash.

The company has indicated that it may also divest local phone operations in more rural parts of the Midwest, though it was unclear whether any deals were in the works.

Though it did acquire the MCI long-distance business a year ago, Verizon’s overall corporate shrinkage contrasts sharply with the strategy at AT&T, which just weeks ago completed the $86 billion buyout of the BellSouth Corporation, a company with extensive rural operations.
430 2007-01-17 In the next few weeks, New York legislators will choose a replacement for Alan Hevesi, the state comptroller who was forced to resign after pleading guilty to a felony. The new comptroller will play an enormous but largely unseen role in safeguarding the state’s finances for the next four years. There will be great pressure to make a political choice, but legislators should resist that instinct and vote for the most able and independent candidate.

We are not ready to endorse a candidate, but it is not too early to lay out the job qualifications, starting with fearless independence. The new comptroller will not only have to audit Gov. Eliot Spitzer’s administration, but may also look at any state spending — including how the Legislature doles out its pork and other political favors. For this reason, the five or so Democratic Assembly members who want the position bear the heaviest burden of showing their independence. Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, who controls the largest bloc in the Legislature, will play the biggest role in choosing the next comptroller. It should not be someone who goes easy on Mr. Silver and his colleagues in return for getting the job.

Financial expertise is also a must. The new comptroller will single-handedly be responsible for investing $146 billion in state pension money. The state needs someone with a sure hand to protect the state’s retirees, and someone who knows how to use the power of that fund to promote good corporate governance and socially responsible investments.

The next comptroller should have a proven record as a reformer. He or she will have to reject pleas to waste scarce positions on the politically connected, and be willing to shake things up, from wasteful public authorities to mismanaged school districts. The person should promise to work for public campaign financing for the comptroller’s job.

Mr. Spitzer and the leaders of the State Senate and Assembly have agreed on what sounds like a good process. There will be public hearings, and a group of former comptrollers will winnow the field down to five contenders. But in the end legislators will choose. Their responsibility is to choose someone who will look out for the interests of all New Yorkers, not simply those who did the choosing.
431 2007-01-17 The Dow rose 26.51, or 0.21 percent, to 12,582.59. The index reached a new trading high of 12,585.08 earlier in the session. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 1.17, or 0.08 percent, at 1,431.90, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 5.04, or 0.20 percent, to 2,497.78.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 2.76, or 0.35 percent, to 791.50.

The bond market drew some support from a New York Federal Reserve report that the pace of manufacturing in its region was at its lowest level since the summer of 2005. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 991/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.75 percent, from 4.77 percent Friday.

Oil slumped $1.78, to $51.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest it has traded since May 2005. Exxon Mobil was down $1.03 at $71.63, and ConocoPhillips fell $1.02, to $62.81.

But the drop in oil prices had to compete with earnings for investors’ attention.

Wells Fargo reported that fourth-quarter profit surged 13 percent because of growth in its consumer and business lending units. Revenue also reached a quarterly record. Shares rose 72 cents, or 2 percent, to $36.23.

Intel, considered a bellwether for technology stocks, reported after the close that its fourth-quarter results beat expectations. The stock closed up 17 cents, at $22.30, but dropped 67 cents in after-hours trading.

Advanced Micro Devices, which warned Friday that it would miss expectations, fell 13 cents, to $18.13.

Commerce Bancorp plunged $2.89, or 8.3 percent, to $31.83 after announcing that it was the target of an investigation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve.

Symantec, which makes Internet security software, fell after it said 2007 profit would fall short of Wall Street projections. The company blamed weak performance in its data center management business, causing shares to fall $2.69, or 13.2 percent, to $17.79.

Centex, a home builder based in Dallas, expected a loss from continuing operations of about $2 a share for the fiscal third quarter. Its shares fell $1.55, or 3 percent, to $51.61.

The network equipment maker Cisco Systems fell 88 cents, or 3 percent, to $28.04 after analysts at Banc of America Securities and Prudential cut their ratings on the stock.

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auctions for three- and six-month bills:
432 2007-01-17 In an interview afterward, Mr. Rosen vowed to continue pursuing the project. “Maybe it can come down in size, and we’ll study that,” he said. Mr. Foster, who said he gained “many valuable insights” from the meeting, said, “To be an architect, you have to be an optimist.”

At the start of the session, Mr. Foster offered a passionate defense of his design in a presentation before the commission, responding to objections raised by opponents of the project at a public hearing on Oct. 24. “The most appropriate, delicate intervention is to contrast a slim, vertical tower against the original, very horizontal base,” he said.

He said he had adjusted the color of the building’s skin — less silver and more bronze — but defended the juxtaposition of modern glass and steel additions on older stone structures, citing additions to the Metropolitan Museum of Art by Kevin Roche and to the Morgan Library & Museum by Renzo Piano.

He also said his tower would be a graceful complement to the Carlyle Hotel, an Art Deco landmark completed in 1930 that sits just across Madison Avenue. Mr. Foster also noted that the gallery building had been extensively altered since its original construction, most notably in 1957 when a roof garden was replaced by a fifth floor.

Nine of the 10 commissioners in attendance (the 11th was absent) said the project’s scale and, to a lesser extent, its materials and design were out of place in the Upper East Side Historic District, which is protected by landmark status. But several, including the historian Christopher Moore, took pains to praise the proposal by Mr. Foster, whose works include the 46-story Hearst Tower, which opened last year atop the Hearst Corporation’s 1928 building in Midtown.

“My issue is not with the proposed tower, which, as a student of modern architecture, I applaud,” said Joan Gerner, a design and construction executive, the first of the 10 commissioners to address the project. “My issue is with its location on top of the historic building. This proposed building is so elegant and sophisticated that in my mind it is not appropriate to hide it on top of a five-story building. The public should be able to walk up to it and touch it and experience it and enjoy its presence at eye level.”

Another commissioner, the architect Richard M. Olcott, said, “I really have been surprised at the level of hysteria we’ve heard in all of these hearings.” He called the building “very elegant” but “just too big” and raised concerns about the shiny, silvery skin and the mansard roof that would separate the existing building from the addition.

He called the mansard “an alien element in what is otherwise a very spare and rectilinear composition.”

The commission’s vice chairman, Pablo E. Vengoechea, an urban planning expert, said the height of the tower “just overwhelms the Parke-Bernet building.” Another commissioner, the architect Stephen F. Byrns, argued that “Madison Avenue must maintain its low scale, with the Carlyle tower’s prominence undiminished.”

One commissioner, the Rev. Thomas F. Pike, called the addition “breathtakingly beautiful” but said, “I’m afraid that this marriage makes me nervous.” Another commissioner, Elizabeth S. Ryan, a real estate broker, said the tower’s reflective glass surfaces were “at severe odds” with the existing building.

In arguing that the Foster addition was eligible for the special waiver, Mr. Rosen said the project would actually advance the purpose of preservation because it would restore the building’s facade, remove the fifth floor and put back the roof garden.

The commission was unmoved. Margery H. Perlmutter, a lawyer, an architect and a commissioner, said the waiver provision was not intended to allow huge additions to historic structures.

The only commissioner to support the addition was Jan Hird Pokorny, an architect, who said that adding a vertical tower on or near a horizontal base “has been done in history many times.”

Drawing laughter, he handed out copies of a German print depicting the Leaning Tower of Pisa, begun in 1173, next to the Dome of Pisa, begun a century earlier. “The marriage that has been proposed was very carefully thought out,” Mr. Pokorny said. “I think that we would quickly get used to having those two entirely different buildings next to each other, doing their thing, doing it well.”

A leading opponent of the project, William M. Kahn, who lives in the Carlyle Residences, part of the hotel complex, said he was satisfied with the outcome but vowed to fight any effort to build a substantial addition atop the building.

Fredric M. Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, which endorsed the project, said he hoped the meeting was “not so much a decision but a postponement,” but said he was disappointed. “New York is a city where scale, juxtaposition, don’t destroy the quality of the streetscape,” he said.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Wolfe said he was “surprised and relieved” by the decision, “not so much because it looks as if they’re not going to accept any building that big, but because they showed some backbone.”

“They should be commended,” he said.
433 2007-01-17 The silliness resulting from Senator Barbara Boxer’s comment to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice — “Who pays the price?” — is nothing more than that: silliness.

Neither of these women has family members who are in the military waiting to be sent to Iraq or who are already there. That is a fact. It is the truth. It is not demeaning. It is not an attack. It is not antifeminist.

This is wasted rhetoric and an absurdly ridiculous debate.

Senator Barbara Boxer stepped over a line, but — shouldn’t there be a smidgen of awareness from someone in this administration that there is a singular lack of shared sacrifice in this war?

And that the near total absence from combat of any relatives of the decision makers in this administration symbolizes that difference between this and past wars?

The administration would have done better if it had acknowledged that fact and not merely descended to the obvious reference to feminism.
434 2007-01-17 “Party Time” is an aggressively innovative show with attention-grabbing video, an imposing soundscape and other trappings generally associated with the elusive cutting edge of theater. Yet not far into it you come to an incongruous realization: this is nothing but an old-fashioned two-guys-in-a-foxhole story, with a tank replacing the foxhole and the desert replacing the battlefields of Europe.

This compact work, by the Talking Band, is a sort of condensed rock-and-electronica musical with a video backdrop. Paul Zimet, who wrote the piece, went by the old polar-opposites formula in choosing his two soldiers: Sal (Joe Roseto) is white and from Brooklyn; Frankie (Will Badgett) is black and from Oklahoma.

The men are lost in the desert (presumably in Iraq, though there are no overt references), their tank’s high-tech gear having failed. There’s not much mystery about what’s going to happen, since this is an old playbook: the two will share personal revelations, and ultimately one will go bonkers.

The presentation, though, is arresting. Kit Fitzgerald’s video mixes scenic images, clips of tanks rolling across sand and gruesome scenes of some battle’s aftermath. The men mostly sing their stories, to music by Peter Gordon, letting the rising tension show in small ways: Sal screams at Frankie for shooting a lizard, seeing in the animal’s vulnerability a metaphor for their own.

“Party Time” has jolting moments and beautiful ones, but it doesn’t really add to our understanding of what soldiers today experience. On the contrary, by falling back on an old model of buddies in peril in its effort to depict modern warfare, it only underscores how little we know about what it’s like to be on the ground in Iraq, facing a poorly understood enemy.
435 2007-01-17 The latest day-in-the-life of the counterterrorism agent Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) on ''24'' got off to a solid start in the ratings on Sunday and Monday, but opposite heavy competition Fox finished both nights in second place. According to N...
436 2007-01-17 The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission resoundingly rejected a proposal yesterday to build a 30-story glass tower designed by Norman Foster atop a 1949 building on Madison Avenue. The decision was a major victory for a coalition of Up...
437 2007-01-17 To the Editor:     Re ''Passing Exchange Becomes Political Flashpoint Focused on Feminism'' (news article, Jan. 13):     The silliness resulting from Senator Barbara Boxer's comment to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice -- ''Who pays the price?''...
438 2007-01-17 AN EXPENSIVE BLUNDER -- A top Interior Department official was told nearly three years ago about a legal blunder that allowed drilling companies to avoid billions of dollars in payments for oil and gas pumped from publicly owned waters, a report b...
439 2007-01-18 Roy Richard Grinker, a professor of anthropology at George Washington University, whose 15-year-old daughter is autistic, has just come out with a new book that calls into question what we've come to know as the autism "epidemic." It's called "Uns...
440 2007-01-18 Is it possible that hedge funds, the media stars du jour, may have lost a little of their shine lately? Data from two reports suggests that may be the case - at least, temporarily. Bloomberg News writes of a new study by Hedge Fund Research showin...
441 2007-01-18 A lawsuit filed by former New York Stock Exchange seatholders against the exchange has gotten some backing, The New York Post reported Thursday. Filed by Allison Wey, the wife of an N.Y.S.E. broker with Bear Wagner Securities, the $4.5 million sui...
442 2007-01-18 Tech companies join forces with advocacy groups to draft principles for dealing with human rights abroad. Cisco is missing from the list......
443 2007-01-18 Joseph Biden has more than a passing familiarity with hedge funds. As a Democratic senator and a longtime member of that body's judiciary committee, the Delaware native participated in hearings last year on issues ranging from regulation to naked ...
444 2007-01-18 New shows in New York include "The Scene," "Fluke" and "Toys in the Attic."...
445 2007-01-18 Knight Capital Group, the second-largest trader of Nasdaq-listed stocks, said fourth-quarter profit increased 13 percent as it handled more shares and fees rose from its Deephaven hedge funds. Net income rose to $47.4 million from $41.9 million a ...
446 2007-01-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
447 2007-01-18 Universal Pictures has raided 20th Century Fox and hired away the animation executive who oversaw the hit "Ice Age" movies, a move intended to fill a void left when Paramount acquired DreamWorks and replaced Universal as distributor of animated fi...
448 2007-01-18 Apparently, nothing effaces the stigma of a scandal like a billion-dollar profit, as BusinessWeek, looking at Apple's recent sales figures, points out. Buoyed by record sales of 21 million of its signature iPod digital media players, Apple reaped ...
449 2007-01-18 Research in Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry, released additional preliminary financial results, but gave investors no better sense of the size of the earnings restatement the company would make after a review of its stock option grants to empl...
450 2007-01-18 It looks $400 million is the going rate these days to buy naming rights for the play grounds of professional sports teams, at least when investment banks are anteing up. Setting a record price for the naming rights to an American indoor sports are...
451 2007-01-18 Mild weather in December and early January have helped depress demand for distilled products like crude oil and gasoline, stocks of which are running high for this time of year. Refiners produced less last week, but not by enough to keep inventories from rising yet again, by 3.5 million barrels of gasoline and 900,000 barrels of other distillates.

As the government report noted, the member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are further out of compliance with the group’s production quotas than many analysts expected. Earlier this week, Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the cartel’s dominant member, dismissed calls for quick action to reduce quotas further and prop up prices. So it appears that there will be plenty of oil available in the market for some time to come.

"The market is selling off on the shocking headline showing huge builds in crude stocks," Phil Flynn, an analyst at Alaron Trading, told Reuters. "The market may test the $50 support level, and see if it holds there."

Peter Beutel, the president of Cameron Hanover, said that some of the surge in imports seen last week in the statistical report represented shipments that could not be delivered the week before because fog blanketed the Houston Ship Channel, site of a number of refineries.

“They showed up, and the market is reacting to the crude oil inventory increase,” Mr. Beutel said today in a telephone interview. “But longer term, there are bullish things: Gas demand is extremely strong, and utilization dropped, and that will cut supplies of refined products down the road.”

“I don’t think that this market has looked hard enough at cold weather coming in and refineries running at lower levels,” he said.

Christopher C. Jarvis, a senior analyst with Caprock Risk Management, said that he thought prices could fall even lower for short periods, perhaps to $48 or $49 a barrel, even if more normal winter temperatures prevail from now on.

“I don’t think weather is really going to save the crude oil market,” he said. “I do not think we have seen the bottom yet. I think there is some more short-term pain to come.”

Oil prices have dropped by one-third since peaking above $77 a barrel in July. Twice last fall, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pledged to pare its output in hopes of stemming the slide, but warmer-than-usual weather in the autumn and winter curbed consumption in the Western hemisphere, swelling stockpiles in developed countries.
452 2007-01-18 While Iran remains publicly defiant, insisting it will move ahead with its nuclear ambitions, it is under increasing strain as political and economic pressures grow. And the message that Iran’s most senior officials seem to be sending is that the president, with his harsh approach and caustic comments, is undermining Iran’s cause and its standing.

Mr. Ahmadinejad dismissed the Security Council resolution as “a piece of torn paper.“

But the daily newspaper Jomhouri-Elsami, which belongs to Ayatollah Khamenei, said, “The resolution is certainly harmful for the country,” adding that it is “too much to call it a piece of torn paper.”

The newspaper said the nuclear case requires its own diplomacy, “sometimes toughness and sometimes flexibility.”“

In another sign of pressure on the president to distance himself from the nuclear issue, a second newspaper run by an aide to the country’s chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, also pressed him to end his involvement with the nuclear program. Mr. Larijani also ran for president and was selected for his post by the supreme leader.

“They want to minimize the consequences of sanctions now that they have been imposed,” said Mohammad Atrianfar, the former head of the daily Shargh and a reformist politician. “But they don’t have clear strategy and they are taking one step at a time.”

Iran’s president entered office more than a year ago as an outsider. He was mayor of Tehran and promised to challenge the status quo, to equally distribute Iran’s oil wealth and to restore what he saw as the lost values of the Islamic revolution. His was a populist message, centered on a socialist economic model and Islamic values. And from the start he found opposition from the right and left, in the Iranian parliament and among those who viewed themselves as being more pragmatic.

That pressure has continued — and seems now to have gained more credibility in the face of the sanctions and Iran’s troubled economic standing. The United States’ increased pressure on Iran in Iraq has also raised concerns in Tehran and may be behind efforts to restrain the president, political analysts in Tehran said.

“The resolution has decreased Iran’s political credibility in the international community and so other countries cannot defend Iran,” Ahmad Shirzad, a former member of parliament and reformist politician said.

Although the sanctions imposed by the Security Council on Dec. 23 were limited to Iran’s nuclear program, they have started to cause disruptions in the economy.

About 50 members of parliament signed a letter this week calling on the president to appear before parliament to answer questions about the nuclear case. The signatories need at least another 22 members to sign before it can be enforced.

In another letter 150 lawmakers criticized the president for his economic policies, which have led to a surge in inflation, and for his failure to submit his annual budget for next year in time.

The stock market, which was already in a slump, continued to decline more rapidly in the past month as buyers stayed away. The daily Kargozaran reported last week the number of traders decreased by 46 percent since the Security Council resolution was passed.

“The resolution has had a psychological effect on people,” said Ali Hagh, an economist in Tehran. “It does not make sense for investors not to consider political events when they want to invest their money.”

The daily Kargozaran reported that a group of powerful businessmen, the Islamic Coalition Party, met with Mohammad Nahavandian, a senior official at the Supreme National Security Council, and called for moderation in the country’s nuclear policies to prevent further damage to the economy.

Eight major European banks have severed their business ties with Iran.

Economists say that move by the banks will also lead to a further increase in the inflation because importers must turn to complicated ways to finance purchases.

“The nuclear issue has paved the way for other forms of pressures on Iran,” said Ahmad Shirzad, a reformist politician and former member of parliament.

Despite Mr. Ahmadinejad’s harsh language since the resolution was passed, Mr. Khamenei has not referred to the resolution directly and only once said that Iran will not give up its right to develop nuclear power. Mr. Larijani has said that Iran will not quit the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty or bar International Atomic Energy Inspectors despite earlier threats.
453 2007-01-18 Perhaps the most famous construction crew in the city’s history is down a man.

A figure of an ironworker has been stolen from a sculpture that stood at ground zero for five months and replicates a famous photograph of workers eating lunch on a steel beam high above the city, the police said.

The sculpture is a life-size depiction of the unattributed 1932 photograph, which shows a group of 11 ironworkers above the Rockefeller Center construction site.

The rightmost figure in the sculpture disappeared sometime between Sunday night and yesterday afternoon from outside the sculptor’s studio on 47th Avenue in Long Island City, Queens, the sculptor said.

The sculptor, Sergio Furnari, 37, said he discovered it was missing yesterday when he went out to a truck that carries the sculpture, intending to drive it around Manhattan. He said the thieves had to have climbed up 12 feet just to get to the 100-pound figure, which was welded to a beam.

“It was something premeditated,” he said. “It wasn’t a bunch of kids just passing by.” Last night investigators were taking fingerprints at the scene.

Mr. Furnari worked for a year on the artwork, finishing a few weeks after Sept. 11, 2001. It resonated with the workers clearing ground zero, and was given a space near the viewing platform in May 2002, where it remained for five months before going on a coast-to-coast tour.

“The twin towers were made by the ironworkers, and it was the ironworkers that had to remove the whole steel out of ground zero,” Mr. Furnari said.
454 2007-01-18 The Department of Homeland Security is setting up a new, simplified way for travelers to file an appeal if their journey is disrupted by security queries. The new system will allow travelers who have been denied or delayed boarding an airplane or entering the United States, or have been subjected to more intense searches or questioning by a department official to question why they were the target of such scrutiny. The new system, called the Traveler Redress Inquiry Program, will allow the person to file and track the status of the claim online and is scheduled to start late next month.
455 2007-01-18 Cancer turns up five times more often in women with extremely dense breasts than in those with the most fatty tissue, a study shows. On mammograms, fat looks dark, but dense tissue is light, like tumors, so it can hide the cancers. But this study confirms that cancers are also more frequent in women with dense breasts. Yet specialists say that breast density is rarely considered in discussions between doctors and patients. The study, by cancer centers in Toronto and Vancouver, is being reported in today’s New England Journal of Medicine.
456 2007-01-18 Exxon Mobil said output from its $17 billion Sakhalin Island development in the Pacific off Russia jumped 40 percent in the last month. Oil and natural gas production from the Sakhalin-1 development has risen to the equivalent of more than 200,000 barrels of crude a day, according to Stuart McGill, senior vice president. Exxon, which operates and owns a 30 percent stake in the project, expects output eventually to reach the equivalent of 317,000 barrels a day. Production at Sakhalin-1 was about 160,000 barrels a day in early December, a Bear Stearns analyst, Nicole Decker, said in a Dec. 13 note to clients after an analysts’ lunch with Exxon’s chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson. Exxon began producing crude from the Chayvo field off Sakhalin Island’s ice-choked coastline in October 2005. Exxon’s partners in Sakhalin-1 are a Japanese group known as Sodeco, the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation of India and the state-run Russian oil company Rosneft.
457 2007-01-18 The Bush administration said it would renegotiate the language covering labor rights in free trade agreements it has reached with Peru, Colombia and Panama, in order for the new Democratic Congress to approve the deals. John K. Veroneau, deputy United States trade representative, said that the three countries had been notified and predicted that an agreement on revised language could be reached without a lengthy delay. The announcement was the strongest signal to date that the administration was prepared to modify its trade policies in light of Democratic control of the House and Senate. Democrats, backed by American labor unions, have long complained that the free trade deals negotiated by the administration do not include enough protections for American workers.
458 2007-01-18 The strength of the company’s quarter was underscored by Apple’s far outstripping Wall Street’s expectations. The consensus expectation of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial was for earnings of 78 cents a share; Apple reported earnings of $1.14 a share.

While its mainstay Macintosh computer line did reasonably well, growing 28 percent from a year ago, the company’s business focus has clearly shifted toward mobility. The company’s desktop computer business grew only 5 percent from a year ago, but its portable business was up 79 percent, largely on the success of its MacBook line of notebook computers.

Moreover, the changing face of Apple’s business could be clearly seen in the company’s introduction of the iPhone cellular phone, which will begin shipping in June. The phone blends the company’s iPod music player with some of the data features of its Macintosh computers.

According to market share numbers released on Wednesday by Gartner, an industry research firm, Apple had 5.1 percent of the United States personal computer market during the last quarter. That is an increase of 30.6 percent over the share in the same quarter a year ago. Dell is the dominant personal computer maker, with a market share of 34 percent for the latest quarter, but Gartner said Dell had lost more than 17 percentage points of market share in the last year.

The story of Apple’s quarter could be seen in the weeks leading up to Christmas, when the company virtually transformed its fashionable retail stores into warehouses for eager consumers. In its downtown San Francisco store, for example, two aisles were set aside for customers to line up, walk past large stacks of products and check out quickly.

“We created an express lane,” Mr. Jobs said. “We had a lot of people wanting to buy products and we didn’t want to disappoint them.”

Despite the stock decline on Wednesday night, financial analysts said they believed the company was in an unusually strong position, with both its Macintosh and its iPod businesses doing well and two new businesses, the iPhone and Apple TV, on the horizon.

“The fundamentals are extremely strong,” said Shannon Cross, a financial analyst at Soleil-Cross Research. “The one question was on the Mac side. It was a little lighter than people had expected.”

Several analysts have said they expect the new market segments to increase what has been described as the halo effect — the benefits that Apple’s Macintosh computer sales receive from consumers who have purchased iPods.

Apple may also benefit in the coming months as consumers begin to consider replacing their computers after Microsoft introduces its Vista operating system. Many industry analysts say they believe that the delay in getting that system to market significantly hurt the sales of Windows-compatible PCs in the last quarter.

On Wednesday, Microsoft introduced new price plans for PC users who wish to upgrade their existing systems. The company said that high-end versions of Vista will ship with new PCs even though consumers will have access initially only to the more basic functions. They will then be able to unlock additional features by purchasing upgrades.

Mr. Jobs noted that Apple’s operating system, Macintosh OS X, comes in only one version, and that sophisticated features like its FileVault, which protects data privacy, are standard. Microsoft users will have to buy the most expensive version of Vista, Vista Ultimate, for as much as $199 above basic Vista, to obtain BitLocker, a similar feature of that operating system.

A significant key to the company’s strong sales of digital music players was the introduction of its postage-stamp-size Shuffle, which began shipping at the end of October, about the same time as Microsoft’s Zune music player, which met with lackluster reviews and meager shipments.

“Apple’s iPod sales were outrageous,” said Charles R. Wolf, a financial analyst at Needham & Company, who owns Apple stock. “I have a feeling the Shuffle played a big role.”

Apple said it had generated $1.75 billion in cash during the quarter, leaving it with a cash balance of $11.9 billion.

Analysts did not focus on the company’s stock options backdating difficulties. Only one question addressed stock options, and the company responded that it was cooperating with government investigators.

In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last month, the company said it was cooperating fully with federal officials looking into irregularities the company reported last year, in which documents related to an options award given to Mr. Jobs in 2001 were altered.

Despite Wall Street speculation about Mr. Jobs’s importance to the company, he said he did not believe he was an irreplaceable asset at the firm that he helped found.

“I believe I’m an irreplaceable asset with my family,” he said, “but Apple is an amazing company that would go on without any individual, including myself.”
459 2007-01-18 In “Make Them Fight All of Us” (column, Jan. 12), Thomas L. Friedman poses a real challenge to the Bush administration. He suggests an increase in the gas tax as a means of reducing our reliance on foreign oil imports.

As a World War II veteran, I recall the sacrifices that were asked of the public in the war effort, especially the rationing of gas for automobiles. That system was sensitive to the different requirements of the public, distinguishing between essential and nonessential driving.

History has shown that it was an extremely successful mechanism, not only in reducing gas consumption but also in the fairness by which it was applied. The economic status of the individual did not enter the picture as it would have by applying an additional tax.

I have long felt that the public was not given the opportunity to express its nationalism by sharing in the sacrifice of this war in Iraq. Gas rationing would certainly serve that purpose.
460 2007-01-18 Yevhen Kushnaryov, a deputy leader of the pro-Russian Party of Regions and a close ally of Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, died of a gunshot wound suffered while hunting on Tuesday. Mr. Kushnaryov was shot under circumstances not yet fully explained. Ukrainian news agencies said he was with a group that had just finished a boar hunt when a wolf appeared, prompting at least one unidentified hunter to fire and strike Mr. Kushnaryov.
461 2007-01-18 He went on to assert that Iraq “is not witnessing a war of ethnic or sectarian cleansing” because Sunnis and Shiites were still meeting and trying “to salvage Iraq,” and he rejected the idea that his government tolerated militia infiltration of Iraq’s security forces, saying it had been detaining Shiite militiamen.

And he made a counterjab at the United States, saying that the failure to fully equip Iraqi troops had damaged efforts to bring peace to the country, and if the United States speeded up the process of giving Iraqi troops equipment and weapons, the need for American troops could be significantly reduced within three to six months.

Prime Minister Maliki also anticipated an increase in the budget this year. And he emphasized that the new security plan, including the addition of 20,000-plus American troops, was set to start in coming weeks. He said it would be directed by Iraqis — a contention that has been greeted by some American military officials with skepticism. Other Iraqi officials, meanwhile, scrambled to show that they were making progress.

Ahmad Chalabi, the former exile who helped the United States build the case for invading Iraq and who heads a committee on de-Baathification, appeared at a rare outdoor news conference in the Green Zone to announce that more than 700 Baathists had returned to their old government jobs.

Smiling behind a bank of television microphones as bombs and gunfire interrupted his speech, Mr. Chalabi, who had advocated a strong de-Baathification effort, said the government’s roster of rehired workers would continue to grow.

Falah Shanshel, one of about 30 lawmakers affiliated with the renegade Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, said the Sadr bloc would end its boycott of Parliament in the next few days. In Iraqi Kurdistan, Anwar Dolani, the military leader who oversees one of the brigades slated for the new Baghdad effort, said the last of his troops had left for the capital.

There were also hints of progress on one of the White House’s most challenging legislative demands: a new national oil law.

Barham Salih, a deputy prime minister who heads Iraq’s Oil Committee, said that a final draft of the law, expected for more than a month, could reach Parliament as early as next week. “We are finalizing the draft, and we have the lawyers going over it to make sure it is intact and consistent,” he said. But he declined to outline many of the latest draft’s details, suggesting that negotiations may still be incomplete.

Asim Jihad, a spokesman for the Iraqi Oil Ministry, said Wednesday that the new law included provisions for centralized oversight of contracts with foreign energy companies by a council of appointees from several ministries and the prime minister’s office.

If so, that would be a defeat for the Kurds on their longstanding demand for regional control, but it was unclear whether they had found another way to exert their authority. Mr. Salih, a Kurd, said only that the law “would have some surprises.”

Violence continued in Baghdad. For the second day in a row, a car bomb exploded in Sadr City, killing at least 11 people.

The United States military also said two American soldiers had died in Anbar Province, one on Wednesday, another on Monday.

In Washington, the National Democratic Institute, a nonprofit democracy-building group, reported that an American employee and three of her bodyguards from Croatia, Hungary and Iraq were killed Wednesday when their three-vehicle convoy was attacked in Baghdad.

The group released no names, saying it was “making contact with the families affected.”
462 2007-01-18 Mellon Financial, the investment manager that is being acquired by Bank of New York, said yesterday that fourth-quarter earnings rose 14 percent on an increase in fees for overseeing hedge funds and mutual funds.

Net income climbed to $237 million, or 57 cents a share, from $208 million, or 50 cents, the company, based in Pittsburgh, said. Investment management fees soared 52 percent.

Bank of New York, the world’s second-largest custody bank, is buying Mellon in a $17.6 billion transaction that will create the biggest custodian of assets for institutional investors, topping JPMorgan Chase. Bank of New York will also gain Mellon’s fund management unit, where assets increased 27 percent, to $995 billion, from a year earlier.

“That’s the area people are most excited about,” said Mark Fitzgibbon, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners in New York, about Mellon’s asset management business. He rates the shares sell and does not own any. “It’s the biggest part of their business.”

Mellon was expected to earn 57 cents a share based on the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings included a tax gain of 18 cents a share and costs of 10 cents a share from items including job cuts and merger expenses.

Shares of Mellon fell 51 cents, to $42.91, on the New York Stock Exchange.

Revenue rose 27 percent, to $1.52 billion, including a 14 percent increase in fees for trust and custody services. Expenses jumped 32 percent, to $1.19 billion, because of incentive payments tied to the increase in assets under management and severance.
463 2007-01-18 Setting a record price for the naming rights to an American indoor sports arena, the British bank Barclays has agreed to pay nearly $400 million over 20 years to put its name on the Nets’ planned future home in Brooklyn. The arrangement could double the old record of $185 million for 20 years that Royal Philips Electronics paid to name Philips Arena in Atlanta in 1999.

The Nets’ arena, a glass-walled, 18,000-seat hall with a park on top, is the centerpiece of the Atlantic Yards, the $4 billion complex of apartment towers and commercial space designed by Frank Gehry.

The arena, together with several of the buildings, will be called Barclays Center, said another person with direct knowledge of the deal. The developer building Atlantic Yards, Forest City Ratner Companies, hopes to open the arena in time for the Nets’ 2009-10 season.

The city’s deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, called the sponsorship deal particularly impressive given that Barclays does not even have retail banks in this country.

“To have an international investment bank without a major local presence to invest the way they are in the image of Brooklyn and the image of New York just is a remarkable vote of confidence,” Doctoroff said yesterday. “The idea of using Brooklyn and New York to build a global brand is one that we think is a very wise investment.”
464 2007-01-18 A lawsuit against Merck that seeks medical monitoring for former users of the painkiller Vioxx was revived yesterday by a New Jersey appeals court.

Judge Carol E. Higbee of Superior Court in Atlantic City, who is overseeing about 15,000 personal-injury suits over Vioxx, dismissed the case in May 2005. But the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey ruled that her decision was premature.

The court instructed Judge Higbee to reconsider the claims’ validity, without endorsing them.

In the case, Phyllis Sinclair and Joseph Murray sued Merck on behalf of consumers who took Vioxx for at least six weeks before it was withdrawn in September 2004. The suit sought to have the company pay for a medical-screening program for class members.
465 2007-01-18 The body of a missing New York college student was found in a lake here yesterday, two days after he disappeared, the Connecticut state police said. The student, Joseph Zahornacky, 22, who lived in Shelton, Conn., and was a student at Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., was reported missing on Monday night, just hours after he told relatives that he was on his way back to school from La Guardia Airport, the police said. Mr. Zahornacky had just returned from a visit to his girlfriend in California. On Tuesday night, the authorities said, the police found his 2000 Jeep Cherokee in Lake Lillinonah, the same body of water where they discovered his body about 11 a.m. yesterday. Lt. J. Paul Vance of the state police said that detectives were awaiting the results of an autopsy. Mr. Zahornacky’s brother Michael said the police told him that they did not suspect foul play. He described his brother as an avid guitarist and surfer, and said he was one of four siblings.
466 2007-01-18 The State Board of Education picked a former Massachusetts official yesterday to lead Connecticut’s school system. The official, Mark K. McQuillan, will succeed Betty Sternberg, who resigned as education commissioner to become the school superintendent in Greenwich. Mr. McQuillan, a former deputy commissioner and chief operational officer for the Massachusetts Education Department, is scheduled to take office on April 16 and will oversee 166 school districts and 550,000 students.
467 2007-01-18 BISBEE, Ariz., Jan. 17 —A Mexican immigrant was shot and killed on Friday by a Border Patrol agent in Arizona, prompting an investigation by federal authorities and condemnation from President Felipe Calderón of Mexico.

The immigrant, Francisco Javier Domínguez Rivera, 22, was shot as he and six others were being taken into custody by a Border Patrol agent, shortly after they crossed illegally into Cochise County in southeastern Arizona, between Naco and Douglas. Before he was shot, Mr. Domínguez Rivera scuffled with the agent, whose identity was not released, a Border Patrol spokesman said.

It was the first fatal shooting by a Border Patrol agent since Aug. 26, 2006, when an agent killed a man who was throwing rocks from the Mexican side of the border near Andrade, Calif., Xavier Rios, an agency spokesman, said.

The Cochise County Sheriff’s Department and the federal Department of Homeland Security, the parent agency of United States Customs and Border Protection, are investigating the shooting.

The F.B.I. is also looking at the case and will review the results of the other inquiries before determining whether to expand its investigation, said an agency spokeswoman in Phoenix.
468 2007-01-18 JPMorgan Chase & Company reported a 68 percent gain in fourth-quarter earnings yesterday, ending 2006 on a high note that showed record profits for its investment banking advisory businesses and vast improvement in its trading results.

JPMorgan’s strong performance came during a banner year for Wall Street. But it also reflects the steady progress that James Dimon, its chairman and chief executive, has made in integrating the bank. Now that he has wrung out most of the savings from the 2004 merger with Bank One, Mr. Dimon said yesterday that he was “declaring victory” in the $58 billion deal.

Further progress, however, may be difficult if credit quality deteriorates sharply and the markets slow, resulting in fewer deals.

Yet Mr. Dimon was optimistic, noting the bank’s strong deal pipeline and the improvement in virtually all its businesses. While the bank experienced a decline in the credit quality of its subprime mortgage business, Mr. Dimon said that he expected an uptick not a major increase in overall credit costs.

For the quarter, JPMorgan earned $4.5 billion, or $1.26 a share, compared with $2.7 billion, or 76 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The increase reflects a $622 million after-tax gain related to its exit this year from the corporate trust business when the bank swapped those assets for Bank of New York’s 338 branches. Revenue rose 14 percent, to $16.9 billion. Shares of JPMorgan rose 4 cents, to $48.43.
469 2007-01-18 Mr. Bloomberg, after all, has limited time left to show clear gains. In just three years, he will have to persuade the State Legislature to reauthorize mayoral control of the schools — a point crucial to his legacy as the self-described education mayor. He will need to overcome complaints by many state lawmakers, parent groups and the unions that he has overstepped his authority.

The teachers’ union instantly bridled at Mr. Bloomberg’s comments about tenure. There has been rising anger in the principal corps over the lack of a pay raise for principals and assistant principals since their last contract expired in 2003, even as Mr. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein repeatedly stress that their success hinges on giving principals more power and responsibility.

And the mayor’s plans also threatened to incite rebellion among parents, particularly in relatively wealthy areas in Manhattan and Queens and on Staten Island, where the changes to the city’s decades-old school budget system may be felt hardest.

Such groups have often felt shut out by the administration and expressed doubts about the changes to the bureaucracy. “The notion that this was all part of the plan all along is nonsense,” said Tim Johnson, the chairman of the Chancellor’s Parent Advisory Council, a citywide group. “It’s constant correction with no acknowledgment of error whatsoever.”

In his speech, Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that student achievement remained far too low, but he noted that standardized test scores had risen in recent years and that the four-year graduation rate, now over 58 percent, is the highest in more than 20 years.

Meeting with reporters after the mayor’s speech, Mr. Klein said it was precisely because of earlier success that it was time to take the system to a new level. He and other administration officials described the latest plans as the logical next step in the mayor’s efforts to reverse decades of failure by the school system.

“This mayor doesn’t bet on complacency and the status quo,” said Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott, the mayor’s top education advisor at City Hall. “This mayor believes in bold change.” Calling the plan “a major step forward,” Mr. Walcott added: “The mayor is saying we are investing directly in our schools. We’re not investing in the bureaucracy.”

Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg said he will dismantle the 10 regional superintendents’ offices that he created four years ago to supplant the city’s 32 community school districts. With the regions gone, principals will choose from three types of “learning support” structures — one of which will offer private groups hired on contract.

Another option will be created by four regional superintendents who will remain in the system but will support rather than supervise schools. Mr. Bloomberg said the 32 community superintendents required by state education law would answer to the chancellor rather than to regional superintendents and would rate principals.

The third option is to become a so-called empowerment school, in which principals get wider authority by agreeing to meet performance targets.

The increased role of the private groups in public schools is one of a number of proposals that top the agenda of advocates in Washington and across the country calling for the reinvention of American public schooling. And Mr. Bloomberg’s plan to set higher hurdles to teacher tenure and to revamp the school budget system also fits into the popular thinking of education reformers.

These proposals, however, could get a cooler reception at home. On tenure, the city has long had the ability to dismiss teachers during a three-year probationary period. But while many teachers quit in their first three years, few are dismissed, a fact Chancellor Klein readily acknowledged yesterday.

The administration said it wanted to toughen the process so that tenure is earned rather than granted by default. Mr. Klein said student test scores would be used in the tenure evaluations, a move the teachers’ union is certain to fight.

Perhaps the mayor’s boldest move is the effort to change the school budgeting system, a hugely complex undertaking about which he offered scant details.

Mr. Bloomberg said only that there could be differences of as much as $2,000 per child in allocations to similar schools. Such discrepancies result in part from the way teachers are assigned. Schools are given a set number of teachers without regard to how much those teachers are paid. That means that higher paid veteran teachers can cluster in better schools, effectively giving those schools more money per child. Many schools unfairly get too many teachers, officials said, while others get too few.

In addition, the administration has long believed that some current school budgets are too high because of decades of patronage and corruption by community superintendents. But an earlier effort to erase inequities failed amid loud complaints about painful budget cuts.

The new system, which is to be phased in gradually, would allocate a fixed dollar amount to schools per student, with uniform higher amounts for students with greater needs, including those from impoverished families, those who did not speak English and those in special education.

But there are big risks. Some schools in politically active neighborhoods could lose money over time, making them unable to keep their highly paid veteran teachers. And while a more mechanized budget formula would promote equity, it is unclear that equalized funding would change student achievement.

Broadly, the mayor’s plan raised questions about whether the system could withstand further drastic change, given that most experts say stability is crucial for troubled schools.

“The whole concept of mayoral control was to bring some stability and order to the system,” Ms. Tisch said. “And the more they continue to jimmy around with stability and order during a time when academic achievement has not been soaring, the more difficult it is for people to accept. What’s to say that they are not going to reorganize again next year?”
470 2007-01-18 The body of a missing New York college student was found in a lake here yesterday, two days after he disappeared, the Connecticut state police said. The student, Joseph Zahornacky, 22, who lived in Shelton, Conn., and was a student at Manhattanvil...
471 2007-01-18 BUYOUT BATTLE FOR REIT -- A group of investors offered $38 billion for Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office landlord, topping a $36 billion deal that Equity Office had reached with the Blackstone Group, and setting off the biggest...
472 2007-01-18 Yevhen Kushnaryov, a deputy leader of the pro-Russian Party of Regions and a close ally of Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, died of a gunshot wound suffered while hunting on Tuesday. Mr. Kushnaryov was shot under circumstances not yet fully ex...
473 2007-01-18 McCREDIE--William Black, 80, died at home in New York on January 14, 2007. He is survived by his brother, James, of Princeton, NJ, his nephew, Miles, of Akron, OH, and his niece, Meredeth Winter, of South Freeport, ME....
474 2007-01-18 A Mexican immigrant was shot and killed on Friday by a Border Patrol agent in Arizona, prompting an investigation by federal authorities and condemnation from President Felipe Calderón of Mexico.      The immigrant, Francisco Javier Domínguez Ri...
475 2007-01-18 To the Editor:     In ''Make Them Fight All of Us'' (column, Jan. 12), Thomas L. Friedman poses a real challenge to the Bush administration. He suggests an increase in the gas tax as a means of reducing our reliance on foreign oil imports....
476 2007-01-19 British Airways rolls back its restriction on religious symbols worn by its employees......
477 2007-01-19 Senator John McCain adds on more top-tier media talent that's sure to turbocharge his message....
478 2007-01-19 Harbinger Capital Partners declared victory in its battle against Openwave Systems on Friday, but said that the wireless software maker was taking action to thwart shareholders. The activist hedge fund, which owns more than 10 percent of the wirel...
479 2007-01-19 Getting it right on-line....
480 2007-01-19 Q My building went co-op 20 years ago, and we have always been allowed to have pets. But this month, the new board of directors adopted a change to the house rules that now states owners’ dogs can weigh no more than 50 pounds.

My present dog, a golden retriever that weighs in at 65 pounds, will be grandfathered in. But does the board have the right to suddenly limit the weight of the dogs in the building? If so, how would it enforce this rule? Would it have the right to demand that we get our dogs officially weighed?

A “The right of a co-op shareholder to harbor pets is governed by the proprietary lease and house rules,” said Aaron Shmulewitz, a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer. “And while a precise response would depend on this particular co-op’s documents, most co-ops do permit a board to regulate and restrict pets and to adopt and change house rules.”

If the rule change is authorized by the documents, Mr. Shmulewitz said, it would be enforceable, and the co-op would have the right to compel dogs to be weighed and to bar dogs that weigh more than the prescribed limit.

He noted, however, that New York City law provides that if a tenant (including a co-op shareholder) openly has a pet for at least 90 days and the landlord (including a co-op corporation) does not commence legal proceedings to evict the tenant for violating a pet provision, the landlord is then barred from doing so for the life of the pet, provided it doesn’t create a nuisance.

And that could create a problem in this co-op. For example, Mr. Shmulewitz said, if a resident gets a puppy, it will most likely weigh less than 50 pounds and will be allowed in the building. Once the dog has been there for 90 days, it will then have the right to stay for the rest of its life, even if it later exceeds the 50-pound limit.
481 2007-01-19 China launches missile into space; the world tries to figure out what it means......
482 2007-01-19 The leap into hedge funds by Richard C. Breeden, the former top securities regulator, is making waves. As the court-appointed guardian and self-described fixer of some of America's most wayward companies, Mr. Breeden, who also oversaw Securities a...
483 2007-01-19 Ten major companies, including industrial giants like General Electric, DuPont and Alcoa, have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a firm nationwide limit on carbon dioxide emissions that would lead to reductions of 10 to...
484 2007-01-19 Brontë’s “poor, obscure, plain and little” heroine became a huge success almost overnight when the novel was published in 1847. It remained beloved and tirelessly reprinted from generation to generation, but the book didn’t become fully enshrined in the literary canon until the 1970s, when the women’s movement was reaching its peak. “Jane Eyre” became a treasure map of feminist interpretation, from Jane’s childhood as a rebellious bookworm to her tortuously postponed marriage to Mr. Rochester, who had to lose his sight before he could have her — some scholars see this as a symbol of castration.

In the 1980s “Jane Eyre” also became a required text for postcolonial literary theory. The novel was viewed as subliminally imperialist: a European woman’s individuality and emancipation are nurtured at the expense of exploited third world characters, who remain invisible or dehumanized.

And that view was bolstered by the Jean Rhys novel “Wide Sargasso Sea,” which was published in 1966 and serves as a First Wives Club defense of the mad wife.

Ms. Rhys, who was born on the British island of Dominica and was half-Creole, rewrote the story from Bertha Rochester’s point of view. Renamed Antoinette, Ms. Rhys’s heroine is a delicate West Indian free spirit crushed and driven insane by colonial arrogance and paternalism. (The conceit of the governess as sinister interloper has a separate life of its own, from “The Turn of the Screw” to “The Hand That Rocks the Cradle.”)

Film interpretations of “Jane Eyre” are not nearly as daring: the only aspect of the novel that is mildly reworked in this version is the depiction of Bertha. In the book Brontë describes her as a “clothed hyena,” and the earliest films (there was a silent version as early as 1910) paint her as a wild-eyed nut case. This “Masterpiece Theater” madwoman is beautiful, not beastly, though obviously deranged. She attacks her own brother with a knife, tries to burn Mr. Rochester in his bed and sneaks out of her room at night to tear Jane’s bridal veil to shreds.

The casting of the leads is a bit disappointing. In the past Mr. Rochester has been played by some remarkable actors: Welles in 1944, George C. Scott in 1970 and William Hurt in a 1996 version directed by Franco Zeffirelli. (Then again, the haughty Blanche Ingram was played by the supermodel Elle Macpherson.)

Mr. Stephens is a passionate, tormented Rochester, but not a very imposing one. The actor has chiseled, soap-opera-star features that clash with Brontë’s descriptions. Mr. Rochester glowers a lot and gallops broodingly on horseback, but in the rare moments when the master of Thornfield is in a good mood, he seems a lot like Hugh Grant in “Love Actually.”

No director seems able to choose a genuinely plain actress to play the plain governess; be it Ms. Fontaine, Susannah York in 1970 or Charlotte Gainsbourg in 1996, Jane is portrayed by a pretty actress pretending to be nondescript. Ms. Wilson, who has big blue eyes and a pillowy upper lip, is just as much an impostor, which seems unnecessary in the age of “Ugly Betty.” But she nevertheless does justice to Jane’s pallor and grave, pensive dignity.

And the film, much of which was shot on location in Derbyshire, England, does justice to the novel’s spooky gothic undertones. The childhood Jane (Georgie Henley) is scary-looking, not cute, and her defiance does seem out of place in her aunt’s strict and repressed household. When asked what she should do to avoid being sent to hell, Jane thinks a little and replies, “I must keep in good health and not die.”

That’s the kind of talk that gets Jane sent to Lowood School, a Dickensian orphanage where girls must crack ice in the basin to wash their faces; typhus and other diseases are rampant; and Jane’s first and closest friend, Helen Burns, dies from consumption.

Jane grows up and leaves to work as a governess, but for all its comfort and grandeur, Thornfield is also a frightening place. The manor is vast and empty, and the camera moves up and down dark corridors and desolate staircases as if it were the resort hotel in “The Shining.” Grace Poole (Pam Ferris), a hatchet-faced servant who is allowed inexplicable license around the house, is filmed in a suitably creepy light.

“Jane Eyre” is not an inspired reinterpretation; it’s another respectful, faithful telling of a well-known tale. And that is in itself a tribute to Brontë, who wrote a novel so powerful and absorbing that no filmmaker dares tamper with it.

On most PBS stations on Sunday and Jan. 28 (check local listings).

Directed by Susanna White; Sandy Welch, screenwriter (from a novel by Charlotte Brontë); Phillippa Giles and Laura Mackie, executive producers for BBC; Rebecca Eaton, executive producer for WGBH; Diederick Santer, producer. Produced by BBC and WGBH Boston.
485 2007-01-19 WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 — The Supreme Court stepped back into the debate over campaign finance regulation today, announcing an expedited review of a ruling last month that substantially narrowed the application of a major provision of the McCain-Feingold federal campaign law.

At issue is a section of the 2002 statute that imposes a blackout period before election day on television advertisements that meet the law’s definition of “electioneering communications” and that are paid for from the general treasuries of corporations or labor unions.

The question is how to reconcile that provision with the free-speech rights of advocacy groups that claim to be engaged in grassroots lobbying, the sort of genuine issue advertising that the First Amendment protects.

The court heard the same case a year ago, shortly before Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. took his seat last January. Faced with the prospect of a 4-to-4 deadlock in the absence of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, who was days away from retirement and would not have been able to participate in a decision, the court then sent the case back to the lower court for reconsideration.

While that move postponed the court’s encounter with the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, as the McCain-Feingold law is formally known, an eventual encounter was inevitable because Congress, in passing the law, made Supreme Court review mandatory.
486 2007-01-19 In the latest letter, dated Jan. 16, Mark D. Wallace, the deputy United States ambassador for management, said that the United Nations Development Program’s operation had been “systematically perverted for the benefit of the Kim Jong Il regime rather than the people of North Korea.”

Mr. Wallace said that local staff was dominated by employees of the repressive government, that the United Nations failed to conduct proper on-site audits and depended instead on “sham” ones by the Pyongyang government, and that all payments were made at the regime’s demand in hard currency — dollars or euros — rather than won, the local currency.

“Simply put,” Mr. Wallace wrote, “in the absence of real audits and site visits, it is impossible for UNDP to verify whether or not any of the funds paid to the DPRK for supposed use in UNDP programs have actually been used for bona fide development purposes or if the DPRK has converted such funds for its own illicit purposes.” North Korea is officially called the Democratic Peoples’ Republic of Korea and referred to by its initials.

Mr. Melkert said that the program had spent between $2 million and $3 million in North Korea annually the last two years.

He said it would cease making hard currency payments to the government, local vendors and individuals as of March 1 and will also start hiring local staff in North Korea the way it does elsewhere, by its own choice and on merit.

Even making payments in won will not stop a flow of hard currency to the government, however, because the United Nations will have to buy the won from the central bank, he noted.

“The question — and it is an entirely legitimate one — comes down to whether you want to operate as the U.N. in a country like North Korea or don’t you,” he said.

Mr. Melkert said that he welcomed the call for external auditing of his agency’s activities. Currently they are examined in local audits that are given to the United Nations auditing board, which then decides what to transmit to the General Assembly.

Asked about the American charge that funds might have been diverted to illicit ends, he said, “The audits have not given any reason for suspicion about money not being used for the purposes meant. Still, in order to make sure that there are no misperceptions or unintended consequences, we are supportive of an external independent audit.”

It was not clear how quickly or effectively Mr. Ban could impose his order across the range of United Nations agencies, many of which have differing auditing procedures and over which he does not have direct budget authority.

“It’s worldwide. It’s not going to be done overnight,” said Michèle Montas, his spokeswoman.
487 2007-01-19 Intel is considering building its first semiconductor factory in Asia in the northeastern Chinese city of Dalian. China’s central government has approved the project, said Gao Fujun, assistant counsel at the Dalian Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Bureau. An Intel spokesman, Mark Miller, said the company was in talks with several governments about its next chip factory. The company won approval to build a factory in the Dalian Economic and Technological Development Zone, Mr. Gao said. Intel has assembly and testing plants in Shanghai and Chengdu.
488 2007-01-19 Aside from General Electric and Alcoa, Caterpillar is the leading manufacturing company among the group, which also includes four utilities — Duke Energy, based in North Carolina; PG&E of California; the FPL Group of Florida; and PNM Resources of New Mexico. The group counts the multinational oil company BP and Lehman Brothers as members as well.

Jonathan Lash, the president of the World Resources Institute, said Thursday that “this signals that the differences in the interests between these sectors and within these sectors can be resolved.”

Peter A. Darbee, chief executive of PG&E, said, “My hope and expectation is that Congress, the White House and the public will look at these chief executives” and note that companies with a motive to oppose emissions controls are nonetheless saying, “Here’s a serious problem; it needs to be dealt with, and it needs to be dealt with now.”

The negotiations, conducted primarily by the chief executives of the companies, did not produce a model piece of legislation, but rather a detailed set of principles that they suggest as a guide to any legislation. In the Senate, there are already four Democratic proposals for limiting carbon emissions and creating a market-based system, under which the government gives or sells permits to businesses, allowing them a certain level of emissions.

Once established, such a system would allow better-performing companies to sell or trade unneeded credits, and all companies involved would be able to determine whether it would be more efficient for them to clean up their own emissions or buy credits from others.

The group’s principles include recommending a range of emissions levels — from 100 to 105 percent of current levels within five years, then down to 90 to 100 percent of current levels in 10 years, and 70 to 90 percent of current levels in 15 years. In addition, the chief executives agreed after some discussion, to “strongly discourage further construction of stationary sources that cannot easily capture” carbon dioxide.

This comes close to a rejection of almost all new coal-fired power plants on the drawing boards, including the 11 plants recently proposed by TXU, a Texas utility. The technology that would isolate carbon dioxide emissions and bury them is still in the earliest phases of development, so this near-repudiation of existing coal technology would have a disproportionate impact on utilities that depend largely on coal, like TXU and the Southern Company.

But Jeff Sterba, the chief executive of PNM Resources, whose company gets about two-thirds of its power from coal and is a member of the coalition, explained why he supports such an approach. “The most important thing for us is to have a viable, diverse portfolio of resources, and coal has got to be part of that mix,” he said. “Today, the biggest problem coal has is uncertainty about carbon.”

The group, called the United States Climate Action Partnership, had its origin in conversations last spring among Mr. Lash; Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense; and Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric. Mr. Lash had worked with Mr. Immelt on the rollout of GE’s Ecomagination program in 2005 — which combined pledges of emissions reductions with a new emphasis on energy-efficient and climate-friendly technologies.

Mr. Sterba and the leaders of the other environmental groups, which also includes Frances Beinecke of the Natural Resources Defense Council and Eileen Claussen of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, said that an efficient, flexible cap-and-trade system would stimulate the development of new technologies to cut energy use and provide renewable energy.

General Electric claims significant advances in these areas already. According to Peter O’Toole, a company spokesman, “Revenues from the sale of energy-efficient and environmentally advanced products and services hit $10 billion in 2005,” up from $6.2 billion in 2004.

The chief executives in the group met for the first time in July. During the meeting, Mr. Krupp said, “it became clear that cap-and-trade is an element of the deal that is good for everybody.”

“It’s good for the environmental community,” he said, “because a hard cap guarantees the integrity of the environment” and “industry likes it because it’s so efficient.”

Timing also played a role in the executives’ thinking. As Mr. Darbee said, “We have the opportunity to construct something more pragmatic and realistic while President Bush is in office.” A future political climate, after 2008, he said, might produce “solutions less sensitive to the needs of business.”
489 2007-01-19 LOS ANGELES, Jan. 18 (AP) — A hung jury forced a mistrial Thursday in lawsuits by two men who attributed their heart attacks to Vioxx, the painkiller made by the pharmaceutical company Merck & Company.

The two cases were tried together before a Superior Court jury that deadlocked when they reached the third question on a lengthy verdict form.

The jury did answer yes to the first two questions, finding that Vioxx did have potential risks or side effects that were known or knowable and that they presented a substantial danger to users of Vioxx.

The third question asked if the plaintiffs’ doctors would have recognized the potential risks or side effects.

The first two answers were rendered moot when Judge Victoria G. Chaney declared a mistrial.

It was not clear when there might be a retrial of the lawsuits, brought by Lawrence Appell, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Rudolph Arrigale, of Westminster, Calif.

As of Nov. 30, Merck faced 27,200 lawsuits over Vioxx and 265 potential class-action suits.

Six lawsuits are set for trial by June, with the next scheduled to begin in New Jersey.
490 2007-01-19 In a meeting on Jan. 11 that was closed to the public, the development corporation put forward its preference: to disassemble the staircase structure and salvage only the surface of the two flights of stairs and what was once the plaza paving. The proposal was reported in The Daily News on Tuesday.

A comment period, required under a federal historic preservation review known as the Section 106 process, runs until Feb. 12.

“L.M.D.C. will make the decision, but will not do that until after they have reviewed the public comments,” said Christine Anderson, press secretary to Gov. Eliot Spitzer. “The governor and his staff are absolutely committed to reviewing all options once all of the comments are in.”

Under the plan proposed last week, six to nine granite stair treads would be installed in the steps leading up to the lobby of Tower 2, in the same location they occupy now, but reoriented. Both in and outside the Tower 2 lobby, the outline of the whole staircase would be marked with metal channels.

The bottom-most granite tread from the staircase might be set into the memorial plaza, said Alice M. Greenwald, an executive vice president of the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation and the director of the memorial museum.

The granite stair treads that are not incorporated into the Tower 2 steps might be set into the broad flight of stairs leading from the future visitors’ center at ground zero down to the subterranean memorial hall, she said. Or they might be made part of the exhibit planned within the footprint of the north tower at a level near bedrock.

“It would be our honor to include this material,” Ms. Greenwald said.

Preservationists have urged for months that the whole staircase be kept at its original location. “It’s ultimately bound to be less meaningful not to have a remnant there that survived the attack and the cleanup,” said Frank E. Sanchis III, the senior vice president of the Municipal Art Society.

Richard Zimbler, the vice president of the survivors’ network, said the proposal “cannibalizes the stairway,” although he added that the museum’s plans “are more respectful of the symbolism of the stairway, which is ultimately its most important value.”

Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan passed a resolution last year saying that it “does not believe that it is necessary for the Vesey Street stair remnant to remain in place or that its symbolic and historical value is ultimately site specific.”
491 2007-01-19 LONDON, Jan. 18 — Clara Furse, chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, wants to keep its unwelcome suitor, Nasdaq, at bay — and now she has put money on it.

On Thursday, Ms. Furse and the London exchange pledged to buy back as much as £250 million ($493 million) in shares this year, an offer that would increase the exchange’s debt enough that Moody’s has put the stock on watch for a possible downgrading.

Ms. Furse has said privately in recent weeks that she would prefer to keep the exchange independent, and promote its freedom from American regulators after the rival Euronext pairs up with the New York Stock Exchange.

The London exchange also reiterated that Nasdaq’s offer of £12.43 a share was “wholly inadequate.” Ms. Furse said she was in talks with other exchanges, but would not specify which ones. The discussions, she said, were about “cooperation” and the “opportunity to consolidate.”

Since Nasdaq formally made its hostile buyout offer for £2.7 billion ($5.3 billion) in December, Ms. Furse and the London board have refused to speak with their Nasdaq counterparts and vehemently rebuffed the bid in public, leaving the market wondering whether they were bluffing to attract a higher price.
492 2007-01-19 “Very simply, the benchmark single-family sector is very weak,” Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, wrote to his clients.

The inflation numbers were also ambiguous. The 0.5 percent increase in December came after no increase in November, and sharp drops in September and October.

Not since the 0.6 percent rise in April, has the Consumer Price Index jumped so sharply in one month — suggesting to Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, that inflation is far from subdued, as the Federal Reserve would like.

“All this talk about the Fed lowering rates is looking increasingly unlikely,” Mr. Baumohl said, “and the possibility is growing that the Fed will have to raise rates in the second half of this year.” Like many economists, Mr. Baumohl focuses mainly on the so-called core inflation rate, which measures price changes other than those for food and energy.

The core rate rose 0.2 percent in December, matching the increase in four of the last six months. It appears to be leveling off, he said, at an annual rate of 2.6 percent, which was the year-over-year increase reported yesterday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

If so, that would be well above the 1 to 2 percent annual rate that Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed’s chairman, describes as acceptable.

Patrick Jackman, an economist at the bureau, argued that home rents are playing a big role in the core rate’s steady increase to 2.6 percent last year from 2.2 percent in 2004 and 2005. The bureau measures housing costs not by the purchase price of a house, but by rents and by what it describes as the rental equivalent of owning a home.

Indeed, more people are seeking to rent homes, driving up rental prices. Compounding the impact on inflation, no other item counts as heavily as rents in the bureau’s monthly calculation of changes in the Consumer Price Index.

Most of the 0.2 percent increase in the core inflation rate last month came from rising rents, the bureau reported. Meanwhile, the cost of many other major items — recreation, for example, education and health care — rose only mildly or not at all. Car prices fell.

The two exceptions were apparel and tobacco prices, the former going up because of an anomaly in the seasonal adjustment formula the bureau uses for the Christmas season, and the latter because wholesalers raised prices last month.

“If I were on the Fed, I would say there is really no inflationary pressure in the broad economy,” Mr. Jackman said.

The 0.5 percent increase in the overall inflation rate last month came mainly from a spike in fuel costs. After falling from August until early November, fuel prices rose until late December — and then started to fall again.

Absent the spike in gas prices, the overall price index would have risen by about 1.25 percent last month. Oil prices in 2006 rose much more slowly than in 2005. As a result, the rise of 2.5 percent in the overall price index last year was well below the 3.4 percent increase in 2005.

“Inflation does seem to be subsiding,” Ms. Reaser said, “and I think that will continue partly because the Fed’s earlier rate increases are still putting a lid on economic growth.”
493 2007-01-19 He has far more N.F.L. experience as an offensive coordinator (11 seasons) than as a quarterbacks coach (four seasons), and says he hopes a broader role will give him more influence over Manning’s improvement.

“It’s something that I feel like I’ve been very good at and hopefully will continue to be good at,” Gilbride said during a conference call with reporters. “It’s certainly a challenge, but that opportunity, to serve kind of as a catalyst by giving him play selections that maybe have a higher percentage of success, I think certainly gives him a better opportunity to be the best quarterback that he can be.”

What might have most helped Gilbride secure the job was his comfort as a coordinator and Coughlin’s comfort with Gilbride at his side.

Gilbride was Coughlin’s offensive coordinator with the Jacksonville Jaguars in 1995 and 1996, the franchise’s first two seasons. In 1995, the Jaguars ranked 28th in the league in offense. In 1996, they were third, and Gilbride was hired as the coach of the San Diego Chargers. He was fired six games into his second season, as the rookie quarterback Ryan Leaf struggled.

Gilbride spent two seasons as the offensive coordinator for the Pittsburgh Steelers, then two with the Buffalo Bills. Coughlin hired him as the quarterbacks coach in 2004, three months before the team traded for Manning during the N.F.L. draft.

Manning helped the Giants to an 11-5 record and a division title in 2005, throwing 24 touchdown passes and 17 interceptions. His 2006 statistics were similar. He had 24 touchdowns and 18 interceptions, with a higher completion percentage but fewer yards. The Giants remain alternately tantalized and frustrated by his play.

Last month, the Giants were 7-8 and desperate for a victory to make the playoffs. Coughlin handed Gilbride the coordinator’s duties, including play calling, but not the job title.

The Giants defeated the Redskins, 34-28, to make the playoffs, where they lost to the Eagles, 23-20, on a last-second field goal.

“I would like to think that they saw the response of the team in the last two games and they had studied the success that we’ve had at other places,” Gilbride said, explaining why he believed he was promoted. “Combining those two things, and knowing that Eli was always well prepared, and knowledgeable in what he needed to do in terms of adjusting the protections, directing the running game, throwing the ball where it should be, I think they appreciated all those things.”

Coughlin now needs to hire a quarterbacks coach. Gilbride expects the other offensive assistants to return. Gilbride’s wish list includes more deep-threat receivers, a young tackle and reinforcements at running back, where a void was created by Tiki Barber’s retirement.

All that, he hopes, will make Manning better.

“We’re only going to go as far as he takes us,” Gilbride said.

And the Giants hope Gilbride is in the right position to guide him.
494 2007-01-19 On Thursday morning, Mr. Calderón, a fierce advocate of free trade in last year’s campaign, let the hammer fall. He announced that he had reached an agreement with the major businesses involved in corn products to stabilize the price of tortillas at a maximum of about 35 cents a pound.

He also fixed the price of cornmeal sold to mom-and-pop tortilla shops at 14 cents a pound and announced that government-owned shops in rural areas would sell tortillas at the same price, far below the market rate.

“We will not tolerate speculators and monopolists,” he said. “We are going to apply the law firmly and punish anyone who tries to take advantage of the needs of people.”

There is a continuing debate here about what caused the price of tortillas to shoot up so quickly. Some economists blame the increased demand for corn from ethanol plants in the United States, and it is true corn prices in the States last week reached their highest point in a decade, the United States Agriculture Department said. At the same time, the cost of white corn has risen about 13 percent here over the past year, Mexican government figures show.

But Mexican lawmakers and other officials have suggested that giant tortilla companies and corn flour distributors — among them Grupo Maseca S.A. and Maíz Industrializado S.A., often known as Minsa — have taken advantage of the situation, hoarding supplies to drive prices up even more.

The central bank governor, Guillermo Ortíz, said last week that the steep rise in tortilla prices could not be justified when inflation over the past year had been about 4 percent. “We clearly have a problem of speculation,” he said.

On Thursday morning, President Calderón extracted promises from several large companies to freeze prices. Wal-Mart and other large retailers promised to keep their tortilla price at 27 cents a pound, while Grupo Maseca, also known as Gruma, agreed to lock in corn flour prices at 21 cents a pound and sell tortillas at no more than 35 cents a pound.

The spike in corn prices has hurt small storefront tortilla makers, a hallmark of the Mexican street. José Solano, a 27-year-old tortilla maker in Mexico City, said he had lost about 40 percent of his business since early January, when he was forced to start raising his prices.

“People are still buying tortillas, but many of them buy less,” he said. “Look, we can’t give our product away because we need a profit, and if they raise the cost of corn, there’s no other way.”

The crisis has hit hardest for the poorest Mexicans, who may spend more than a quarter of their daily salaries on tortillas.

“This really affects my budget, the expenses of my family, because I cannot tell my kids to eat less,” said Ruth Soria, a 37-year-old housewife, who was buying four pounds of tortillas for her six children on Thursday. “This is something that they must control well. The tortilla is something basic for us. What the government did today is the least they could do.”
495 2007-01-19 Some in the business are skeptical.

“I guess I wonder, how does a guy with no investment management experience run a hedge fund?” asked Philip Goldstein of Bulldog Investors, which runs hedge funds similar in style and intent to that of Mr. Breeden. “You get the guys leaving Goldman Sachs and raising $2 billion, but this is even more astonishing — he doesn’t have a track record.”

Mr. Goldstein added that “it’s kind of like starting at the top — you’d think you’d want to work at a hedge fund for a while.”

But what Mr. Breeden may lack in investing experience, he makes up for in other ways, according to his friends, who cite his hard-driving nature, his intellect, his attention to detail and his decisiveness, if marred at times by a divalike attitude.

“If it’s a bad idea, Richard will kick it down the toilet and flush,” said Laurence E. Harris, a lawyer in Washington who is one of four close friends that Mr. Breeden nominated last month to the board of directors at Applebee’s, with a view to gaining a say in how the company is run.

Mr. Breeden “knows what to look for,” Mr. Harris said. “He’s a lot less likely to be fooled than a lot of people who are pure investors, because he understands the mechanics of corporate governance and securities laws.”

Mr. Breeden, 57, declined to comment for this article.

He has not only has a new professional life, but a new personal one as well. Last year, Mr. Breeden married a trust administrator of the Bennett Funding Group, which he had overseen as the court-appointed monitor. (He and his first wife, Holly, were divorced in 2005 after 27 years of marriage.)

Mr. Breeden is now perhaps the most senior former government official ever to run a hedge fund. Mr. Breeden oversaw the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1989 to 1993.

He then ran one of the world’s largest accounting firms, Coopers & Lybrand, before establishing his private firm, Richard C. Breeden & Company, in Greenwich, Conn., to advise companies hobbled by ethics and governance problems.

In recent years, he has served as the high-profile outside monitor for scandal-plagued firms like WorldCom, which filed for bankruptcy in 2002 and Conrad Black’s former company, Hollinger International. It was when he was overseeing the bankruptcy of WorldCom, later MCI, that Mr. Breeden first began thinking about starting a hedge fund, according to friends and associates. Seeing the roles played by the Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim Helú and Mark Neporent of the hedge fund Cerberus Capital as investors in MCI, he asked Mr. Harris, “I’m thinking of starting a hedge fund — what do you think?”

Mr. Harris, who recalled the conversation, said Mr. Breeden told him, “The one thing I don’t want to do is fail.”

Mr. Breeden’s right-hand man at Breeden Partners is his friend Steven J. Quamme, a one-time mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer with whom Mr. Breeden once worked at Baker Botts, the Washington law firm.

When asked who was running the hedge fund — in other words, picking companies in which to invest, Mr. Harris replied, “I don’t think you can actually separate Richard and Steve — they’re joined at the hip.”

An entrepreneur as well as an investor, Mr. Quamme has picked some winners in his past jobs, including a chain of video stores that was sold to Blockbuster Video early last decade and a chunk of the Einstein Brothers Bagels franchises.

Mr. Quamme, whom Mr. Breeden also nominated to serve on the Applebee’s board, has also endured some setbacks. His 50 percent stake in Boston Chicken, through Mayfair Partners, an investing partnership that he ran in the mid-1990s, went stale in 1998 when the restaurant and the partnership both filed for bankruptcy.

It is, of course, far too early to tell whether Mr. Breeden’s knowledge and experience will make his hedge fund, whose philosophy is to invest in American companies with fixable problems in policy and governance, a winner.

Some analysts do not see his fund making an impact on Applebee’s.

“We do not see a dramatic shift near-term in the company’s strategic direction that would lead to the ‘value creating’ programs proposed by the activist,” Andrew Barish, an analyst with Banc of America Securities wrote earlier this month.

The fund sought to raise $1.25 billion but has so far brought in only around $500 million, including $400 million from Calpers, the California pension fund. The hedge fund earned 7.73 percent in the third quarter of 2006, according to the most recent available data from Calpers.

To some, Mr. Breeden’s leap into the hedge fund business on the heels of serving as a court-appointed monitor for so many large companies raises questions.

“It’s an appearances problem, and it bothers me,” said Michael Feiner, an ethics professor at Columbia Business School, adding that he thought government officials should be required to wait two years before working at hedge funds or lobbying groups. “I’m disappointed that he is doing this.”

Mr. Breeden’s spokesmen declined to answer questions on whether Breeden Partners would prohibit itself from investing in companies for which Mr. Breeden had served as a court-appointed monitor.

And the transparency that Mr. Breeden championed at the troubled companies he has overseen may go by the wayside with his new venture. Like many hedge funds, Breeden Partners has affiliated entities registered in the Cayman Islands, to take advantage of generous offshore tax benefits.
496 2007-01-19 Once a frenzied purveyor of shtick, Max now plays the straight man, and not just to this cheerfully offensive musical’s panoply of mincing queens. Mr. Danza’s Max plays straight man to the little old ladies too. Why, even the fake comb-over wig that has replaced Mr. Danza’s inaptly full head of hair looks more pathetic than truly funny.

In short, through no fault of his own, the great Max Bialystock is now a featured player in a musical he once ruled over with the imperial splendor of a king.

Well, stuff happens, as Max himself finds out the hard way. Fortunately “The Producers” is a comic machine sturdy enough to power ahead even if a cylinder or two is idling. The director and choreographer, Susan Stroman, has seen to it that the new star is surrounded by a rich stock of seasoned stage performers who play well together, and with Mr. Danza too. (By the way, Mr. Danza’s nimble feet are a nice surprise; he dances easily, with a boxer’s quickly dodging center of gravity.)

Mr. Bart, who first took the role of Leo in 2002, now takes over a healthy portion of the show as the sniveling ex-accountant. Mr. Bart seems to be inhabited by a whole menagerie of animals, each with a serious psychological disorder of some kind. Expressing fear and loathing, lust and joy, Mr. Bart barks and bays and whinnies with uncanny verisimilitude. Happily, he sings and dances with a more human touch, and is the only performer I can think of who possesses an innocent leer.

Angie Schworer is sweetly wistful as the Swedish dumpling Ulla, contorting the English language with the same limber ease that she does her statuesque body. Lee Roy Reams doesn’t quite have the flamboyant wattage to fully illuminate the character of Roger DeBris, the director who ensures that the musical-within-the-musical, “Springtime for Hitler,” is kept light and bright and gay. (Mr. Reams’s Garland takeoff is terrific, though only about a half-dozen people in the audience seem to get it these days.) But Brad Musgrove manages to work some minor and successful variations on the role of DeBris’s epicene “common-law assistant,” Carmen Ghia. (It cannot be easy to play the role opposite Mr. Bart, who set the filigreed template for it when the show opened.) Perhaps best of all is Bill Nolte, whose goggle-eyed Franz Liebkind, the neo-Nazi nitwit, possesses a booming voice, a hearty presence and a splendid unawareness of his own idiocy.

As the stage fills with these vibrantly silly caricatures, Mr. Danza eases into the show and begins to exude a livelier spirit, as if the vital comic energies of his co-stars were contagious. He is most ill-showcased when he is the center of attention, as in the opening number and in the hugely demanding tour de force “Betrayed,” the second-act number in which Max re-enacts the whole show in the course of three minutes or so of song. (Mr. Danza got his biggest, and well nigh only, laugh in this scene when he sat still, looking lonely, to pantomime the intermission.)

In such moments the many thousands who saw the role’s creator, Nathan Lane, onstage — and the two dozen or so who caught him in the movie — may find themselves in the presence of a stage ghost, as the antic phantom of Mr. Lane’s indelible performance seems to swirl around Mr. Danza’s less-animated figure. It’s then that you realize the heaping plate of brined ham you were expecting to have for dinner has been replaced by a respectable but unexciting slice of meat loaf.
497 2007-01-19 The power structure of the Giants, from the team president, John Mara, to the new general manager, Jerry Reese, to Coach Tom Coughlin, took turns recently expressing a general disappointment in the development of quarterback Eli Manning. Each stat...
498 2007-01-19 The BBC said it might have to cut back on the creation of television shows and other programming after the government awarded it less public financing over the next six years than it had requested. The BBC's license fee, which every British househ...
499 2007-01-19 INDUSTRY CALL TO LIMIT EMISSIONS -- Ten major companies with operations across the economy have banded together with leading environmental groups to call for a firm nationwide cap on carbon dioxide emissions that would lead to reductions of 10 to ...
500 2007-01-20 WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 — President Bush waded this week into the furor surrounding two former border patrol agents who were each convicted and sentenced to more than a decade in prison in the shooting of a suspected Mexican drug dealer in Texas.

The case has become something of a cause among some advocates for tougher border security, who argue that the agents should be pardoned because they were doing their jobs in 2005 when they fired on the man, an assertion that has been contested by the federal prosecutors overseeing the case.

In an interview with KFOX-TV in El Paso, Mr. Bush was asked on Thursday whether he would consider a pardon for the two former agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean, who began serving their federal prison sentences of 11 years and 12 years respectively this week.

“There are standards that need to be met in law enforcement, and according to a jury of their peers, these officers violated some standards,” Mr. Bush said. “On this case, people need to take a hard look at the facts, at the evidence that the jury looked at, as well as a judge. And that’s — I will do the same thing.”

“Now, there’s a process for pardons,” he continued. “I mean, it’s got to work its way through a system here in government. But I just want people to take a sober look at the reality. It’s a case, as you said, it’s got a lot of emotions.”
501 2007-01-20 WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 — Senator John McCain of Arizona has enlisted strategists from President Bush’s advertising team to work on the senator’s nascent drive for the Republican presidential nomination, aides with his campaign exploratory committee said Friday.

Mr. McCain’s aides said he was hiring those three strategists — Russ Schriefer, Stuart Stevens and Fred Davis — as part of a continuing accumulation of campaign advisers.

Mr. Schriefer and Mr. Stevens, partners at a consulting firm based in Washington, helped produce some of the most hard-charging advertisements of Mr. Bush’s 2000 and 2004 campaigns.

Among their commercials in 2004 was one featuring Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic nominee, saying that he did vote for an $87 billion war appropriation “before I voted against it.” Another had video of Mr. Kerry windsurfing back and forth, an image reflecting the Bush campaign’s accusation that he was a flip-flopper.

Mr. Davis, based in California, has worked on commercials including those in the 2004 campaign in which Mr. Bush and the first lady spoke directly into the camera in the White House residence.
502 2007-01-20 The police are questioning all 37 residents of the tiny northern village of Fago after the mayor was shot to death in his car in an ambush, local reports said. The mayor, Miguel Grima, had made enemies in his 12-year tenure, the reports said, banning the practice of driving cattle through Fago’s cobblestoned lanes, taxing a bar for putting tables outside and stopping the building of a hotel that would rival his own. Some reports said he had blocked new residents from registering to vote, fearing defeat in an election. The police suspect Mayor Grima was killed by a villager or villagers who bore a grudge, and have begun taking DNA samples.
503 2007-01-20 ROME, Jan. 19 — The Vatican began two days of meetings on Friday over the church’s relations with China, which have soured because of a dispute over the right to appoint bishops.

The meetings were called to discuss “problems between the Holy See and China,” the Vatican’s top spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said Thursday. Experts say they expect top Vatican officials and Chinese clergymen to develop a more uniform policy toward China after the government-controlled church there appointed three bishops last year without the Vatican’s consent.

“It has become unbearable, this fact,” said the Rev. Bernardo Cervellera, editor of AsiaNews, a Roman Catholic news service that closely follows the issue. “The government just wants to control things.”

Pope Benedict XVI has made restoring diplomatic relations with China — cut off in 1951 after the Communists came to power — a goal of his papacy, and each side has repeatedly expressed the desire to make that happen.

But talks have foundered over the appointment of the three bishops by the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Church Association, which oversees the government-approved church in mainland China. Chinese churchmen have accused the government of kidnapping members of the clergy and forcing them to take part in the consecration of the third bishop.

The Vatican strongly asserts its right to control the selection of bishops, though it has let governments and dioceses suggest candidates. The Chinese government has denied the accusations of kidnapping.

Father Cervellera said progress could be made only if the Chinese government clamped down on the Patriotic Association, something that he speculated could happen as the 2008 Olympics in Beijing approach.
504 2007-01-20 Among Hispanic girls, the most popular names were Ashley, Emily, Isabella (which was fifth among all newborn girls), Jennifer and Mia.

(Other most popular baby names in New York City were Emily and Ryan for Asians, Kayla and Joshua for blacks and Sarah and Michael for non-Hispanic whites).

Angel Solano was born last August at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Allen Pavilion. The boy’s father, Angel Miguel Solano, wanted to name him Christopher, said Joseline Liriano, the baby’s mother. But when her 16-year-old niece suggested the name Angel, Ms. Liriano liked it because she thought it worked equally well in English and Spanish. (Her older children, born in the Dominican Republic, are named Rafelina, Joel and Jackson.)

What’s more, when the baby was born, she felt the name fit.

“He is so fair, with the bluest blue eyes,” said Ms. Liriano, who lives in Washington Heights and works in a perfume factory in New Jersey.

Dominicans have accounted for the most births in the city in recent years but are expected to be overtaken by Mexicans in the count of 2006 birth certificates.

The baby name list is not broken down by the parents’ ancestry, and cultural anthropologists were generally at a loss to suggest a single reason for the popularity of Angel, which can take either the standard English pronunciation or the Spanish one of AHN-hel.

“There were 9,362 boys named Angel in 2004 and 10,788 in 2005” across the country, said Cleveland Kent Evans, the president of the American Name Society. “That’s a 15 percent increase in one year, a fairly rapid upward rise, and shows that Angel was increasing in use in the Hispanic community nationally before it showed up on top in New York City.

“It is today’s perfect compromise name,” he said, “for those who want to emphasize their Hispanic heritage and yet assimilate into the larger society at the same time.”

Héctor R. Cordero-Guzmán, the chairman of the Department of Black and Hispanic Studies at Baruch College, said Angel was suggestive of “qualities mothers would like their children to have or is somewhat eponymous. The levels of religiosity in the Latino community, I think, also add to the popularity of the name.

“I do not think the increase in the name reflects increasing (or decreasing) ‘nationalism’, nor is there a particularly popular figure in music or film or TV that would explain the sudden jump in the name,” he said. “When Latino parents look for names they look for names that can be pronounced well in both Spanish and English.”

Guillermina Jasso, a sociology professor at New York University, said Angel was “evocative of the old converso practice of taking on very Christian surnames as a way of survival in a suspicious environment. If the surge in Angel is indeed linked to New Yorkers born in Mexico, then it has an added meaning, a kind of hope and protection for persons, many of whom are illegal immigrants.

“Like wearing an amulet, having an ‘Angel’ under the roof may provide a measure of tranquillity,” Professor Jasso said.

Analyzing the top 20 names among Hispanic boys in New York City, Laura Wattenberg, author of “The Baby Name Wizard: A Magical Method for Finding the Perfect Name for Your Baby,” found that in 2000, 71 percent received Anglo names, 19 percent Spanish and 10 percent crossover names. In 2005, she said, the comparable shares were 73 percent Anglo, 16 percent Spanish and 11 percent crossover.

“What changed was the distribution,” she said. “Angel has been a hot rising name across the country for more than a decade. It rose to the top among Latino New Yorkers by taking a bigger slice of the Spanish-naming pie, not by growing that pie. The rise in Angel is more than offset by the decline in José and Luis. And it’s still not as popular as Justin was in 2000.”
505 2007-01-21 The terrible truth about the Sundance shuttle buses, a menace to everyone who wants to get to a screening on time....
506 2007-01-22 The Blackstone Group is apt to fight back in the bidding war over Equity Office Properties Trust by raising its $36 billion bid, Reuters reported Monday, citing "industry sources." "I wouldn't be terribly surprised if (Blackstone) raised the bid,"...
507 2007-01-22 "You would have thought," one fund manager recently opined to Bloomberg News, "it would be a U.S. bank that's nipping at Goldman's heels." But you would have thought wrong: It is Zurich-based UBS that appears to be doing the nipping. And if the ba...
508 2007-01-22 A film critic says that Sundance, once home to the cinematic free spirit, is now just a place that packages and sells that spirit in predictable form....
509 2007-01-22 A promising director whose first movie was also her last....
510 2007-01-22 Adding to a chorus of concern that the United States is losing its edge as the leading financial center, Senator Charles E. Schumer and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will release a report Monday urging the country to take a series of steps to improve...
511 2007-01-22 The Credit Suisse Group, Switzerland's second-largest bank, plans a record share buyback and will seek takeovers after selling its Winterthur insurance unit for 12.3 billion Swiss francs ($9.8 billion). The bank plans to buy back as much as 8 bill...
512 2007-01-22 Salary.com, which provides on-demand compensation management products, set its planned initial public offering Friday at 5 million shares for an estimated price of $8 to $10 each. The company said in an amended Securities and Exchange Commission f...
513 2007-01-22 It seems that the brouhaha surrounding the treatment of a Bollywood actress on the British version of "Big Brother" is not doing British business any favors. Richard Lambert, director-general of an employers' organization, the CBI, has waded into ...
514 2007-01-22 Providence Equity Partners said it would open offices in Hong Kong and New Delhi to support its growing investment activities in Asia. Andrew Rickards, chief executive of the investment bank N.M. Rothschild & Sons in Asia, will become a managing d...
515 2007-01-22 Tuning into the demand for for saucy, tongue-in-cheek treatment that financial news gets on the net via blogs like Valleywag.com, Dealbreaker.com and the like, a band of video producers and wannabe stars are pooling their talents and cheap digital...
516 2007-01-22 The chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Mark V. Hurd, told Congressional lawmakers that his sale of company shares on Aug. 25 was "totally unrelated" to the fact that he was questioned the same day about an ill-fated internal investigation. The sa...
517 2007-01-22 Christopher J. Steskal, a lead prosecutor of a federal task force investigating the backdating of stock options at Apple and other companies, is leaving his San Francisco post to join a law firm, the United State Attorney's office in San Francisco...
518 2007-01-22 Apple's share price leaped to a record after the company unveiled its latest device to be hailed as the coolest thing ever, but investors are factoring more into their decision than a best guess on the number of iPhones Apple will sell. Ultimately...
519 2007-01-22 “Pfizer is a great company with a great future,” Jeffrey B. Kindler, Pfizer’s chief executive, said in a statement. “We are facing significant challenges, however, in a profoundly changing business environment. I believe we must fundamentally change the way we run our company and meet these challenges and to take advantage of the diverse and attractive opportunities we see in the marketplace.”

Pfizer said the moves would save $1.5 billion to $2 billion a year in pretax expenses.

Pharmaceutical industry analysts have generally been welcoming cutbacks by Pfizer but have said that while cost-cutting is beneficial, the company needs to resume growth by bringing new products to market. Still, Pfizer’s shares were trading down about 1 percent this afternoon.

The moves being announced today are an effort by Mr. Kindler, a relative newcomer to the pharmaceutical industry, to revamp growth and bolster earnings of the world’s largest drug company.

A lawyer by training, Mr. Kindler came to Pfizer only five years ago and served as general counsel, having worked at McDonald’s and General Electric. He was appointed chief executive last July to replace Hank McKinnell, who was forced to retire early. Mr. Kindler had immediately pledged to review all aspects of Pfizer’s sprawling operations.

Earlier today, Pfizer reported that its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2006, excluding special items, fell to 43 cents a share from 49 cents a share in the comparable period a year earlier. That drop of 12 percent slightly exceeded some analysts’ forecasts.

Pfizer said today that it expected its revenue for 2007 and 2008 to be roughly comparable to the $48.4 billion it reported for 2006.

Pfizer has been suffering from the loss of patent protection on key drugs like the antidepressant Zoloft and the antibiotic Zithromax. Sales of both drugs plummeted more than 70 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006, the company reported today.

At the same time its laboratories have had difficulty coming up with new hits. The company suffered a huge blow in December when safety concerns prompted it to halt development of torcetrapib, a cardiovascular drug that it considered the most promising experimental drug in its pipeline.

The drug had been expected to help replace the sales of Lipitor, the huge-selling cholesterol pill, which could be subject to generic competition as early as 2010.

The new cost cuts appear to beyond those previously announced by Pfizer. The company said in April 2005 that it would cut costs by $4 billion, or 12 percent, by 2008. Several thousand workers have already lost their jobs under that plan.

In November, Mr. Kindler said he would cut a fifth of Pfizer’s American sales force, eliminating about 2,400 jobs. Those cuts are included in the 10,000 figure announced today.

In its earnings report today, the company reported that its net income in the fourth quarter more than tripled to $9.45 billion, or $1.32 per share, from $2.73 billion or 37 cents a share. But that was mainly because of a huge one-time gain from the $16.6 billion sale of its consumer health products business to Johnson & Johnson.

Revenue for the quarter was $12.6 billion, essentially unchanged from $12.5 billion a year earlier. For the year as a whole, Pfizer reported revenue of $48.4 billion, up 2 percent from $47.4 billion in 2005.

Sales of Lipitor, the cholesterol fighter that is the world’s best-selling pharmaceutical, had sales of $3.34 billion in the fourth quarter, a decline of 1 percent. Sales for the year were $12.89 billion, up 6 percent. Lipitor sales were hurt because Merck’s competing statin, Zocor, lost patent protection last year, opening the market to generics.

Celebrex, a Pfizer pain reliever, continued its recovery from a slump in sales prompted by safety concerns that resulted in two similar drugs — Merck’s Vioxx and Pfizer’s Bextra — being withdrawn from the market a few years ago. Celebrex sales for the year reached $2.04 billion, up 18 percent from the year earlier.
520 2007-01-22 Not a single case of whooping cough was confirmed with the definitive test, growing the bacterium, Bordetella pertussis, in the laboratory. Instead, it appears the health care workers probably were afflicted with ordinary respiratory diseases like the common cold.

Now, as they look back on the episode, epidemiologists and infectious disease specialists say the problem was that they placed too much faith in a quick and highly sensitive molecular test that led them astray.

Infectious disease experts say such tests are coming into increasing use and may be the only way to get a quick answer in diagnosing diseases like whooping cough, Legionnaire’s, bird flu, tuberculosis and SARS, and deciding whether an epidemic is under way.

There are no national data on pseudo-epidemics caused by an overreliance on such molecular tests, said Dr. Trish M. Perl, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins and past president of the Society of Health Care Epidemiologists of America. But, she said, pseudo-epidemics happen all the time. The Dartmouth case may have been one the largest, but it was by no means an exception, she said.

There was a similar whooping cough scare at Children’s Hospital in Boston last fall that involved 36 adults and 2 children. Definitive tests, though, did not find pertussis.

“It’s a problem; we know it’s a problem,” Dr. Perl said. “My guess is that what happened at Dartmouth is going to become more common.”

Many of the new molecular tests are quick but technically demanding, and each laboratory may do them in its own way. These tests, called “home brews,” are not commercially available, and there are no good estimates of their error rates. But their very sensitivity makes false positives likely, and when hundreds or thousands of people are tested, as occurred at Dartmouth, false positives can make it seem like there is an epidemic.

“You’re in a little bit of no man’s land,” with the new molecular tests, said Dr. Mark Perkins, an infectious disease specialist and chief scientific officer at the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, a nonprofit foundation supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. “All bets are off on exact performance.”

Of course, that leads to the question of why rely on them at all. “At face value, obviously they shouldn’t be doing it,” Dr. Perl said. But, she said, often when answers are needed and an organism like the pertussis bacterium is finicky and hard to grow in a laboratory, “you don’t have great options.”

Waiting to see if the bacteria grow can take weeks, but the quick molecular test can be wrong. “It’s almost like you’re trying to pick the least of two evils,” Dr. Perl said.

At Dartmouth the decision was to use a test, P.C.R., for polymerase chain reaction. It is a molecular test that, until recently, was confined to molecular biology laboratories.

“That’s kind of what’s happening,” said Dr. Kathryn Edwards, an infectious disease specialist and professor of pediatrics at Vanderbilt University. “That’s the reality out there. We are trying to figure out how to use methods that have been the purview of bench scientists.”

The Dartmouth whooping cough story shows what can ensue.

To say the episode was disruptive was an understatement, said Dr. Elizabeth Talbot, deputy state epidemiologist for the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services.

“You cannot imagine,” Dr. Talbot said. “I had a feeling at the time that this gave us a shadow of a hint of what it might be like during a pandemic flu epidemic.”

Yet, epidemiologists say, one of the most troubling aspects of the pseudo-epidemic is that all the decisions seemed so sensible at the time.

Dr. Katrina Kretsinger, a medical epidemiologist at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who worked on the case along with her colleague Dr. Manisha Patel, does not fault the Dartmouth doctors.

“The issue was not that they overreacted or did anything inappropriate at all,” Dr. Kretsinger said. Instead, it is that there is often is no way to decide early on whether an epidemic is under way.

Before the 1940s when a pertussis vaccine for children was introduced, whooping cough was a leading cause of death in young children. The vaccine led to an 80 percent drop in the disease’s incidence, but did not completely eliminate it. That is because the vaccine’s effectiveness wanes after about a decade, and although there is now a new vaccine for adolescents and adults, it is only starting to come into use. Whooping cough, Dr. Kretsinger said, is still a concern.

The disease got its name from its most salient feature: Patients may cough and cough and cough until they have to gasp for breath, making a sound like a whoop. The coughing can last so long that one of the common names for whooping cough was the 100-day cough, Dr. Talbot said.

But neither coughing long and hard nor even whooping is unique to pertussis infections, and many people with whooping cough have symptoms that like those of common cold: a runny nose or an ordinary cough.

“Almost everything about the clinical presentation of pertussis, especially early pertussis, is not very specific,” Dr. Kirkland said.

That was the first problem in deciding whether there was an epidemic at Dartmouth.

The second was with P.C.R., the quick test to diagnose the disease, Dr. Kretsinger said.

With pertussis, she said, “there are probably 100 different P.C.R. protocols and methods being used throughout the country,” and it is unclear how often any of them are accurate. “We have had a number of outbreaks where we believe that despite the presence of P.C.R.-positive results, the disease was not pertussis,” Dr. Kretsinger added.

At Dartmouth, when the first suspect pertussis cases emerged and the P.C.R. test showed pertussis, doctors believed it. The results seem completely consistent with the patients’ symptoms.

“That’s how the whole thing got started,” Dr. Kirkland said. Then the doctors decided to test people who did not have severe coughing.

“Because we had cases we thought were pertussis and because we had vulnerable patients at the hospital, we lowered our threshold,” she said. Anyone who had a cough got a P.C.R. test, and so did anyone with a runny nose who worked with high-risk patients like infants.

“That’s how we ended up with 134 suspect cases,” Dr. Kirkland said. And that, she added, was why 1,445 health care workers ended up taking antibiotics and 4,524 health care workers at the hospital, or 72 percent of all the health care workers there, were immunized against whooping cough in a matter of days.

“If we had stopped there, I think we all would have agreed that we had had an outbreak of pertussis and that we had controlled it,” Dr. Kirkland said.

But epidemiologists at the hospital and working for the States of New Hampshire and Vermont decided to take extra steps to confirm that what they were seeing really was pertussis.

The Dartmouth doctors sent samples from 27 patients they thought had pertussis to the state health departments and the Centers for Disease Control. There, scientists tried to grow the bacteria, a process that can take weeks. Finally, they had their answer: There was no pertussis in any of the samples.

“We thought, Well, that’s odd,” Dr. Kirkland said. “Maybe it’s the timing of the culturing, maybe it’s a transport problem. Why don’t we try serological testing? Certainly, after a pertussis infection, a person should develop antibodies to the bacteria.”

They could only get suitable blood samples from 39 patients — the others had gotten the vaccine which itself elicits pertussis antibodies. But when the Centers for Disease Control tested those 39 samples, its scientists reported that only one showed increases in antibody levels indicative of pertussis.

The disease center did additional tests too, including molecular tests to look for features of the pertussis bacteria. Its scientists also did additional P.C.R. tests on samples from 116 of the 134 people who were thought to have whooping cough. Only one P.C.R. was positive, but other tests did not show that that person was infected with pertussis bacteria. The disease center also interviewed patients in depth to see what their symptoms were and how they evolved.

“It was going on for months,” Dr. Kirkland said. But in the end, the conclusion was clear: There was no pertussis epidemic.

“We were all somewhat surprised,” Dr. Kirkland said, “and we were left in a very frustrating situation about what to do when the next outbreak comes.”

Dr. Cathy A. Petti, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Utah, said the story had one clear lesson.

“The big message is that every lab is vulnerable to having false positives,” Dr. Petti said. “No single test result is absolute and that is even more important with a test result based on P.C.R.”

As for Dr. Herndon, though, she now knows she is off the hook.

“I thought I might have caused the epidemic,” she said.
521 2007-01-22 A truism of investing is that to beat the market consistently, an investor must either take above-average risk or trade on inside information. That inevitably casts a cloud over hedge funds, which exist to beat the market. Many fail, sometimes spectacularly so. But many succeed. The question is, How?

The Wall Street Journal reported that Eliot Spitzer was asking just that question. Shortly before he resigned as New York’s attorney general to become the governor, Mr. Spitzer opened investigations into whether employees at companies including Best Buy and Circuit City had improperly given nonpublic information to hedge fund managers.

Two research firms, the Gerson Lehrman Group and Vista Research, a unit of McGraw Hill, are also under investigation. They specialize in matching up people who have information — say, middle managers — with clients who crave information, like hedge funds managers. The firms collect fees from hedge fund clients and pay sources as consultants. Business for these firms has boomed since 2000, when federal regulators enacted disclosure rules that made executives at public companies wary of speaking privately with big investors.

It will be up to the prosecutors to determine if the matchmaking firms merely appear to be conduits for nonpublic information, or if they indeed are. The firms say they follow procedures to guard against any inappropriate disclosures.

But the safeguards seem weak. Gerson Lehrman told The Journal that it reminds its consultants not to divulge confidential or restricted information. A Vista spokesman said consultants must sign an ethics code that says they’re “never expected” to comment on their employer.

New York’s new attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, should pursue any wrongdoing. And the new Congress should move forward with hedge fund regulation. The possibility of a destabilizing meltdown only grows the longer the funds escape oversight.
522 2007-01-22 Companies are proving that when it comes to health care, you can re-teach old dogs an old trick. On-site health clinics in the workplace, which had been disappearing since their peak in the 1970s, are staging a comeback. Corporations are waking up to the fact that healthy employees are more productive, while sick workers are a drag on the bottom line. And they’re trying to do something about it.

The sky-high cost of health care in the United States isn’t just a challenge for the families that struggle to pay rising premiums and co-payments. It’s also a serious issue for American companies, whose competitors in other countries often benefit from national health insurance programs.

As Milt Freudenheim reported recently in The Times ("Company Clinics Cut Health Costs," Jan. 14), some big American-based companies have rediscovered that it’s cheaper in the long run to spend a little more on in-house health clinics. Companies from the Pepsi Bottling Group to Credit Suisse have opened or expanded their clinics. More than a quarter of the nation’s 1,000 largest employers will likely offer some kind of on-site health services by the end of the year.

For employees, a clinic is a major time saver, convenient and cheap (or even free). For companies, spending a relatively small amount of money on early detection and basic preventive care can save on expensive hospital bills down the line. It’s an interesting stopgap solution, provided companies do not abuse their knowledge of employee medical conditions and remain focused on the long-term health of their workers, instead of just steering them away from expensive procedures.

Innovative as they are, office and factory infirmaries will hardly solve the nation’s entrenched health care crisis.

Total health spending reached nearly $2 trillion in 2005, accounting for 16 percent of the economy. It is a bit scary that the 6.9 percent increase in health spending that year — rather than a cause for alarm — is celebrated as the slowest pace of increase in six years. There are 47 million uninsured people in this country. State governments, like those in Massachusetts and California, are trying to chip away at the problem and business groups are lobbying in Washington for help with out-of-control costs.
523 2007-01-22 With a 4-year-old girl clutching her hand, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton began her newborn presidential campaign yesterday at a Manhattan health care clinic, announcing legislation that would significantly expand federal health insurance for Americans under age 18.

Mrs. Clinton said her husband, Bill, and their daughter, Chelsea, would play “support system” roles for her, and she pledged to continue protecting New York’s interests in Washington even as she campaigns in Iowa and New Hampshire.

She said she wanted to be president because she was “worried about our country” and wanted to “put it back on the right course.”

She made no reference to the other seven Democratic candidates, other than to say the race would be a great contest and that “a lot of talented people” were running.

The visit to Ryan/Chelsea-Clinton Community Health Center, which is just blocks west of Broadway (and is named after two neighborhoods it serves), was highly scripted political theater.

Reminiscent of the scene this month when Representative Nancy Pelosi became the first woman to be speaker of the House, children surrounded Mrs. Clinton and climbed over their parents in the audience. The event was intended to convey both her policy smarts and her warmer maternal side — a combination new to presidential primaries.
524 2007-01-22 Taking pre-emptive steps to address concerns about regulation and litigation might halt the country’s loss of market share and add $15 billion to $30 billion in revenue in 2011 alone, the study said. It would also allow for the creation of 30,000 to 60,000 jobs in the securities sector.

Like all reports focused on American competitiveness, the latest report, entitled “Sustaining New York’s and the U.S.’s Global Financial Services Leadership” and conducted by McKinsey, addresses the fact that the United States now commands a significantly declining share of the global market for initial public offerings.

But it also examines the broader financial services arena, including the fast-growing derivatives and structured product markets, the gigantic loan market as well as the traditional markets in stocks and bonds.

The report shows foreign markets closing in on the United States in size and certain product offerings. For example, in 2005, American investment banking and sales and trading revenue totaled $109 billion ($69 billion in sales and trading and $40 billion in investment banking) compared with $98 billion in Europe and $37 billion in Asia.

The United States remains the largest financial market in the world, as measured by what is called “financial stock” — equities, private debt, government debt and bank deposits — with $51 trillion in 2005, but its pace of growth was significantly slower than in other markets, especially the Asia-Pacific (excluding Japan) and Britain.

Emerging markets will naturally grow faster than the more developed United States market. But administration officials for Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Schumer said the report aimed to address factors particular to the United States, namely litigation and regulation, which might deter businesses from coming here.

Critics of easing regulatory standards and the ability to bring securities class-action lawsuits point out that litigation costs have been unusually high because of settlements related to the frauds that caused the collapse of Enron and WorldCom.

Europe has a larger share of some of the more innovative areas of finance, including derivatives, the report concludes. Europe has a 56 percent share of the $52 billion global revenue pool from derivatives and a 60 percent or greater share of revenue in interest rates, foreign exchange, equity and fund-linked derivatives. The United States leads only in commodity derivatives.

Short-term recommendations include improved guidance on Sarbanes-Oxley implementation, including the ability for small companies and foreign companies within certain “sophisticated” markets to opt out of some requirements as long as it is disclosed.

The report suggests that the S.E.C. use certain exemption powers to limit liability for foreign companies to securities-related damages and impose caps on auditors’ damages. Like the Capital Markets Committee report in November, the latest study recommends that the S.E.C. allow companies to mediate conflicts through arbitration rather than litigation.

McKinsey interviewed 50 financial service chief executives and business leaders, received surveys from an additional 30 financial service chief executives and separately polled 275 other senior executives in the field.

The pace of job creation in London far outstripped that of New York City, the report says. From 2002 to 2005, London’s financial services work force grew by 4.3 percent, to 318,000, while New York City’s shrunk by 0.7 percent, or 2,000, to 328,400 jobs.

London has been gaining an edge in attracting the largest hedge funds. In 2002, London was home to only 3 of the largest 50 hedge funds, compared with 12 today. In that same period, New York had a decline: today 18 of the largest 50 hedge funds are based in New York, compared with 28 in 2002 (Connecticut has gained two over that period, from 6 to 8).

Reiterating oft-cited figures related to market share of global initial public offerings, the report highlighted that the United States controlled 16 percent of the global stock-offering volume, exceeding $1 billion, in 2006 (through the beginning of November) compared with 57 percent in 2001. Europe’s share has leaped from 33 percent in 2001 to 63 percent through the beginning of November.

“Let’s be clear: The financial services industry is one reason that the 20th century was the American century and that New York became the world’s capital,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “We’ve outlined a range of practical yet innovative steps to ensure the 21st century is just as bright.”
525 2007-01-22 AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 20 — The state capital of Texas takes great pride in a live music scene that cherishes tradition while also valuing innovation. The city is a hotbed of both roots music and experimental rock; classical music, by comparison, claims a considerably smaller share of attention. Austin Lyric Opera has long been overshadowed by older, larger, better-financed companies in Dallas and Houston.

But in recent years the company has begun to carve a niche by presenting contemporary works new to Texas, including Jake Heggie’s “Dead Man Walking” and André Previn’s “Streetcar Named Desire.” On Friday night, Austin Lyric Opera offered its first American premiere, “Waiting for the Barbarians” by Philip Glass, in Bass Concert Hall on the University of Texas campus.

Theater Erfurt, the German company that commissioned the work, staged the premiere in September 2005, and the opera was subsequently staged in Amsterdam. Richard Buckley, the artistic director of Austin Lyric Opera, secured the rights to the work’s United States premiere, making it a highlight of the company’s 20th-anniversary season.

There were hometown connections as well. Mr. Glass based the work on a 1980 novel by the South African author and Nobel laureate J. M. Coetzee, a University of Texas alumnus. Guy Montavon, who directed the Erfurt production and adapted it for Austin, staged Mr. Coetzee’s thinly disguised allegory of apartheid in a manner that suggested parallels to the current situation in Iraq — a provocative image in the city where President Bush served as Texas governor.

“Waiting for the Barbarians” is filled with disquieting and timely resonances. The story deals with the comfortable Magistrate of a frontier town at the outer limits of a nameless empire. He comes into conflict with a military force sent to wage war against the “barbarians”: wild outsiders who have been deemed a threat to the empire’s security.
526 2007-01-22 More than four times as many households downloaded videos from file-sharing networks as they did from centralized services like iTunes in the third quarter of 2006.

Downloads from file-sharing networks are generally free, and have long occurred outside the control of copyright holders. The cost of for-pay downloads, about 90 percent of which go through iTunes, generally includes a licensing fee.

But not many of the freeloaders are actually downloading mainstream content, according to the new data on downloading, which was gathered by the NPD Group, a consumer-research firm, through tracking software installed in 12,500 households. Only about 20 percent of the videos downloaded from file-sharing networks were TV shows, and 5 percent were mainstream movies, while just under 60 percent were pornographic movies.

The relative scarcity of pirated movie downloads may have more to do with legal and business pressure than with users’ tastes. Many file-sharing networks are struggling to find accommodation with the movie and recording industries; for example, BitTorrent, a service whose software is on about 80 million computers, struck a deal in 2005 with the Motion Picture Association of America to remove infringing content from the search index on its Web site. ALEX MINDLIN
527 2007-01-22 Spending on consumer drug advertising, meanwhile, has been growing robustly, from $1.1 billion in 1997 to $4.2 billion in 2005, according to a recent report to Congress by the Government Accountability Office. In the first nine months of 2006, spending rose 8.4 percent to $3.29 billion, on track toward $4.5 billion for the year, according to TNS Media Intelligence, an advertising research firm.

Spending on the ads faltered in 2005 after soaring 27 percent in 2004, before Vioxx was withdrawn, said David Kweskin, a senior executive at the firm. “Now they are in a catch-up phase.”

Two independent government watchdog groups sharply criticized consumer drug advertising recently, and a separate survey Jan. 9 commissioned by the PricewaterhouseCoopers accounting and consulting firm indicated that skepticism is widespread among the public, too. Only 1 in 10 consumers said the direct-to-consumer, or D.T.C., ads could provide useful information to a large audience, the survey said. (Consumer drug advertising is not permitted in most of the world, except New Zealand and the United States.)

The pharmaceutical industry itself acknowledges having an image problem.

“It would be naïve to not acknowledge the fact that D.T.C. advertising is also a lightening-rod in the health care debate in this country,” said Billy Tauzin, the former congressman who is now president and chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, in a speech to venture capitalists last spring. There is “one great problem” that the manufacturers face, he said: “in a word, it is trust.”

“While individual patients find the information useful in discussions with their physicians,” he added in his speech, “patients, physicians and consumers generally express unhappiness with D.T.C. advertising.”

Mr. Tauzin’s organization issued voluntary guidelines for consumer ads, which took effect last year. Under the guidelines, the companies have promised to hold off on consumer advertising of a new medicine for an unspecified “appropriate” period. That would allow time to tell doctors about risks and benefits, before television and Web site viewers see an ad and demand a prescription.

Twenty-seven members of the pharmaceutical manufacturers organization have endorsed the guidelines, but it is hard to figure exactly how long the delays in advertising will run. Bristol-Myers Squibb has said that it would delay for 12 months. Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer said they would wait six months. The manufacturers group cannot say how other companies have interpreted the guidelines, a spokesman said.

But according to TNS Media Intelligence, the companies have actually been waiting 15 months, on average, since the Vioxx debacle.

Critics say that even after F.D.A. approval, the full safety profile of a new drug cannot be known until it has been widely used for a number of years.

But the manufacturers’ guidelines have to be voluntary, said Daniel E. Troy, a former chief counsel of the F.D.A., because the Supreme Court has “struck down restrictions on advertising of tobacco, alcohol, gambling and unapproved compounded drugs.”

The agency sent 15 warning letters to drug companies regarding ads in 2005 and a total of 22 complaints last year.

The F.D.A. told AstraZeneca, for example, to “immediately cease” a “misleading superiority claim” in a 2005 TV commercial. The ad said AstraZeneca’s Crestor was “clearly the best” in a “head to head” test with the three largest-selling cholesterol drugs.

Emily Y. Denney, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said that by the time the letter was received, in March 2005, the ads were no longer running. The company defended its message in the advertising as “appropriate.”

Another F.D.A. letter told Amgen, a biotechnology company, to stop running commercials for Enbrel, a treatment for the skin disease psoriasis, that the F.D.A. said minimized “serious risks” associated with the drug. Amgen immediately withdrew the commercial.

Last year, the company obtained F.D.A. approval of the contents of a new Enbrel television ad before showing it, David Polk, an Amgen spokesman said. Corporate lawyers say such advertising is protected by the First Amendment under a doctrine of commercial free speech. But some experts say the limits of the protection are murky.

The closest approach to clarity was in 2002 when the Supreme Court rejected, by a 5-to-4 vote, a federal restriction on advertising by pharmacists who make their own compounds.

“It is a giant game of chicken between the government and the industry,” said R. Alta Charo, a law professor and bioethics specialist at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. “I don’t believe either side really wants to see a definitive case go to the Supreme Court because neither side is willing to take the risk that they will lose.”

Professor Charo was a member of a committee of experts of the Institute of Medicine, which examined drug safety issues at the request of the F.D.A. Last fall, the committee called on Congress to give the F.D.A. new authority over advertising, including the power to require a two-year moratorium on advertising before approving a new drug.

“I think the Congress has clearly indicated its strong interest and concerns about the F.D.A. and drug safety for consumers,” said Sheila P. Burke, a longtime Republican health policy expert who headed the Institute of Medicine committee. “Broad-scale advertising can sometimes lead to a rapid increase in the use of a drug” that raises the risk of harm for patients, she said.

F.D.A. regulators would be granted the power to require moratoriums under a bill sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Michael B. Enzi, the chairman and ranking Republican member of the Senate Health, Labor, Education and Pensions Committee.

“Patients deserve the best and most accurate information about the medicines they take,” Senator Kennedy said in a statement. “An essential part of any drug safety proposal must be to give the F.D.A. the authority and resources it needs to oversee direct-to-consumer advertising, and to allow the F.D.A. to impose conditions or limits on that advertising, where needed to protect the public health."

Testifying for the pharmaceutical industry last year, Dr. Adrian Thomas, a vice president of Johnson & Johnson, insisted that “the important First Amendment issues that arise from banning truthful speech, even for a period of time, must be carefully considered before legislating in this area.”

The Government Accountability Office said last November that the F.D.A. should be doing a better job of overseeing consumer drug ads. Now, the F.D.A. reviews only a small fraction of the advertising, picking and choosing without proper priorities, the G.A.O. said.

The G.A.O. report had been requested by three influential senators: Bill Frist, a doctor, before he stepped down as Republican leader of the Senate; Charles E. Grassley, now the ranking Republican on the finance committee, and Herb Kohl, a Democrat who heads an appropriations subcommittee that oversees the F.D.A.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, added a further criticism: that the F.D.A. had been slow to crack down on drug ads that included “false and misleading” claims, he said in a telephone interview.

F.D.A. officials said they had to deal with 54,000 drug promotions each year, aimed at both doctors and consumers.

“We are seriously considering all of the recommendations” of the Institute of Medicine report, said Thomas Abrams, director of the F.D.A.’s division of drug marketing, advertising and communications.
528 2007-01-22 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
529 2007-01-22 Re “In This Turn at the Top, Democrats Seek the Middle on Social Issues” (front page, Jan. 16):

Expanding access to birth control, family planning and sex education is not clear evidence of a Democratic Party shift to the middle on social issues; those have all been contentious questions during the Bush presidency.

Nor is the focus on employment nondiscrimination and hate crimes a retreat on gay rights. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, may or may not be right that those measures are achievable now, but the gay marriage issue is off the table in Congress because Republicans are no longer in a position to raise it as a wedge issue.

For a decade now the battle for marriage equality by gay advocates has been a state-focused, not federal, effort. And despite the article’s suggestion that the country has moved right on social issues, demographic trends, particularly young people’s attitudes toward gay rights and marriage, indicate otherwise.
530 2007-01-22 To the Editor:     Re ''In This Turn at the Top, Democrats Seek the Middle on Social Issues'' (front page, Jan. 16):...
531 2007-01-22 DRUG ADS UNDER SCRUTINY -- Drug advertising aimed at consumers is likely to face hard scrutiny in the new Congress as it considers renewal of a law renewing the fees that manufacturers pay to speed reviews of new drugs. The pharmaceutical industry...
532 2007-01-22 When Comedy Central's Stephen Colbert, who plays a caricature of a self-involved conservative pundit on ''The Colbert Report,'' exchanged guest stints Thursday with Bill O'Reilly, the Fox News host whom Mr. Colbert affectionately calls ''Papa Bear...
533 2007-01-22 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    AeroVironment, an initial public offering of 6.7 million shares. Goldman Sachs.  Allis-Chalmers, 4.5 million shares. RBC Capital Markets.  Baldor Electric Company, 6.3 ...
534 2007-01-22 Dr. Brooke Herndon, an internist at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, could not stop coughing. For two weeks starting in mid-April last year, she coughed, seemingly nonstop, followed by another week when she coughed sporadically, annoying, she s...
535 2007-01-23 For Slate's Daniel Gross, there is no mystery behind the influx of former politicians into the world of hedge funds. "Hedge funds can make you filthy rich," he states. But why would hedge funds - which often use highly sophisticated investing stra...
536 2007-01-23 Photos of some of the films and actors nominated for the 2007 Academy Awards....
537 2007-01-23 The VF Corporation said Tuesday that it would sell its intimate apparel business to Berkshire Hathaway's Fruit of the Loom for $350 million in cash as it focuses on more profitable businesses like outdoor clothing. VF, which owns Wrangler jeans an...
538 2007-01-23 "After the Wedding," Denmark

 “Days of Glory (Indigenes),” Algeria

 “The Lives of Others,” Germany

 “Pan’s Labyrinth,” Mexico

 “Water,” Canada

Sacha Baron Cohen, Anthony Hines, Peter Baynham, Dan Mazer and Todd Phillips, “Borat Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan”

 Alfonso Cuaron, Timothy J. Sexton, David Arata, Mark Fergus and Hawk Ostby, “Children of Men”

 William Monahan, “The Departed”

 Todd Field and Tom Perrotta, “Little Children”

 Patrick Marber, “Notes on a Scandal”

“Apocalypto”

 “Blood Diamond”

 “Dreamgirls”

 “Flags of Our Fathers”

 “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest”

“Apocalypto”

 “Blood Diamond”

 “Flags of Our Fathers”

 “Letters From Iwo Jima”

 “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest”

“I Need to Wake Up” from “An Inconvenient Truth,” Melissa Etheridge

 “Listen” from “Dreamgirls,” Henry Krieger, Scott Cutler and Anne Preven

 “Love You I Do” from “Dreamgirls,” Henry Krieger and Siedah Garrett

 “Our Town” from “Cars,” Randy Newman

 “Patience” from “Dreamgirls,” Henry Krieger and Willie Reale.

“Deliver Us From Evil”

 “An Inconvenient Truth”

 “Iraq in Fragments”

 “Jesus Camp”

 “My Country, My Country”

"Binta and the Great Idea (Binta Y La Gran Idea)

" "Eramos Pocos (One Too Many)"

 "Helmer & Son"

 "The Saviour"

 "West Bank Story."
539 2007-01-23 American Express, the financial and travel services company, reported Monday that stronger holiday shopping and a reduction in bankruptcy write-offs helped lift fourth-quarter profit by 24 percent. The company reported a profit of $922 million, or...
540 2007-01-23 The Nasdaq Stock Market on Tuesday told shareholders of the London Stock Exchange that growth forecasts for the British market are ambitious and warned that customers will demand further price cuts, pressuring earnings. In a letter to the exchange...
541 2007-01-23 Greenlight Capital, the hedge fund, asked Allied Capital in a letter Monday to replace senior managers after the indictment of an executive at an affiliated company. In the letter, Greenlight accused Allied of knowingly making unlawful loans throu...
542 2007-01-23 Small publishers left reeling by the bankruptcy filing of the book wholesaler Advanced Marketing Services last month received a rare bit of good news on Monday. The Perseus Books Group announced that it was offering to acquire the distribution con...
543 2007-01-23 In this lesson, students examine the role played by bacteria in different food products. They then investigate the difference between "regular" yogurt and yogurt supplemented with probiotics and write opinion letters to the Food and Drug Administr...
544 2007-01-23 “I was definitely a big fan of hers, admired the way she played,” Vaidisova said.

There has not been much playing to admire in the past two years; Williams has kept her matches and victories to a minimum. She has not reached a final since winning here in 2005. This is only her second event since September, and she arrived in Melbourne ranked 81st amid considerable skepticism about her fitness and commitment. She had a lengthy off-season, which was disrupted by an emotional trial; she and her father, Richard, were involved in a breach-of-contract lawsuit.

But Williams, despite a nagging cold, is now two victories from a third Australian Open title. She has already guaranteed herself a spot in the top 30 in next week’s rankings. Although Vaidisova should be the fresher player, that was also true of Williams’s four previous seeded victims here: No 27 Mara Santangelo, No. 5 Nadia Petrova, No. 11 Jelena Jankovic and now the 16th-seeded Peer.

“I’m just happy to be out here and competing,” Williams said in her on-court remarks to the crowd at Rod Laver Arena, punctuating her sentences with big sips from her water bottle. “I’m just so excited. Yet another seed!”

This was not nearly the same level of performance as her victory against Jankovic in the fourth round. Williams had 49 unforced errors to 30 winners and put less than 60 percent of her first serves in play against Peer. But she maintained her good habits of serving well under duress and attacking the net effectively.

“I was just feeling bad for her because she was so flat,” said her mother and coach, Oracene Price, of the match’s early stages. “And she was getting down on herself. She didn’t understand why she wasn’t playing better.”

After Peer had clawed back to 4-4 in the third, Williams fell behind, 15-40, on her serve but got back to deuce with consecutive aces. She later saved another in that game with a first serve that Peer could not handle. At 5-5, Williams was down another break point and saved it with a huge first serve and swinging forehand volley that landed on the line.

But Peer, 19, the first Israeli woman to reach this stage of a Grand Slam tournament, held firm on her own serve until the 13th game. Then, at 30-30, Williams nailed a backhand passing shot crosscourt that Peer volleyed long. Peer then missed a backhand on the next point.

“She’s not quite there and still kicking butt,” said Price, who expressed pride and mild surprise at her daughter’s performance here. She added: “She’s enjoying the competition and really wants to get back. Hopefully now she can stay halfway healthy.”

While the women played in the warmth of the Australian summer on Tuesday, the temperature was much different a few hours earlier when the second-seeded Rafael Nadal finally managed to shake free of Andy Murray, a 19-year-old from Scotland, in the most compelling match of the men’s tournament.

For close to four hours in the fourth round, the 15th-seeded Murray and Nadal gave the few thousands fans left in the stands at Rod Laver Arena much more than their money’s worth. They turned terrific shots and lunging gets into the coin of their realm as they tested the limits of each other’s abilities. When this first match between them had finally ended, Nadal was a 6-7 (3), 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1 winner, and the prevailing sentiment was that it had better not be their last meeting.

If this is what the next generation has in store, then tennis is in good hands. For now, Nadal, a left-hander from Spain, has the advantage in terms of achievement, and physical and mental strength.

Nadal, 20, has won the past two French Open titles and 15 other tournaments. He has clearly established himself as the world’s second-best player behind Roger Federer, whom Nadal happens to have beaten six times in nine matches.

If Nadal had not saved all 10 break points he faced in the final two sets, the match could have been very different.

“I think this will be one of those matches I’ll remember the most,” said Nadal, who will face the 10th-seeded Fernando González of Chile in the first Australian Open quarterfinal for both.

González eliminated the fifth-seeded James Blake on Monday, 7-5, 6-4, 7-6 (4). Their fourth-round match could have been more compelling if Blake had not failed to convert on three set points in the opening set with González serving at 4-5, 0-40.

Blake, who swept to a title in Sydney this month and appeared in rare form here in the early rounds, also led by 4-2, 40-0 on his serve in the second set. But González caught him from behind again, defeating Blake for a fourth consecutive time.

“I think that James got a little too angry,” said Patrick McEnroe, the United States Davis Cup captain. “He doesn’t play well when he gets negative. He plays better when he has fun and he’s applauding the other guy’s shots. I think he maybe felt the pressure a little bit. He also played a guy as hot as he was.”

The top-seeded player in the women’s draw, Maria Sharapova, has recovered well after nearly staggering out of the tournament in 110-degree heat in the first round. On Monday night, she had her troubles but defeated a tricky and resurgent Vera Zvonareva of Russia, 7-5, 6-4.

Sharapova is back in the quarterfinals, where she will face the 12th-seeded Anna Chakvetadze.
545 2007-01-23 Mr. Bush said the tax proposal was an attempt to “level the playing field” between Americans buying insurance on their own and the more than 50 percent of Americans who get it through their employers. Democrats, labor unions and some consumer advocates said the proposal would shake the foundations of the nation’s health care system, still largely built around the workplace, and was unlikely to ever become law.

Congressional Democrats described the plan as a middle-class tax increase, more likely to yield partisan warfare than a search for consensus. “It’s difficult to imagine a proposal like this making it through the House or the Senate,” said a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader.

Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said, “I cannot conceive of this as an olive branch, as an attempt to get something done.” Representative Pete D. Stark of California, the Democratic chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said his panel would not consider Mr. Bush’s proposal.

Prospects were less grim for immigration legislation. Mr. Bush renewed his push for a law that would toughen border security, grant legal status to the nation’s 12 million illegal immigrants and create a temporary worker program to ensure a steady flow of foreign workers to businesses.

The proposal, which would also toughen criminal and financial penalties for employers who hire illegal immigrants, has a much stronger chance of passage in a Democratic Congress this year than it did when Republicans were in control, lawmakers of both parties say.

Leading Democrats in the Senate, who have consulted with Mr. Bush in recent weeks, expect to introduce legislation next month. House Democrats expect to follow.

But approval is far from assured. The A.F.L-C.I.O, which is expected to have more leverage in this Congress, is determined to scuttle the temporary worker program, saying it threatens to replace American workers with foreigners. Administration officials emphasized on Tuesday that the program would have to be “truly temporary,” which left some advocates for immigrants concerned that Mr. Bush might oppose a path to permanent residency or citizenship for temporary workers.

And some moderate Democrats, along with conservative Republicans, strongly oppose proposals that would legalize illegal immigrants, saying they amount to an amnesty for lawbreakers.

Still, critics and proponents of the legislation alike agree that this year offers Mr. Bush his best opportunity of building a bipartisan consensus on the issue. His focus on the need for immigrants to assimilate — by learning English and integrating more deeply into American society — may help ease concerns among some conservatives in his base.

Mr. Bush also returned to the signature bipartisan accomplishment of his first term, the No Child Left Behind legislation that requires schools to demonstrate yearly progress in students’ achievements. But he proposed changes that fell short of the ambitious plans his administration has floated over the past year. With Congress scheduled to renew the law this year, the president stepped back from earlier talk of extending its reach into the high school grades, proposing instead to increase federal anti-poverty money and force states to channel more of it to high schools.
546 2007-01-23 When he left the C.I.A. after a decidedly checkered career in 1970, he had become a world-weary cynic. Trading on the thin veneer of his reputation in the clandestine service, he won a job as a $100-a-day “security consultant” at the Nixon White House in 1971.

In that role, he conducted break-ins and burglaries in the name of national security. He drew no distinction between orchestrating a black-bag job at a foreign embassy in Mexico City and wiretapping the Democratic National Committee’s headquarters at the Watergate complex. He recognized no lawful limit on presidential power, convinced that “when the president does it,” as Nixon once said, “that means it is not illegal.” Mr. Hunt and the nation found out otherwise.

Mr. Hunt was intelligent, erudite, suave and loyal to his friends. But the record shows that he mishandled many of the tasks he received from the C.I.A. and the White House. He was “totally self-absorbed, totally amoral, and a danger to himself and anybody around him,” Samuel F. Hart, a retired American Ambassador who first met him in Uruguay in the 1950’s, said in a State Department oral history.

“As far as I could tell, Howard went from one disaster to another,” Mr. Hart said, “until he hit Watergate.”

Everette Howard Hunt, Jr. was born in Hamburg, N.Y., on Oct. 9, 1918, the son of a lawyer and a classically trained pianist who played church organ. He graduated from Brown University in June 1940 and entered the United States Naval Academy as a midshipman in February 1941.

He worked as a wartime intelligence officer in China, a postwar spokesman for the Marshall Plan in Paris and a screenwriter in Hollywood. Warner Brothers had just bought his fourth novel, “Bimini Run,” a thriller set in the Caribbean, when he joined the fledgling C.I.A in April 1949.

Mr. Hunt was immediately assigned to train C.I.A. recruits in political and psychological warfare, fields in which he was a rank amateur, like most of his colleagues. He moved to Mexico City, where he became chief of station in 1950. He brought along another rookie C.I.A. officer, William F. Buckley Jr., later a prominent conservative author and publisher, who became godfather and guardian to the four children of Mr. Hunt and his wife, the former Dorothy L. Wetzel.

In 1954, Mr. Hunt helped plan the covert operation that overthrew the elected president of Guatemala, Jacobo Arbenz. “What we wanted to do was to have a terror campaign,” Mr. Hunt said in a CNN documentary on the cold war, “to terrify Arbenz particularly, to terrify his troops.” Though the operation succeeded, it ushered in 40 years of military repression in Guatemala.

By the time of the coup, Mr. Hunt had been removed from responsibility. He moved on to uneventful stints in Japan and Uruguay. Not until 1960 was Mr. Hunt involved in an operation that changed history.

The C.I.A. had received orders from both President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his successor, President John F. Kennedy, . to overthrow the revolutionary government of Fidel Castro in Cuba. Mr. Hunt’s assignment was to create a provisional Cuban government that would be ready to take power once the C.I.A.’s cadre of Cuban shock troops invaded the island. He fared no better than the paramilitary planners who had vowed to defeat Castro’s 60,000-man army with a 1,500-strong brigade.

The careers of the American intelligence officers who planned and executed the April 1961 Bay of Pigs debacle were damaged or destroyed, as was the C.I.A.’s reputation for derring-do. Mr. Hunt spent most of the 1960’s carrying out desultory propaganda tasks at the agency, among them running news services and subsidizing books that fell stillborn from the press.

He funneled his talent into writing paperback spy novels. His works followed a formula of sex and intrigue but offered flashes of insight. “We become lawless in a struggle for the rule of law — semi-outlaws who risk their lives to put down the savagery of others,” says the author’s alter ego, Peter Ward, in the novel “Hazardous Duty.”

Mr. Hunt retired from the C.I.A. in 1970 and secured a job with an agency-connected public relations firm in Washington. Then, a year later, came a call from the White House. A fellow Brown alumnus, Charles W. Colson, special counsel to President Nixon, hired Mr. Hunt to carry out acts of political warfare. Within weeks, Mr. Hunt was in charge of a subterranean department of dirty tricks.

He went back to C.I.A. headquarters, requesting false identification, a red wig, a voice-altering device and a tiny camera. He then burglarized the Beverly Hills, Calif., office of a psychiatrist treating Daniel Ellsberg, a former national security aide who had leaked a copy of the Pentagon Papers, a classified history of the Vietnam War, to The New York Times. Mr. Hunt was looking for information to discredit Mr. Ellsberg. When the break-in became public knowledge two years later, the federal case against Mr. Ellsberg on charges of leaking classified information was dismissed.

Mr. Hunt, in league with another recently retired C.I.A. officer and four Cuban Bay of Pigs veterans, then led a break-in at the offices of the Democratic National Committee at the Watergate complex to bug the telephone lines. The job was botched, and the team went in again to remove the taps. The burglars were arrested on the night of June 17, 1972. One had Mr. Hunt’s name and a White House telephone number in his address book, a classic failure of espionage tradecraft that proved the first thread of the web that ensnarled the president.

The final blow that drove Mr. Nixon from office was one of the secret White House recordings he made — the “smoking gun” tape — in which he vowed to order the C.I.A. to shut down the federal investigation of the Watergate break-in on spurious national security grounds. By the time Mr. Nixon resigned in August 1974, Mr. Hunt was a federal prisoner.

His life was in ruins: his wife had been killed in a plane crash in 1972, his legal fees approached $1 million, he had suffered a stroke, and whatever illusions he once had that his government would protect him were shattered. Standing before the judge who imprisoned him, he said he was “alone, nearly friendless, ridiculed, disgraced, destroyed as a man.”

Freed from prison as his 60th birthday approached, Mr. Hunt moved to Miami, where he met and married his second wife, Laura, a schoolteacher, and started a second family. Besides his wife, he is survived by the two daughters and two sons from his first marriage: Lisa Hunt, of Las Vegas; Kevan Hunt Spence, of Pioneer, Calif.; Howard St. John Hunt, of Eureka, Calif.; and David Hunt of Los Angeles; two children from his second marriage, Austin and Hollis, both of Miami, and seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.

Mr. Hunt’s last book, “American Spy: My Secret History in the C.I.A., Watergate and Beyond,” written with Greg Aunapu, is to be published on March 16 with a foreword by his old friend, Mr. Buckley.

Late in life, Mr. Hunt said he had no regrets, beyond the Bay of Pigs.
547 2007-01-23 Czech officials confirmed today that the Pentagon was planning to locate the radar system on Czech territory.

“Discussions over an anti-missile-defense system have been taking place since 2002,” said Andrej Cirtek, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry in Prague. “U.S. experts came here last summer to find a possible location to place part of the missile defense system in the country.”

The system, which in theory would intercept incoming missiles, was first proposed by President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s, though it ran into major technical problems and attracted considerable skepticism both from scientific experts and from the public, especially after early tests were found to have been manipulated to conceal or minimize problems.

Development of the system languished in the 1990s, but gained new momentum after the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001.

The Bush administration is requesting $10.4 billion in the next fiscal year for missile defense, the largest single research program in the budget, according to the Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation in Washington. It was not clear how much would be allocated for the installation proposed for Eastern Europe.

Cirtek said the system would help secure the Czech Republic against threats from rogue states, possibly in the Middle East, which “could attack with ballistic missiles.”

“This is a growing threat,” he said.

Czech officials acknowledged that the new government would have a difficult time winning over the public on the issue. According to a recent survey by the Czech Center for Public Opinion Research, 62 percent of respondents opposed allowing the antimissile radar base in their country.

The interceptor site will be built in Poland if the conservative government led by Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski can persuade a skeptical public of its necessity, Polish officials said. Surveys published by the German Marshall Fund have found support among Poles for NATO waning to 48 percent in 2006, down from 64 percent in 2002, largely because of growing opposition to the war in Iraq.

“Our security would increase by having part of the missile system located in Poland,” said Piotr Paszkowski, a spokesman for the Polish Defense Ministry. “The system would also increase the security of other countries.”

The Kremlin objects to the antimissile system, saying it is really directed against Russia. Lt. Gen.Vladimir Popovkin, chief of Russia’s space forces, told Reuters, “The deployment of a radar station in the Czech Republic and a countermissile position in Poland are an obvious threat to us.”

Czech officials said they would consult with Russia about the issue.

The system could be ready to use by 2010, a Czech official said. When it becomes operational, questions will arise about the varying levels of security among the 26 NATO nations, only some of which are taking part.

“If a country was targeted, but is not part of the missile defense structure, would those countries involved in the system defend it?” asked Ian Davis, co-executive of the British American Security Information Council, an independent research institution based in London and Washington.

NATO’s secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, has said that he wanted to avoid a situation where a sophisticated defense system used by some members left others more vulnerable.

“The secretary general has said publicly he wants to ensure that allies have a common approach,,” James Appathurai, a NATO spokesman, said today.

But diplomats said there was little chance either that the United States would give up on the system or that countries like France, Norway, Denmark or Canada would adopt it.
548 2007-01-23 Among the homeowners who will benefit from the settlement are Senator Trent Lott and Representative Gene Taylor, both of whom lost their homes in the storm and were denied payment by State Farm.

Under the agreement, State Farm would pay an initial $130 million and perhaps several hundred million more by the end of the year, depending upon how many policyholders request that their claims be reopened. About 35, 000 homeowners along the Mississippi coast are eligible.

Today’s agreement does not apply to Louisiana, where the destruction was even greater, and where lawyers and insurers say no settlement talks have taken place.

Insurance executives expect other carriers to follow the lead of State Farm in settling lawsuits in Mississippi and permitting policyholders to reopen damage claims. Those settlements could add several hundred million dollars for rebuilding.. Since Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005, companies have paid $5.3 billion for damage to more than 330,000 homes in Mississippi and $10.3 billion for nearly a million homes in Louisiana. But State Farm and other companies balked at paying for the concentration of losses along Mississippi’s Gulf Coast and in New Orleans, contending that their policies did not cover damage from flooding. In many cases, the insurers also argued that their standard coverage against wind damage was nullified for homes that were battered both by surging flood waters and the high winds of the hurricane. Thousands of residents in coastal Mississippi and in New Orleans sued their insurance companies.

Lawyers for the storm victims had worried that the insurance companies would fight every case through the courts and that it would take years to resolve the coverage disputes. But the insurers became tired of being called insensitive and uncaring about the victims of Hurricane Katrina.

In the first jury trial on the hurricane damage a little more than a week ago, Judge Senter said State Farm failed to prove its case and the jury ordered the company to pay $2.5 million in punitive damage to a couple in Biloxi. The judge also awarded the couple the full value of their insurance policy, $223,000. State Farm had maintained it owed them nothing.

“Every insurance company wants to settle these cases as fast as possible,” said the general counsel of another big insurance company shortly before the jury’s decision. “No one in our business likes to hear, over and over, how the big insurance companies are mistreating the poor homeowners.”

Randy J. Maniloff, a lawyer at White & Williams in Philadelphia who represents insurance companies, said bad publicity had been a big factor in State Farm’s decision to settle. “They spent 80 years building up a brand,” he said, “and the adverse publicity from these lawsuits has been clearly doing damage to the brand. It just flies in the face of their portrayal of themselves as good neighbors.”

Indeed, according to people close to the talks, it was State Farm that first suggested settlement talks in a telephone call early last fall to Richard F. Scruggs, who was representing hundreds of storm victims .

Mr. Scruggs, who came to prominence by filing lawsuits against the tobacco industry, worked out the main points of the settlement with State farm lawyers and two weeks ago, he and the company reached an agreement in principle. But the attorney general of Mississippi and George Dale, the Mississippi insurance commissioner, expressed reservations. Both officials, who are up for reelection in the fall, said they wanted to make sure that homeowners got the best possible deal. Mr. Dale said it was also important that any agreement not be overly burdensome for insurance companies. The sticking point in the agreement had been over the framing of a few sentences that would end a criminal investigation by Mr. Hood into State Farm’s handling of the claims after the hurricane. Mr. Hood had convened a grand jury last week that began hearing evidence against State Farm.

State Farm had insisted that Mr. Hood drop the criminal case, which it contended was unjustified. State Farm also demanded that Mr. Hood abandon a civil lawsuit against it and other insurers.

In the agreement, State Farm said it would pay $80 million to settle 640 lawsuits filed by homeowners after Hurricane Katrina and reopen, on the request of homeowners, up to 35,000 other damage claims. The insurance company agreed to pay at least $50 million more on the previously closed claims.

Participants in the talks estimated that, in addition to the $150 million, State Farm could pay another $250 million to $600 million under the terms of the settlement. The participants said State Farm insured about half of the estimated 70,000 homes along the coast whose owners filed claims for damage.

In the settlement of the 640 lawsuits, State Farm agreed to pay the full insured value for 300 homes that were swept away with nothing left behind but concrete slab foundations and tangles of debris. Those homes were insured for $69,700 to $2.34 million. The owners of the other 340 homes, with varying degrees of damage, are to receive an average of $124,400.

In the review of closed claims, homeowners may accept a new offer from State Farm or insist on binding arbitration in hopes of receiving more money. Storm victims are also free to ignore the settlement and file separate lawsuits against State Farm. But few are expected to do so.
549 2007-01-23 Federer has set the bar so high that even straight-set victories can seem deflating if they contain a few too many errant shots or a few too many groans of frustration.

But the ongoing test of a great champion is how his game responds to true pressure, and though Federer has played and won two tiebreakers in Melbourne, it appears that Roddick’s form and the American’s state of mind could make things more interesting for Federer when the two face off for the 14th time on Thursday night.

"I look forward to it," Roddick said. "We’ve done it before. I’m sure we’ll do it again. I feel like I’m in good form. I’d love to see where I match up."

After having to fight his way past former Australian Open champion Marat Safin in the third round in four sets and Mario Ancic in the next round in five sets, Roddick got to conserve some energy on Tuesday as he put close friendship aside for an hour and 27 minutes and overwhelmed his former housemate Mardy Fish 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 and then kept the celebration to a minimum

"You know, it’s always difficult; it’s a weird, weird situation," said Roddick, who made a minuscule four unforced errors in the match. "Being that we’re close, I think it takes away maybe a little of the elation because you’re not really solely focused on your side of the court. Maybe you’re a little more conscious of both sides. It wasn’t a planned reaction not to do anything. It was just kind of what I felt."

A victory over Federer would leave him with no reason to hold back. Theirs, for now, is much more a relationship than a rivalry. Federer has won 12 of their 13 matches, his only loss coming in 2003 in the semifinals of the Masters Series event in Canada when Federer was one victory away from claiming the number one ranking for the first time.

"It was so important for me this experience, this kind of pressure, because never in my life had I handled pressure like this," said Federer, who lost in a third-set tiebreaker. "So I was so disappointed but so happy to have gone through it later on."

By the end of the 2003 season, Roddick had the number one ranking but Federer had begun taking control of the sport, and he has maintained that control for three full seasons, clamping down hard on Roddick in a series of matches in late 2004 and 2005.

But after successfully recruiting all-time great Jimmy Connors to help coach him, Roddick has made changes to his backhand and tactics and, above all, recovered his sense of the possible.

"I’ll be the first to say it was a welcomed change, almost a new life," Roddick said. "Just the way he put things, it just clicked. I don’t know if you can minimize the effect that he’s had on me."

With Connors in his corner, Roddick took a set off Federer in last year’s United States Open final before losing his edge in the fourth. More encouragingly, he held three match points against the Swiss in a round-robin match at the Masters Cup in Shanghai in November before losing, and then beat him in the final of an exhibition tournament in Melbourne before the Australian Open.

Federer looked anything but devastated, which was understandable. An exhibition is just that, but it could not have hurt Roddick’s confidence to get another taste of what it felt like to beat the Swiss.

"Anytime you can get over the hump at all I think it helps you," said John Roddick, who remains his brother’s co-coach. "You’re definitely not going to blow it out of proportion, but definitely, you kind of tuck it away in the back of your head and know you can do it."
550 2007-01-23 In this environment, Iraq’s new government, its fourth in three and a half years, has found it difficult to gain traction. Though disappointing, this should not be a surprise. We should recall that after the liberation of Iraq in 2003, every governmental institution in the country collapsed. A society already traumatized by decades of Saddam’s brutal rule was thrown into complete turmoil, and the effects are still evident throughout the country and in Iraqi society.

Iraq and its new government have been challenged by insurgents, international terrorists, sectarian militias, regional meddling, violent criminals, governmental dysfunction and corruption. Iraq’s security forces and new governmental institutions have struggled in this increasingly threatening environment, and the elections that gave us such hope actually intensified sectarian divisions in the population at the expense of the sense of Iraqi identity. In this exceedingly difficult situation, it has proven very hard for the new government to develop capacity and to address the issues that must be resolved to enable progress.

The escalation of violence in 2006 undermined the coalition strategy and raised the prospect of a failed Iraqi state, an outcome that would be in no group’s interest save that of certain extremist organizations and perhaps states in the region that wish Iraq and the United States ill. In truth, no one can predict the impact of a failed Iraq on regional stability, the international economy, the global war on terror, America’s standing in the world and the lives of the Iraqi people.

In response to the deterioration of the situation in Iraq, a new way ahead was developed and announced earlier this month. With implementation of this approach, the mission of Multinational Force Iraq will be modified, making security of the population, particularly in Baghdad, and in partnership with Iraqi forces, the focus of the military effort.

For a military commander, the term “secure” is a clearly defined doctrinal task, meaning to gain control of an area or terrain feature and to protect it from the enemy. Thus, the tasks will be clear-cut, though difficult. Certainly upcoming operations will be carried out in full partnership with Iraqi forces, with them in the lead whenever possible and with arm’s length when that is not possible. Transition of Iraqi forces and provinces to Iraqi control will continue to feature prominently in the coalition plan, and as recommended by the Iraqi (sic) Study Group, the adviser effort will be substantially reinforced.

The primacy of population security in the capital will mean a greater focus on that task, particularly in the most threatened neighborhoods. This will, of course, require that our unit commanders and their Iraqi counterparts develop a detailed appreciation of the areas in which they will operate, recognizing that they may face a combination of Sunni insurgents, international terrorists, sectarian militias and violent criminals.

Together with Iraqi forces, a persistent presence in these neighborhoods will be essential.

Different approaches will be required in different locations.

Whatever the approach, though, the objective will be to achieve sufficient security to provide the space and time for the Iraqi government to come to grips with the tough decisions its members must make to enable Iraq to move forward. In short, it is not just that there will be additional forces in Baghdad, it is what they will do and how they will do it that is important.

Some of the members of this committee have observed that there is no military solution to the problems of Iraq. They are correct.

Ultimate success in Iraq will be determined by actions in the Iraqi political and economic arenas on such central issues as governance, the amount of power devolved to the provinces and possibly regions, the distribution of oil revenues, national reconciliation and resolution of sectarian differences, and so on. Success will also depend on improvements in the capacity of Iraq’s ministries, in the provision of basic services, in the establishment of the rule of law, and in economic development.

It is, however, exceedingly difficult for the Iraqi government to come to grips with the toughest issues it must resolve while survival is the primary concern of so many in Iraq’s capital. For this reason, military action to improve security, while not wholly sufficient to solve Iraq’s problems, is certainly necessary. And that is why additional U.S. and Iraqi forces are moving to Baghdad.

The way ahead is designed to be a comprehensive approach.

Indeed, the objectives of helping Iraqis increase the capacity of their governmental institutions, putting Iraq’s unemployed to work, and improving the lot and life of Iraqi citizens requires additional resources, many of which will be Iraqi. In carrying out the non-kinetic elements of this strategy, however, our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and civilians downrange must get all the help they can from all the agencies of our government. There is a plan to increase that assistance, and it is hugely important. This clearly is the time for the leaders of all our governmental departments to ask how their agencies can contribute to the endeavor in Iraq, and to provide all the assistance that they can.

Our military is making an enormous commitment in Iraq. We need the rest of the departments to do likewise, to help the Iraqi government get the country and its citizens working, and to use Iraq’s substantial oil revenues for the benefit of all the Iraqi people.

Having described the general approach, I would like to offer a word on expectations. It will take time for the additional forces to flow to Iraq, time for them to gain an understanding of the areas in which they will operate, time to plan with and get to know their Iraqi partners, time to set conditions for the successful conduct of security operations, and of course time to conduct those operations and they to build on what they achieve.

None of this will be rapid. In fact, the way ahead will be neither quick nor easy, and there undoubtedly will be tough days. We face a determined, adaptable, barbaric enemy. He will try to wait us out. In fact, any such endeavor is a test of wills, and there are no guarantees.

The only assurance I can give you is that if confirmed, I will provide Multinational Force Iraq the best leadership and direction I can muster; I will work to ensure unity of effort with the ambassador and our Iraqi and coalition partners; and I will provide my bosses and you with forthright, professional military advice with respect to the missions given to Multinational Force Iraq and the situation on the ground in Iraq.

In that regard, I would welcome opportunities to provide periodic updates to this body. Beyond that, I want to assure you that should I determine that the new strategy cannot succeed, I will provide such an assessment.

If confirmed, this assignment will be my fourth year or longer deployment since the summer of 2001, three of those to Iraq. My family and I understand what our country has asked of its men and women in uniform, and of their families, since 9/11.

In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the American people for their wonderful support in recent years of our men and women in uniform. Tom Brokaw observed to me one day in northern Iraq that those who have served our nation since 9/11 comprise the new “Greatest Generation.” I agree strongly with that observation, and I know the members of this committee do too.

Over the past 15 months, I have been privileged to oversee the organizations that educate our Army’s leaders, draft our doctrine, capture lessons learned and help our units prepare for deployment.

This assignment has provided me a keen awareness of what we’ve asked of our soldiers and of their families.

In view of that, I applaud the recent announcement to expand our country’s ground forces. Our ongoing endeavors in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere are people-intensive, and it is heartening to know that there will be more soldiers and Marines to shoulder the load.

I recognize that deploying more forces to Iraq runs counter to efforts to increase the time at home for our troops between deployments. I share concerns about that.

However, if we are to carry out the Multinational Force Iraq mission in accordance with the new strategy, the additional forces that have been directed to move to Iraq will be essential, as will, again, greatly increased support by our government’s other agencies, additional resources for reconstruction and economic initiatives, and a number of other actions critical to what must be a broad, comprehensive, multifaceted approach to the challenges in Iraq.

Many of the e-mails I’ve received in recent weeks have had as their subject line “Congratulations -- I think.” I understand the message they are conveying. I know how heavy a rucksack I will have to shoulder in Iraq if confirmed. I am willing to take on the position for which I have been nominated because I believe in servings one (sic) nation when asked; I -- because I regard it as a distinct honor to be able to soldier again with those who are part of the brotherhood of the close fight; and because I feel an obligation to help the shab el-Iraqi, the people of Iraq, the vast majority of whom have the same desires of people the world over: security for themselves and their loved ones, satisfaction of their basic needs and an opportunity to better their life.

In closing, the situation in Iraq is dire. The stakes are high.

There are no easy choices. The way ahead will be very hard. Progress will require determination and difficult U.S. and Iraqi actions, especially the latter, as ultimately the outcome will be determined by the Iraqis. But hard is not hopeless, and if confirmed, I pledge to do my utmost to lead our wonderful men and women in uniform and those of our coalition partners in Iraq as we endeavor to help the Iraqis make the most of the opportunity our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have given to them.

Thank you very much.
551 2007-01-23 Mirant acquired the two power plants in 2001, and with them a lawsuit initiated in 1995 by the previous owner that challenged the tax assessments for the two facilities.

The company claimed that the value of the plants was going to decrease substantially because the Public Service Commission was deregulating the industry, and that energy rates would be determined in the marketplace. At the same time the plants, built in the 1970’s, were becoming obsolete.

Most of the settlement cost, $220 million, is owed by the North Rockland School District, with the remainder to be paid by Rockland County, the towns of Haverstraw and Stony Point, and the villages of Haverstraw, which includes Garnerville, and West Haverstraw.

To meet the terms of the settlement, the North Rockland school district is issuing a 30-year bond to pay Mirant approximately $220 million by March 15. In the meantime, the district is operating on an austerity budget. The school superintendent, Brian D. Monahan, said he had recommended that the school board eliminate 30 full-time positions, mostly by attrition, for the 2007 school year, and make cuts in several travel and staff programs.

“This goes to the heart of education funding,” said the county executive, Scott Vanderhoef. “These plants basically were supporting a substantial piece of the funding of this expanding school district.”

Dr. Monahan said he was worried that residents would reject school budgets “for many years to come because of frustration over taxes.”

The affected area is a mix of densely settled villages and industrial sites, wooded suburbs, mobile home parks and housing developments situated in the northern corner of Rockland County, bordered by the Hudson River to the east and Harriman State Park to the west. Haverstraw is set in a valley along the Hudson River below outcroppings of the Palisades escarpment to the south. The river opens up at Haverstraw, where one of the plants, the Bowline oil-powered generating station, is situated. Just to the north is the coal-powered Lovett generating station. The Indian Point nuclear plant is several miles north, on the other side of the river.

The two large chimneys of the brick-and-cement Bowline power plant tower over the village of Haverstraw, where clapboard houses and three-story apartment buildings line the narrow streets.

“I think the communities that host these power plants should have a substantial benefit,” said Mayor Francis J. Wassmer, a lifelong resident. “We see it, we smell it and we hear it. When one of those fuel nozzles breaks it sounds like a jet engine. You also have the fallout, which we have been breathing for 30 years. You can see it on the snow, and when a nozzle breaks you see little black specks on your car.”

Last year, North Rockland’s state representatives arranged a meeting in Albany with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and representatives of the municipalities and school district to discuss a bailout.

“It was in the state’s best interest that the plants be sited where they were sited to give energy to the whole region,” said State Senator Thomas P. Morahan. “We are asking for $8 million to $10 million for approximately 10 years.”

Assemblyman Zebrowski said the legislative leaders indicated that they would try to help and that the school district would be the main beneficiary.

The five municipalities and the school district worked together to negotiate the final settlement with the Mirant Corporation, but that alliance has begun to fray as angry taxpayers demand to know why the energy company was overcharged so much for so long, and why there was no contingency plan.

“People are fed up,” said Jeannie Nicolakis, the owner of Sparky’s Diner for 31 years. “Everybody’s blaming the school district, but it’s not the school’s fault. What happened in the ’90s? All of a sudden we have to pay back $275 million. Who messed up?”

Joan Abrams, a retired office worker who lives in Stony Point, said she was struggling to keep her home.

“My husband built that house, and we raised our two kids there,” she said. ““I’m a widow on a fixed income, and these taxes are really difficult.”
552 2007-01-23 Big-selling drugs introduced by the industry in the 1990s are now losing patent protection, opening them to generic competition. At the same time the pharmaceutical companies have not been able to develop new products quickly enough pace to continue their rapid growth.

Sales forces had also grown in a sort of arms race, often with multiple sales representatives from a single company calling on the same doctor. Ian Read, Pfizer’s president of worldwide pharmaceutical operations, said yesterday that the company was exploring ways to deepen relationships with doctors without bombarding them with sales representatives. “We need to listen and work differently,” he said.

The 600-employee manufacturing plant in Brooklyn is where Pfizer started as a chemical maker in 1849. It will also close a factory in Omaha, eliminating about 25 jobs.

Although three research facilities in Michigan will close, Pfizer said many of those 2,400 or so workers would be moved to other positions. A plant in Germany and research sites in Japan and France are also scheduled to close.

The company also said it would reorganize its sales force and research and development to focus on specific disease categories.

The company did not announce management changes but at least one high-level executive is losing his job. A Pfizer spokesman confirmed that Peter C. Brandt, the 49-year-old executive who headed United States pharmaceutical operations and had been given extra responsibilities as recently as August, would retire because his job was being eliminated by the sales overhaul.

Over all, Pfizer said the moves would save $1.5 billion to $2 billion in yearly expenses, on top of $4 billion in cost reductions the company had previously announced it was trying to achieve by 2008.

The stock slipped by 1 percent yesterday, closing at $26.95. The moves announced yesterday are an effort by Mr. Kindler, a relative newcomer to the pharmaceutical industry, to bolster the earnings of the world’s largest pharmaceutical company.

A lawyer by training, Mr. Kindler came to Pfizer only five years ago and served as general counsel, having worked previously at McDonald’s and General Electric. After being named chief executive last July to replace Hank McKinnell, who was forced to retire early, Mr. Kindler pledged to review all of Pfizer’s operations.

“He’s allowed the company to look at itself with fresh eyes,” said Barbara Ryan, pharmaceutical analyst at Deutsche Bank. “Pfizer was a company that was pretty steeped in its ways.”

Ms. Ryan, whose firm does investment banking for Pfizer, said the plan announced by Pfizer yesterday was a good one, provided it was executed well. However, she added, cost-cutting could go only so far and the company needed to develop new drugs. “They can’t cut their way to prosperity,” she said.

Pfizer executives acknowledged that, saying the company was seeking to develop new drugs. It will concentrate research in four main laboratories, and all research on a particular disease will be located in a single laboratory. That is meant to speed work and eliminate waste, allowing the company to develop more drugs while keeping its research and development budget at $7.5 billion.

Pfizer also said it would seek to license products from smaller companies, or buy such companies, and would move more into the protein-based drugs typically made by biotechnology companies. Pfizer now mainly makes chemical-based pills. Those same strategies are being pursued by virtually all the big pharmaceutical companies, to the extent that the acquisitions of biotech companies are at an all-time high and the prices they are fetching are on the rise.

Pfizer’s announcement came on the same day it announced that its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2006, excluding special items, fell to 43 cents a share, from 49 cents in the same period a year earlier.

The company said that in 2007 and 2008 it expected its revenues to be roughly comparable to the $48.4 billion recorded in 2006. But with the cost cuts, it said, expected earnings would increase 6 percent to 9 percent in each of those years.

Pfizer’s earnings were hurt by the loss of patent protection over the last two years of its antidepressant Zoloft and the antibiotic Zithromax. Sales of both drugs plummeted more than 70 percent in the fourth quarter.

This year Norvasc, a blood pressure and angina drug that had $4.9 billion in sales in 2006, will start losing patent protection. And the biggest blow could come in 2010 or 2011 when the anticholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s biggest-selling drug, begins losing patent protection.

Pfizer suffered a huge blow in December when safety concerns forced it to halt development of torcetrapib, a cardiovascular drug it had considered the most promising experimental drug in its pipeline and a successor to Lipitor.

Sales of Lipitor in 2006 were $12.9 billion, up 6 percent. But in the fourth quarter sales fell 1 percent to $3.34 billion, hurt by the introduction of generic competition to Zocor, a competing cholesterol-lowering pill from Merck. Pfizer said it expected a modest gain for Lipitor this year.
553 2007-01-23 A scathing report from the state’s Public Service Commission about last summer’s electrical blackout in western Queens took some well-deserved shots at Consolidated Edison. The utility certainly failed spectacularly as it left 174,000 people sweltering in the dark for as long as nine days. But the report ignored a critical part of the problem: the commission itself, which has been incompetently monitoring the energy monopoly.

The commission’s draft report correctly blames Con Ed for a performance that was “unacceptable and a gross disservice” to its customers. The utility underestimated the problem and made bad decisions that prolonged the blackout. It compounded its shortcomings when it issued a 600-page report last fall that failed to acknowledge its own errors. For its poor performance, Con Ed should pay a hefty penalty, which should be charged to its shareholders, not its customers.

The bigger picture, though, is that Con Ed could not have been so mismanaged if the Public Service Commission had been doing its job. The commission is supposed to oversee the state’s utilities, but it somehow remained blissfully blasé about the problems in Queens, despite ample warnings. An earlier blackout in Washington Heights in Manhattan prompted Eliot Spitzer, then the state’s attorney general, to identify lurking trouble in the Queens network, where some components dated to the middle 1900s. Service quality reports from Con Ed should also have caused alarm.

The commission’s failure is, sadly, not surprising. The just-departed governor, George Pataki, treated this important body as a collection of plum six-figure sinecures, and he stacked it with cronies ill suited to the job, including, most recently, a former public relations executive, Cheryl Buley, whose husband has been a major Republican donor. Mr. Pataki may also have been trying to slant the commission in favor of the energy industry, which, according to Common Cause, gave him $316,000 in campaign contributions from 1999 to 2006.

The Public Service Commission is badly in need of reform. As governor, Mr. Spitzer now has the opportunity to make his first appointment to the five-member body. He should choose someone qualified and independent, with the determination to fight for safe, reliable and reasonably priced energy.
554 2007-01-23 A business owner from India was sentenced yesterday in Federal District Court to 20 months in prison for helping hundreds of immigrants live and work illegally in the United States, prosecutors said. The businessman, Narendra Mandalapa, 36, must also forfeit $5.7 million and two luxury cars, which were proceeds of his crime, and pay a $25,000 fine, prosecutors said. Mr. Mandalapa was the owner and president of Cybersoftec Inc., a business consulting firm based in Edison. He pleaded guilty to immigration fraud on May 5, admitting that he received up to $22,000 from immigrants to file false documents.
555 2007-01-23 The new Democratic leadership in Congress has a chance to finally do what the Republican Congress and the Bush administration failed to do after Sept. 11: to protect the nation’s chemical plants from an attack. Lawmakers should stop the Homeland Security Department from adopting new regulations that would block state and local governments from doing more to protect their residents and should pass a federal law with teeth.

An attack on a single plant could release deadly chemicals that could put hundreds of thousands of people at risk of death or serious injury. But since Sept. 11, the chemical industry — a major campaign contributor — has managed to ward off any significant new federal rules that might require it to spend money to increase security.

Now it is going a step further by trying to get the federal government to “pre-empt,” or invalidate, state and local efforts to impose safety standards. Supporters of pre-emption always claim that they just want a uniform standard. But in situations like this one — where the federal law is absurdly weak — it is obvious that the real agenda is to block serious safety measures at every level of government.

Congress wisely refused to include a pre-emption provision in legislation it adopted last year. Now, however, the Homeland Security Department has proposed regulations that would give itself the authority to pre-empt state and local laws. If the proposed regulations were adopted, they could wipe away the serious chemical plant security law that New Jersey has passed, and prevent other states and cities from requiring the chemical industry to do more to protect their residents.

It is up to Congress to act. It should block these deeply flawed regulations and move quickly to pass a comprehensive law that imposes tough requirements on chemical plants to harden their facilities.

Last year Congress passed a bad rider, backed by the industry, that gives the chemical industry far too much leeway to decide on its own how its plants are vulnerable and how to protect them. The new law should contain specific requirements for plant safety. It should also require companies to switch to safer chemicals when the cost is not prohibitive, a key safety measure that the industry has resisted. And it should clearly state that federal chemical-plant laws do not pre-empt state and local laws. Congress should finally put the public’s safety ahead of the chemical industry’s bottom line.
556 2007-01-23 The American Express Corporation, the financial and travel services company, reported yesterday that stronger holiday shopping and a reduction in bankruptcy write-offs helped lift fourth-quarter profit by 24 percent.

The company reported a profit of $922 million, or 75 cents a share, for the quarter, compared with $745 million, or 59 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 13 percent, to $7.21 billion from $6.38 billion.

The quarterly results cap a transformative year for American Express, which in 2005 spun off its Ameriprise Financial unit to focus on its card and travel businesses. The chairman and chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, has focused this year on striking deals with banks to issue American Express cards, and on capturing more business from high-spending consumers.

The results follow the same growth seen at American Express’s biggest rivals. JPMorgan Chase & Company, Citigroup, the Capital One Financial Corporation, and Morgan Stanley all reported their card divisions had stronger profit during the fourth quarter.

Part of this was a result of new bankruptcy laws that make it harder for consumers to avoid paying debt. The company, which typically has a lower instance of defaults because its customers tend to be more affluent, set aside $277 million for losses from its credit-card unit, a 4 percent decline from a year earlier.

This helped drive profit significantly higher than the year-ago period. The year-ago results included American Express’s banking business in Brazil, which it sold in the second quarter.
557 2007-01-23 The consolidation of local governing bodies in a state with 566 municipalities, 616 school districts, 486 local authorities and 792 fire districts had long seemed to be an easy and obvious cost-cutting move. Still, the mere existence of so many governmental entities is an obstacle, a sign of the strength of local-control sentiment in the state and of the entrenched nature of the political offices.

Under the measure passed in the Senate, a commission appointed by the governor and legislative leaders would spend two years studying which entities should be merged and which may save money by sharing personnel and resources. The commission’s recommendations, however, would not be carried out unless approved by the voters of affected municipalities.

The intention was to pattern the commission in part on a federal commission that determines the closing of military bases. But New Jersey’s consolidation commission would have less power, since it would first submit recommendations to the governor and Legislature and then to the affected voters.

Some earlier versions of the Senate measure would have given the state commission the authority to compel consolidation. But that proved difficult in a Legislature where many members are also mayors and city council members.

State Senator Bob Smith, a Democrat who represents Somerset and Middlesex Counties, said that by including the requirement to put all recommendations to a vote, the Democratic majority in the Senate had removed a “major impediment” to the bill’s passage. They had also removed penalties in the form of decreases in state aid for localities that ignored clear savings from consolidation and sharing services.

“I believe that with this bill, we will actually stimulate consolidation,” Mr. Smith said.

State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a Republican from Middletown, said that he would have preferred to create a commission that had the ultimate power to order consolidation, believing that the state’s “clamoring for property tax cuts” made this year the right time for such a change.

However, he voted for the watered-down version. “What we end up with is something that puts a spotlight on the issue of consolidation and that is more than we have ever done before,” Mr. Kyrillos said.

Asked what may be ripe for consolidation should the commission pass the Assembly and be signed into law as the governor has vowed, Mr. Kyrillos said that the most obvious target would be “doughnut communities” — municipalities like Princeton Borough and Princeton Township, or Freehold Borough and Freehold Township, where a newer, suburban area has grown around an older, urbanized area.

The other measure that passed the Senate on Monday was a bill that would deny public officials convicted of corruption a portion of their pensions. But in a state where some of the officials who have pleaded guilty to corruption hold more than one public job, the forfeiture of the pension would be restricted to the portion earned in the position where the corruption occurred.

For example, a town councilman who also held a county job in the transportation department and was convicted of selling his council vote for a bribe would still keep the pension from the county job but lose the pension from his council service.

Some members had wanted the forfeiture to be retroactive and to cover all state-administered pensions. Others, like Senator Nick Sacco, opposed the bill and predicted that it would “be an attorney’s dream” and result in costly litigation.
558 2007-01-23 The deal comes at an opportune time for Intel as well. “We’re coming together at a time when both companies have great momentum,” the chief of Intel, Paul S. Otellini, said. “And I’ve always believed that momentum breeds momentum.”

After several quarters of losing market share to Advanced Micro, Intel has been gaining steam, the result of a restructuring and the success of Intel’s new line of processors.

As part of the agreement, Intel is providing an endorsement of Sun’s Solaris operating system, including dedicating development resources to ensure the software runs well on Intel chips.

Last year, Sun made Solaris, long a highly proprietary system, into an open-source program that is available for free, making it a more viable competitor to Microsoft Windows and Linux. Since then, there have been more than seven million downloads of the Sun program, Mr. Schwartz said.

Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Otellini stressed that the deal, which joins two companies that invest heavily in research and development, was a significant technical collaboration, not simply a sales agreement.

It remains unclear just what direct impact the Sun-Intel deal will have on Advanced Micro, though it clearly comes at a bad time for the company, which is set to announce quarterly earnings on Tuesday.

Henri Richard, chief sales and marketing officer at Advanced Micro, moved Monday to deflect concern that Sun’s deal with Intel would hurt the company, which less than two weeks ago issued a warning that it would miss Wall Street’s quarterly earnings targets. Mr. Richard said that the deal would have little impact on Advanced Micro and that the company will continue to be a “strong, strategic supplier” to Sun.

Analysts, however, agreed that the Sun-Intel deal will probably hurt Advanced Micro much more than it will help Intel.

“Up until recently, A.M.D. was consistently gaining share in most all markets, while Intel struggled,” an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, Cody Acree, said in a research note. “Now A.M.D. has missed the last two quarters, Sun appears to be steadily improving, and now Sun is giving Intel obvious market share.”

Advanced Micro shares fell slightly after the deal was reported, declining 20 cents a share to close at $17.53; Intel declined 3 cents a share, to $20.79. Sun declined 2 cents, to $5.75.

Neither Sun nor Intel would discuss the financial impact of the deal, but it is not expected to have a huge impact on Intel’s $35 billion in annual sales. Still, Mr. Otellini said the deal would help Intel expand in certain markets where Solaris has a strong following, most notably financial services and telecommunications.
559 2007-01-23 FRANKFORT, Ky., Jan. 22 (AP) — Fearing a dam break that could cause catastrophic flooding in Kentucky and Tennessee, the Army Corps of Engineers began lowering the water level on Lake Cumberland on Monday.

The measure was intended to reduce pressure on the weakened 240-foot-high Wolf Creek Dam, said Lt. Col. Steven J. Roemhildt, commander of the Nashville office of the Corps of Engineers.

“We must take this emergency action to reduce risk to the public and to the dam itself,” Colonel Roemhildt said in a statement.

Bill Peoples, a spokesman for the Corps of Engineers, said that failure of the dam was not imminent. But Mr. Peoples said evacuation plans should be readied in Nashville and other downstream communities.

Officials in Nashville, with a metropolitan area of 1.4 million people, said that they had a plan in place for any flooding but that any threat would be minimized once the lake’s level was lowered.
560 2007-01-23 “We should get our right in a way that it does not create problems or excuses for others,” he said.

“Besides, is this our only irrefutable right and we have no other rights?” he asked, referring to rising inflation since Mr. Ahmadinejad took office over a year ago.

Ayatollah Montazeri was once in line to become Iran’s supreme religious leader, until he was banished and put under house arrest for his criticisms. His comments reflect the growing concern in Iran over additional economic sanctions if Iran continues to defy the international demand to halt its uranium enrichment program.

The United Nations Security Council passed a resolution on Dec. 23 and imposed sanctions banning the trade of goods related to Iran’s nuclear program. It also gave Iran a deadline of two months to halt its uranium enrichment program or face tougher sanctions.

In response, Parliament passed a bill last month calling for the government to limit its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency.

“The committee has decided to bar 38 inspectors from coming to Iran and we have announced the new limitation to the agency,” said Alaedin Boroujerdi, the head of Parliament’s committee for foreign policy and national security, the ISNA news agency reported.

The nuclear agency’s inspectors visit Iran’s nuclear facilities regularly. But last summer Iran said that it had decided not to let some of the inspectors return.

Still, Mr. Boroujerdi said that Iran planned to continue its cooperation with the agency, and that Iran would remain a party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.

An I.A.E.A. spokeswoman, Melissa Flemming, said that the agency was confident that it could continue to monitor Iran’s nuclear program.

“There are a sufficient number of inspectors designated for Iran, and the I.A.E.A. is able to perform its inspection activities in accordance with Iran’s Comprehensive Safeguard Agreement,” she said in an agency statement.

For his part, Mr. Ahmadinejad vowed again on Sunday that Iran would continue with its nuclear program, and brushed off the United Nations resolution as insignificant.

In Brussels on Monday, European Union foreign ministers called for all countries to enforce the sanctions against Iran. The British foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett, said a collective application of the sanctions was essential “to keep pressure on Iran to accept the offer of the international community to come back to the negotiating table.”

European Union officials said they would apply the measures next month, including a ban on selling materials and technology that could be used in Iran’s nuclear and missile programs and the freezing of the assets of 10 Iranian companies and individuals.

Germany’s foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said it was time to take a tough and united stance on Iran but kept the option of diplomacy open. “There is a need to send a clear signal, and we need to show resolve,” he said.
561 2007-01-23 In all, earnings reports and economic data this year have signaled growth that is cooling, but not so quickly that it is squeezing corporate profits. This would normally be good news for the stock market, but investors have been retreating — wisely, many market watchers say — on signs they may have gotten ahead of themselves late last year, when the Dow Jones industrial average began racing into record territory.

The Dow Jones industrials fell 88.37 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,477.16.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index declined 7.55 points, or 0.53 percent, to 1,422.95, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 20.24 points, or 0.83 percent, to 2,431.07.

The stock indexes rebounded slightly from the session’s lows after crude oil resumed its downtrend, and American Express reported that its profit rose last quarter thanks to robust spending during the holiday season. American Express lost 3 cents, to $58.06.

Consumer spending could be bolstered further by falling fuel costs, as the price of crude oil is 16 percent lower this year. Crude oil for delivery in February fell 86 cents, to settle at $51.13 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after briefly rising above $53.44.

Relief about the decline of oil was not enough yesterday to offset technology-related worries, which were kindled by analyst downgrades of Cisco Systems, the networking equipment maker; Motorola, the cellphone maker; and the computer maker Dell. Cisco fell 17 cents, to $26.53; Motorola slipped 55 cents, to $18.72; and Dell dropped 53 cents, to $24.49.

Despite the market’s recent aversion to technology stocks, the Dow, the S.& P. and the technology-dominated Nasdaq are all still up on the year. Stocks have the potential to rebound, especially as earnings season winds down, Mr. Ranieri said.

A separate worry weighing on the market is interest rates. A report from the Chicago region’s Federal Reserve Bank indicated above-trend growth in December for the first time in four months — yet another argument for Fed policy makers to keep rates steady, or perhaps even increase them.

In the bond market, the price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32, to 9830/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, declined to 4.76 percent, from 4.78 percent.

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auctions for three- and six-month bills:
562 2007-01-23 But it was the smaller independents, especially the clients of Publishers Group West, who appeared most vulnerable. David Steinberger, the president and chief executive of Perseus, said now that Avalon and Grove/Atlantic had signed on, his company intended to reach out to each client of Publishers Group West this week.

“Given the situation that these independent publishers find themselves, in, we’re hopeful that the substantial majority of them see this as the best option,” Mr. Steinberger said. “We’re committed to independent publishing. We really see this as the preferred platform to support independent publishers.”

At Emmis Books in Cincinnati, for instance, a Publishers Group West client that employs four and issues 50 titles a year, Monday’s offer was greeted with relief.

“I think it’s certainly as good an offer as many publishers are going to get,” said Howard Cohen, the publicity director. “Seventy percent of something is better than zero percent of nothing. Now we at least see a way for us to continue, to keep business going, to bring some resolution to this. We’re finding our way out of an ugly situation.”

In addition to the $20 million it could cost Perseus to pay off the debt that the publishers are owed, it will take millions to finance the shipment of those publishers’ books to the Perseus distribution installation in Jackson, Tenn., from that of Publishers Group West in Indianapolis, Mr. Steinberger said.

The money owed to publishers is largely from book sales in the fourth quarter of 2006. Publishers typically ship their books to a distributor, then receive payment within 90 days. The bankruptcy was filed at a particularly painful time for the publishers because October, November and December tend to be the busiest book-buying period of the year.

Also yesterday, a federal bankruptcy court in Delaware rejected a bid by Simon & Schuster to reclaim books in Advanced Marketing Services’ inventory that could be valued at $5 million, a Simon & Schuster spokesman, Adam Rothberg, said. “We made an aggressive move to reclaim the books that were in their possession during the 45-day period before they filed Chapter 11,” Mr. Rothberg said.
563 2007-01-23 Built by the Space Sciences Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, and Swales Aerospace of Beltsville, Md., the satellites aim to establish once and for all where in the magnetosphere substorms originate and what triggers them, said Dr. Vassilis Angelopoulos, a research physicist at the university and the chief scientist for the mission.

“For over 30 years, the source location of these explosive energy releases has been sought after with great fervor,” Dr. Angelopoulos said. “A substorm starts from a single point in space and progresses past the Moon’s orbit within minutes, so a single satellite cannot identify the substorm origin.”

Substorms are a recurring phenomenon that can pop up at any time, even during periods of low solar activity, he said. They appear as well during major storms caused by regular solar eruptions, adding to their destructive power, and a series of substorms happening by themselves can produce enough accumulated energy to cause damage, he said.

Solar storms can damage or disrupt communications and GPS navigation satellites, overload and knock out electric power grids, and pose a radiation danger to astronauts in space, experts said. “Themis is a stepping stone to explain space weather phenomenon that affects our lives,” Dr. Angelopoulos said.

Peter Harvey, project manager for the mission at the university, said the five-satellite constellation is scheduled to be launched aboard a Delta II rocket from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on Feb. 15. Observations from four of the satellites are needed to complete the $200 million mission, and the fifth spacecraft will serve as an in-orbit spare.

The dishwasher-sized satellites are to coast in Earth orbit for 10 months until they line up within Earth’s shadow like a string of beads, with two of the spacecraft positioned about one-sixth of the way to the Moon and the other two about halfway. By February 2008, they will begin collecting coordinated measurements every four days to pinpoint where and when substorms begin.

To get an added dimension to the life cycles of these substorms, the satellite measurements will be coordinated with ground-based readings from 20 observatories spread over Alaska and Canada. These northern observatories are equipped with all-sky cameras and magnetometer sensors that measure currents in near-Earth space.

Dr. Angelopoulos said he expected the satellites to observe more than 30 substorms during the mission’s lifespan and make a major contribution to understanding space physics.

“Themis is so important because the same fundamental physical process is seen around all planets, it happens on the Sun in solar flares, and in astrophysical systems such as black holes,” he said. “It’s amazing that being so close to us, here at Earth, it is not understood yet.”
564 2007-01-23 The risks associated with the growing problem of obesity among young people may be extending to the operating room table.

Researchers at the University of Michigan Health System have found that almost a third of the children who needed surgery there over a four-year period were overweight. Of those, more than half could be considered obese. The study appears in the current Journal of the National Medical Association.

The researchers, led by Dr. Olubukola O. Nafiu, said it was widely accepted among surgeons and anesthesiologists that obese adult patients presented “enormous” challenges. With a threefold increase in weight problems among American children and adolescents over the past three decades, they said, doctors who operate on younger patients are already facing the same issues.

In adult patients, surgery is often complicated by other illnesses brought on by obesity, like diabetes and high blood pressure. “Unfortunately,” the study said, “many of these co-morbidities are becoming prevalent in obese children.”

The extra weight in itself can cause difficulties, including maintaining open air passages for patients who are anesthetized. There is also evidence that in overweight people, surgical wounds are more likely to become infected.

The researchers looked at operations performed on more than 6,000 children at a University of Michigan hospital from 2000 to 2004. Weight problems were found at all ages, but especially when the children were 8 to 12.
565 2007-01-23 “Nobody wants you, but we want you,” Murray Lightburn of the Dears sang on Friday night at Webster Hall, heedless of the contradiction. The Dears have a mission. They are determined to console underdogs and befriend the alienated, and they stayed steadfastly on message throughout their set.

The Dears, from Montreal, understand the pride within self-pity, the feeling of being more sensitive, more noble, more profound and more misjudged than so many contented dullards. With their 2006 album, “Gang of Losers” (Arts and Crafts), and onstage, they zero in on that attitude.

“You and I are on the outside of almost everything,” Mr. Lightburn sang, and it was anything but a plaint.

The Dears hark back to the self-conscious majesty of Britpop. Mr. Lightburn’s voice combines the quivering croon of Morrissey, from the Smiths, with David Bowie huskiness. The songs stoke drama methodically; they announce themselves with stately drumbeats and pop hooks — the two keyboardists, both women, sing a lot of doot-doots and nah-nahs — and climb toward big, blunt choruses, in which Mr. Lightburn might work himself up to a keening falsetto or a raw shout as each song reaches its inexorable payoff.

Every so often, there’s a touch of cabaret theatricality, a nod to the Dears’ professed fondness for the French rocker Serge Gainsbourg. But where Mr. Gainsbourg and Morrissey could be wry as well as morose, the Dears have grown more unambiguous with each of their three albums. That can make songs more telling; “We Can Have It,” stripped of the anachronistic orchestral setting that it had on their 2003 album, “No Cities Left,” became more emphatically disaffected, insisting, “It won’t ever be what we want.”

The Dears’ set at Webster Hall never winked; the closest it came was when Mr. Lightburn greeted applause by saying, “You’re too kind,” and repeatedly insisted, “Really.” The Dears are now on the brink of pop melodrama — the kind that could carry them to arenas full of angst-ridden adolescents, all feeling like outsiders.

The Annuals, from Raleigh, N.C., who shared the bill, were as blithely diffuse as the Dears were focused. In songs from their album, “Be He Me” (Ace Fu), Adam Baker’s lyrics tend to be conundrums: “Should you talk of the son on the run, your tongue will be ripped out by ducklings.”
566 2007-01-23 I occasionally like to feature female business travelers in this column. That’s because there is a difference between men and women (duh), and the travel industry has become acutely aware of it.

There are no good figures on the number of frequent business travelers who are women. Occasionally, you’ll read somewhere the assertion that 40 percent of business travelers are female. But that figure turns out to be based on the number of women who take at least one business trip a year. Most heavy-duty business travelers are male.

But it’s been clear to me, anecdotally, that the number of women who take 20 or more business trips a year is growing substantially. So we’ll be checking in here more often on the female segment of the business travel market. Who do you think is responsible for the revolution that has forced every major hotel chain to substantially upgrade bedding, lighting and bathrooms over the last six years or so?

Women, it seems to me, simply put the puzzles of frequent business travel together with great skill, especially when they also have children at home.

Here’s a tip from Jan Tomlinson, an executive vice president at the Chubb Group who spends half of her time each month traveling around the world: “Never unpack your toiletries. Keep a set of toiletries and cosmetics for home and another for travel.” And another tip: “Don’t fly blind. Check out the political climate of the region and visit tourism Web sites. It may not be safe to jog near your hotel.”

Ms. Norville has cut back on international travel now that she has three children and a job that doesn’t require suddenly dropping everything and flying far away on an hour’s notice. In a phone conversation recently, she was brimming with advice on how to navigate the complexities, including dressing nicely when flying.

Once, she told me, she realized she forgot her passport as she tried to board a flight at Kennedy International Airport to cover a breaking story in Tunisia. She dashed frantically out to the curb where an assistant arrived with the passport, and then ran back to the gate. The jetway door was closed. But through the window she caught the pilot’s eye as he prepared to push back.

“I was jumping up and down, waving the passport and my ticket and alternating with my hands clasped in a prayerful motion,” she said.

“It worked. He had them bring the jetway back and open the door, and I literally leapt on board. Now, this was before 9/11, but even then you weren’t supposed to run up the cabin and hug the pilot, which I did, saying: ‘Oh, thank you so much. You saved my job; you saved my child’s education.’ And he told me, ‘Honey, you were too cute to leave behind.’ ”

She continued, “I was wearing jeans, black cowboy boots, a navy blazer and a white shirt, which was my standard traveling uniform. And as I buckled in, breathless from the running, I thought, you know, you should always try to be too cute to leave behind. Think about that.”

I told her: “I just did. I do have cowboy boots and a white shirt, but I think in the same situation, that plane takes off without me.”
567 2007-01-23 The forearm scars from cutting herself are fading with use of a steroid cream. The evenings are still difficult, Ms. Eicholz said, because she is alone.

“During the day, at work, it is better,” she said. “I never got up for anything in my life that I actually looked forward to. You are not labeled. You are not your diagnosis.”

“If I am identified here, if anything, it is as a good case manager,” she said of her work environment.

For Ms. Eicholz, the less desirable labels “a problem,” “crazy” and “special” began almost at birth. Her biological parents met in a psychiatric hospital on Long Island. Her mother died shortly after Ms. Eicholz was born. At 13 months, she and her older sister were placed in foster care, and both were later adopted by Johanna and Donald Eicholz of Hicksville, on Long Island.

“Nothing made me happy or excited,” she said of her childhood.

Sent to Catholic school, she defied the nuns or fell asleep in class. She was placed in special education classes until the sixth grade, and then transferred to Fork Lane School, a public school in Hicksville.

At the age of 12, she said, she found a feeling of euphoria by cutting herself with a broken piece of glass. She was near the school playground at the time. “It was impulsive,” she said. “There really is no pain associated with it. It was like, ‘Ahh,’ and emotional release.”

A year later she tried to commit suicide by overdosing on 100 Tylenol tablets, she said. Her actions created a deep rift between her and her parents. Following a doctor’s suggestion, they sent her to High Point Hospital, a psychiatric institution in Westchester County, where she lived for three years, starting at 14.

“I can’t describe to you what happened there,” she said. Her complaints to her parents about her life at the hospital, which closed in 1995, fell on deaf ears, Ms. Eicholz said. “I was sick, so no matter what I said — it didn’t matter. They were in denial.”

At 17, she left High Point and enrolled for half a year in Harmony Heights, a residential school for girls in Oyster Bay, on Long Island. After graduation, she moved into an apartment that she paid for through disability assistance and a small inheritance from her mother’s sister. “I could afford it then; rents weren’t so high as they are now,” she said.

After Ms. Eicholz turned 18, she said, she attempted suicide again. “I was in the hospital most of the time,” she said of the five years after leaving High Point. “When I didn’t know how to deal with something, the cutting got really bad,” she said.

On good days, she attended classes. She enrolled in various community colleges on Long Island but rarely finished. “I couldn’t function,” she said. “I didn’t have the skills.”

At 24 she entered an outpatient treatment program at North Shore University Hospital. “It gave me structure,” she said. There, her skills in advocacy developed, and then she learned that there was a job available at Federation Employment and Guidance Service.

The job was developed around her interests, and it has ended a destructive cycle, Ms. Eicholz said. “It was a life saver,” she said. The $600-a-month salary enables her to afford a $210 a month subsidized one-bedroom apartment in Old Bethpage, on Long Island, $150 for car insurance, and monthly payments to her parents for her white ’96 Chrysler Sebring.

She calls the car a godsend because it gets her to work, which she loves. But when its water pump sprang a leak last year, it was out of commission.

“I lost it psychologically,” Ms. Eicholz said. Losing the freedom that the car gave her, she said, brought up feelings she experienced while she was hospitalized. “I felt trapped and powerless,” she said. She confided in Holly Beck, her work supervisor, who drew $765.05 from the Neediest Cases Fund to have the car repaired.

“I was relieved,” Ms. Eicholz said. “Without having a financial foundation, there is always a sense of fear, like you don’t know what is going to happen.”
568 2007-01-23 SELLING THE STATE LOTTERY Illinois took steps to sell its state lottery for as much as $10 billion to investors. In return, the buyers would operate the lottery and receive all revenues and profits for 75 years. [Page A1]    PFIZER CUTTING PLANTS ...
569 2007-01-23 McCALLION--Donald G. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Donald G. McCallion, a Veteran member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smit...
570 2007-01-23 The risks associated with the growing problem of obesity among young people may be extending to the operating room table.     Researchers at the University of Michigan Health System have found that almost a third of the children who needed surgery...
571 2007-01-23 MELBOURNE -- Roger Federer was sitting comfortably, legs crossed, after vanquishing Tommy Robredo in less style than usual in the quarter final round of the Australian Open Tuesday. He was talking just a little wistfully about how great it had bee...
572 2007-01-23 The pain weighs heavily on her. It always has. ''I was depressed from very, very young,'' said Heather Eicholz, a case manager at a social service agency on Long Island.      At 29, she is the closest she has ever been to happiness since receiving...
573 2007-01-23 The British Broadcasting Corporation said that it was in discussions with Google about putting some of the BBC's programming on the online video site YouTube. A BBC spokeswoman confirmed the talks but said a deal had not been signed. YouTube, whic...
574 2007-01-24 Cisco responds to questions about its absence from a new union of technology companies, human rights groups and academics seeking to develop protocols for doing business in countries where human rights don't enjoy full protections......
575 2007-01-24 The Tokyo and New York stock exchanges are in the final stages of alliance talks and may come to an agreement as soon as the end of the month, the head of the Tokyo exchange told The Wall Street Journal. Taizo Nishimuro, president of the Tokyo Sto...
576 2007-01-24 Microsoft seeks to hire third party to edit Wikipedia entries it doesn't like......
577 2007-01-24 Internet Capital Group, whose market value eclipsed that of General Motors during the dot-com boom, may face a proxy fight with an activist hedge fund that is taking issue with company's management. Mason Capital Management, a New York-based hedge...
578 2007-01-24 The Nazis ruled Germany for 12 years and inflicted their cruelty on other European nations for around 7. Coming to terms with what Hitler and his followers did has been a much longer project — involving Jews, Germans, other Europeans and just about everyone else in the world — and it is unlikely to end anytime soon. Like many other films and books, “2 or 3 Things I Know About Him,” a new documentary directed by Malte Ludin, examines the impact of Nazism on a single family, in this case the family of a high-ranking member of Hitler’s government. But if it tells, in Mr. Ludin’s words, “a typical German story,” the movie also offers an unusually matter-of-fact picture of the private and public effects of ordinary evil.

The filmmaker’s father, Hanns Ludin, who served as the Third Reich’s ambassador to the Nazi vassal state of Slovakia, and who in that capacity signed deportation orders sending thousands of Jews to Auschwitz, was executed for war crimes in 1947. He left behind a wife, Erla, and six children.

Malte, the youngest (born in 1942), waited until his mother died before embarking on this film, though it includes earlier interviews he did with her. The title, apart from its distracting and irrelevant nod in the direction of Jean-Luc Godard, suggests that Hanns Ludin remains, in his son’s eyes, a mysterious, unknowable figure, and the younger Mr. Ludin’s interviews with other family members contribute to the blurriness of the picture.

Archival photographs and film clips of the father show a stout, smiling fellow, in and out of uniform, and Malte Ludin’s surviving sisters recall him with some fondness. One sister, Barbel, emerges as her father’s staunch defender, and the most wrenching scenes in the film show her and Malte Ludin on screen together, arguing doggedly about the nuances of guilt, responsibility and shame.

Barbel insists that she feels none herself, and furthermore tries to mitigate the portrait of her father as a heartless monster. She resorts to some familiar rationalizations — that he couldn’t have known the full truth about Auschwitz; that he tried to resist or subvert the most inhumane Nazi policies; that many slaughtered by the Nazis should be thought of as casualties of war who got what was coming to them — which all bolster her conviction that Hanns Ludin was, in the end, a victim.

This startling conclusion is not altogether unheard of in postwar Germany. The idea that the German people were the victims of Hitler’s madness rather than its sponsors has proven durable and convenient in that nation’s postwar culture. Mr. Ludin’s anxious, questioning, self-lacerating inquiry represents a powerful countertendency toward full acknowledgment of shared culpability, and his quarrel with Barbel is part of what makes this “a typical German story.”
579 2007-01-24 Those levels are still far from a year ago, when eBay’s shares were trading above $44. Since then, the stock has been battered by investors nervous about increased competition from companies like Google and challenges like combating fraud on the auction site and integrating the expensive acquisition of Internet calling service Skype.

The company achieved good growth in its two ancillary businesses. PayPal, its online payments subsidiary, earned $417 million in net revenue, a growth rate of 37 percent over the comparable period last year.

Skype, which the company bought for $2.6 billion in 2005, now has 171 million registered users worldwide, a 129 percent increase from the end of 2005. Skype recently announced an unlimited calling plan; subscribers in the United States or Canada can pay an annual fee of $30 and make unlimited calls to mobile phones and regular land lines (calls to other Skype-enabled computers are free).

EBay’s earnings report comes at a time of increasing doubt on Wall Street that it can keep pace with rivals. Analysts point out that the growth of active eBay users in its largest markets, including the United States, has slowed. All told in 2005, the company had 81.8 million active users worldwide — a 14 percent increase from 2005, but significantly down from the astronomical growth rates earlier in the decade.

Google in particular poses a growing threat to eBay. Last year, the search company introduced Google Checkout, a payment tool that will compete with eBay’s PayPal, and earlier this month it began promoting the service aggressively on its home page.

Analysts also worry that shoppers and buyers will simply turn to search engines to find each other, and not closed services like eBay’s auction marketplace. “People are simply not as interested as they were to go to auctions for online shopping,” said Safa Rashtchy, senior Internet analyst at Piper Jaffray & Company. “EBay is facing a fundamental change in consumer behavior.”

EBay has also run into trouble abroad. Last month, it shuttered its ailing China site and invested $40 million in a joint partnership with the Chinese company Tom Online, which will run the new operation.

Discussing her goals for the year in an interview, Ms. Whitman said the company would continue to focus on improving the user experience, even on the popular Skype. “Even though Skype is growing like a weed, we think it can be easier and simpler to use,” she said.

Ms. Whitman also said this would be a big year for advertising on eBay. The company began testing Yahoo graphical ads on its American site at the end of last year, and later this year it will begin serving Google ads on its international sites. In both partnerships, eBay will share advertising revenue with the search companies.

Referencing the company’s recent moves to combat fraud, like increasing the amount it refunds to defrauded buyers, Ms. Whitman added that the company is “doubling down on trust and safety.”
580 2007-01-24 Wendy’s International is unexpectedly changing advertising agencies after working since August 2002 with two New York agencies that are part of the McCann Erickson Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Wendy’s spends about $300 million a year on local and national advertising.

Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, becomes the lead creative agency, replacing McCann Erickson Worldwide, which created national campaigns with spending estimated at $225 million. Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of MDC Partners, will work on creative projects, a new assignment.

The media planning and buying parts of the account are being shifted to MediaVest in New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of Publicis, from Universal McCann.

Since 2005, when Wendy’s began to struggle with a sales slump, there had been speculation the company was seeking to change agencies. A sales rebound in the fourth quarter of 2006 dampened that speculation.

“Now that a turnaround has taken place in our business, we believe the timing is right to seek new resources to take our advertising efforts to the next level,” Ian Rowden, chief marketing officer at Wendy’s in Dublin, Ohio, said in a statement this afternoon.

A campaign to replace the McCann Erickson work is expected in the spring. Wendy’s is the third-largest fast-food chain, behind McDonald’s and Burger King.
581 2007-01-24 WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 -- Prospects for an increase in the minimum wage suffered a setback today in the Senate, where a move fell short, at least for now, to raise the minimum by $2.10 an hour without tax breaks for small businesses

The 54 “yes” votes were six short of the number needed to shut off debate and move on to consideration of the bill, which easily passed in the House two week ago. That bill would increase the wage to $7.25 from the current $5.15 in three steps, but without tax breaks. Today’s vote, while disappointing to those who want to raise the minimum wage at once and with no accompanying tax provisions, was hardly a surprise. A substantial number of senators had indicated they wanted to tie a wage increase to tax breaks for small businesses, to help offset the costs of the increase.

Next, the Senate will debate what kind of tax breaks to attach to a wage increase. Then, the Senate will have to agree with the House. President Bush has signaled that he would sign a bill providing for a wage increase with related tax breaks.

All 43 “no” votes on the motion to end debate were cast by Republicans. Five Republicans joined 47 Democrats and two independents in voting “yes.” They were Norm Coleman of Minnesota, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, John W. Warner of Virginia and Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, both of Maine. (Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, and Senators Tom Carper of Delaware and Tim Johnson of South Dakota, both Democrats, did not vote.)

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, expressed disappointment over the Senate vote. “Our colleagues in the House came together -- Democrats and Republicans -- and they passed a minimum wage bill with no strings attached,” he said.

Low-wage workers “deserved the same respect from the Senate,” Mr. Kennedy said. “We should have passed this bill today and put it before the president for his signature this afternoon. We will not rest until we do right by working families.”
582 2007-01-24 Sharapov’s gesticulations resulted in a warning for illegal coaching midway through the second set as his daughter served at 3-3, 0-30. Sharapov kept his arms folded across his chest for much of the uneven tennis that remained.

Sharapova’s 7-6 (5), 7-5 victory required 2 hours 14 minutes — 11 minutes more than Clijsters’s three-set victory — as the 12th-seeded Chakvetadze kept alternating the sublime (her two-handed backhand) and the ridiculous (a second serve that bounced well before hitting the net in the final set).

“Sometimes I feel I don’t know if she knows what she’s doing,” Sharapova said. “She definitely has a lot of variety. If she wants to step in, she has a lot of power behind her strokes. But over all, at the end of the day, it’s just about who took the chances a little more.”

That has been Sharapova’s trademark throughout her career, and it does indeed take preternatural self-confidence to keep taking huge cuts at returns when the results have generally been unsatisfactory.

“She is stronger,” said Chakvetadze, a fast-rising blond Muscovite who, at 19, is the same age as Sharapova. “She’s a great fighter. I think she deserves this win.”

But even Sharapova conceded that she will probably have to raise her level if she is to break through to her first Australian Open final. She has come close the last two years, losing to Serena Williams in the 2005 semifinals despite holding three match points and then losing to Justine Henin-Hardenne last year in the same round in a three-set match.

Both Williams and Henin-Hardenne went on to win the title. Williams is still in contention here despite being unseeded. She will face Nicole Vaidisova, a 17-year-old Czech, in Thursday’s semifinal in the bottom half of the draw.

Henin-Hardenne withdrew from the tournament for personal reasons. On Wednesday, a posting on her Web site confirmed that she and her husband of five years, Pierre-Yves Hardenne, were separating.

“These last weeks have not been easy for me or my entourage,” she wrote. The Web site’s name has already been changed from heninhardenne.be to justine-henin.be.

It has been an unusual tournament from the start for Sharapova, who was two points from defeat against the underpowered Camille Pin of France in the first round as temperatures soared well above 100 degrees on court and left Sharapova sluggish and disoriented. Even without being in top form, she has recovered well enough not to drop another set.

Yet she needed more than two hours to beat Vera Zvonareva, 7-5, 6-4, in a night match on Monday in the fourth round. Both Zvonareva and Chakvetadze play terrific defense and are capable of handling Sharapova’s power from the baseline.

“You know, it’s tough to be aggressive because Maria, she’s hitting the ball so hard,” Chakvetadze said. “Especially in the warm-up, I thought she would kill me.”

But once the rallies began in earnest, Chakvetadze held her own. When Sharapova double-faulted to lose her serve and fall behind, 2-4, it appeared that Chakvetadze might do more than that.

But Chakvetadze responded to success by double-faulting herself to lose her serve in the next game, only to have Sharapova do the same again to lose hers.

So it went into the tie breaker, with neither player winning a point on serve until Sharapova managed it at 4-4. On the next point, Chakvetadze glided forward to hit a short forehand and guided it wide.

The set would soon be over, and Chakvetadze’s forehand would prove to be vulnerable shot throughout the rest of the match. It did not help her cause that she waited until after the first set to receive treatment for a strained right shoulder.

“I definitely should have called the trainer earlier,” she said.

Sharapova received treatment on court for a blister on her left foot in the second set after taking a 4-3 lead in the game in which she received the coaching warning. Sharapov gestured as if he were hitting a forehand from the stands as she fell behind in the game.

The coaching issue is a sensitive one with Sharapova. “I asked the umpire if it was in between those two points, because between those two points, I didn’t see anything or even look at him,” she said.

Sharapov was not the only father/coach in an agitated mood on Wednesday. Chakvetadze’s father/coach, Djambuli, also did little to disguise his mood swings in a different section of the stands.

“It’s normal,” Sharapova said. “I’ve been with my dad every single day, and I’m sure Anna has, as well. They’re both animated. Both want you to win, and they’re really excited for the opportunities you have.”
583 2007-01-24 Last week, in a session sponsored by the League of Municipalities, Mr. Corzine defended a 4 percent limit on annual increases in revenues from local property taxes, saying that local governments needed to find alternative sources of revenue. But by the end of the session, after several mayors complained, he warmed to the notion of allowing exemptions and waivers in some cases.

In the measure to be introduced on Thursday by the Senate president, Richard J. Codey, money set aside to cover uncollected property taxes, revenue realized from new properties on the tax rolls, a small portion of pension costs and increases in health benefits are automatically exempted.

In addition, school districts would be allowed automatic adjustments for debt service, a portion of the costs associated with increased enrollment or the opening of a new school as well as capital outlays. The school districts would also be allowed adjustments for debt service and emergencies.

The measure would also allow local governments to apply each year to the Local Finance Board or the state commissioner of education for waivers from the 4 percent cap for extraordinary circumstances like a loss of state aid, the sudden infusion of nonrecurring revenue, one-time emergency spending for “health, safety and the public welfare,” and cost increases resulting from mandated spending and increases in energy costs above the cap level and in equipment leases.

The decisions of the finance board and the commissioner could not be appealed.

Lou Neely, the finance director of East Brunswick, who is also the expert on property tax reform for the state League of Municipalities, called the proposed property tax measure a grab bag.

Mr. Neely said that many of the exemptions made sense, although he added that they would slow any immediate benefits to taxpayers. He said the state would be flooded with waiver requests from municipalities and school districts without a mechanism to handle them. After all, he said, “when you are hungry and somebody throws you a crumb, you grab it.”

Local officials complained that the legislation did nothing to mitigate the costs of awards in binding arbitrations, which occur after municipalities and unions reach an impasse in labor negotiations. Localities would be required under the bill to pay the costs associated with these awards regardless of the 4 percent cap on local property taxes.

Mr. Neely and other officials wanted either a state-ordered limitation on the awards, or a provision in the bill to exempt the awards from these caps. Without such an exemption, he said, money would have to be diverted from other items financed from the property tax to pay for these awards. The proposed legislation admonishes arbitrators to “consider as a primary factor in their awards” the effect on tax levy limitations. Similarly, it addresses increases in employee health costs faced by local governments, and encourages local officials to renegotiate contracts.

Mr. Neely said that the “state has precluded us from reopening contracts in the past, and it is nice that they are now letting us do it.”

“But,” he added, “they ought to say to arbitrators that this is a hard cap and you can’t grant awards over it.”

Still, most local officials conceded that the measure would be approved.

Mayor Gary Passanante of Somerdale said property taxes would not ease up any time soon, primarily because they account for about 46 percent of local budgets, more than the national average of 30 percent.

Borrowing phrasing frequently used by Governor Corzine, Mr. Passanante said: “Our benchmark for accomplishing reform that is for the common good is doing something that gets us closer to the national average of 30 percent. But nothing in the governor’s package does this.”
584 2007-01-24 The United Nations Security Council voted to set up a mission to oversee a disarmament and cease-fire accord between the government and former Maoist rebels and plan elections of a constitutional assembly in June. The vote creates a force of military monitors, police and civil administration teams and poll watchers, which was requested by each sides and will last a year.
585 2007-01-24 The United States will start formal negotiations this year with Poland and the Czech Republic on deploying ground-based antimissile defense systems in the countries, government officials said. The decision was made despite weak public support in each country and strong opposition from Russia. The United States says the system is intended as protection against a possible attack from the Middle East, not Russia.
586 2007-01-24 A federal judge dismissed a freedom-of-speech lawsuit by members of a conservative Christian group who were arrested while picketing a street festival for gay men and lesbians. “There is no constitutional right to drown out the speech of another person,” the judge, Lawrence F. Stengel of Federal District Court, wrote. Organizers of the 2004 festival initially tried to block the bullhorn-wielding, antigay protesters from entering the event. The police allowed them to enter, but they were surrounded by gay activists blowing whistles. Eleven demonstrators were arrested after they refused a directive to move to another spot.
587 2007-01-24 When he left the C.I.A. in 1970 after a decidedly checkered career, he had become a world-weary cynic. Trading on the thin veneer of a reputation in the clandestine service, he won a job as a $100-a-day “security consultant” at the Nixon White House in 1971.

In that role, he conducted break-ins and burglaries in the name of national security. He drew no distinction between orchestrating a black-bag job at a foreign embassy in Mexico City and wiretapping the Democratic National Committee’s headquarters at the Watergate complex. He recognized no lawful limit on presidential power, convinced that “when the president does it,” as Nixon once said, “that means it is not illegal.” Mr. Hunt and the nation found out otherwise.

Mr. Hunt was intelligent, erudite, suave and loyal to his friends. But the record shows that he mishandled many of the tasks he received from the C.I.A. and the White House. He was “totally self-absorbed, totally amoral and a danger to himself and anybody around him,” Samuel F. Hart, a retired United States ambassador who first met him in Uruguay in the 1950s, said in a State Department oral history.

“As far as I could tell, Howard went from one disaster to another,” Mr. Hart said, “until he hit Watergate.”

Everette Howard Hunt Jr. was born in Hamburg, N.Y., on Oct. 9, 1918, the son of a lawyer and a classically trained pianist who played church organ. He graduated from Brown University in June 1940 and entered the United States Naval Academy as a midshipman in February 1941.

He worked as a wartime intelligence officer in China, a postwar spokesman for the Marshall Plan in Paris and a screenwriter in Hollywood. Warner Brothers had just bought his fourth novel, “Bimini Run,” a thriller set in the Caribbean, when he joined the fledgling C.I.A. in April 1949.

Mr. Hunt was immediately assigned to train C.I.A. recruits in political and psychological warfare, fields in which he was a rank amateur, like most of his colleagues. He moved to Mexico City, where he became chief of station in 1950. He brought along another rookie C.I.A. officer, William F. Buckley Jr., later a prominent conservative author and publisher, who became godfather and guardian to the four children of Mr. Hunt and his wife, the former Dorothy L. Wetzel.

In 1954, Mr. Hunt helped plan the covert operation that overthrew the elected president of Guatemala, Jacobo Arbenz. “What we wanted to do was to have a terror campaign,” Mr. Hunt said in a CNN documentary on the cold war, “to terrify Arbenz particularly, to terrify his troops.” Though the operation succeeded, it ushered in 40 years of military repression in Guatemala.

By the time of the coup, Mr. Hunt had been removed from responsibility. He moved on to uneventful stints in Japan and Uruguay. Not until 1960 was Mr. Hunt involved in an operation that changed history.

The C.I.A. had received orders from both President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his successor, President John F. Kennedy, to alter or abolish the revolutionary government of Fidel Castro in Cuba. Mr. Hunt’s assignment was to create a provisional Cuban government that would be ready to take power once the C.I.A.’s cadre of Cuban shock troops invaded the island. He fared no better than the paramilitary planners who had vowed to defeat Mr. Castro’s 60,000-man army with a 1,500-strong brigade.

The careers of the American intelligence officers who planned and executed the Bay of Pigs debacle in April 1961 were damaged or destroyed, as was the C.I.A.’s reputation for derring-do. Mr. Hunt spent most of the 1960s carrying out desultory propaganda tasks at the agency, among them running news services and subsidizing books that fell stillborn from the press.

He funneled his talent into writing paperback spy novels. His works followed a formula of sex and intrigue but offered flashes of insight. “We become lawless in a struggle for the rule of law — semi-outlaws who risk their lives to put down the savagery of others,” says the author’s alter ego, Peter Ward, in the novel “Hazardous Duty.”

He retired from the C.I.A. in 1970 and secured a job with an agency-connected public relations firm in Washington. Then, a year later, came a call from the White House. A fellow Brown alumnus, Charles W. Colson, special counsel to President Nixon, hired Mr. Hunt to carry out acts of political warfare. Within weeks, Mr. Hunt was in charge of a subterranean department of dirty tricks.

He went back to C.I.A. headquarters, requesting false identification, a red wig, a voice-altering device and a tiny camera. He then burglarized the Beverly Hills office of a psychiatrist treating Dr. Daniel J. Ellsberg, a former national-security aide who had leaked a copy of the Pentagon Papers, a classified history of the Vietnam War, to The New York Times. Mr. Hunt was looking for information to discredit Mr. Ellsberg. When the break-in became public knowledge two years later, the federal case against Mr. Ellsberg on charges of leaking classified information was dismissed.

Mr. Hunt, in league with another recently retired C.I.A. officer and four Cuban Bay of Pigs veterans, then led a break-in at the offices of the Democratic National Committee at the Watergate complex to bug the telephone lines. The job was botched, and the team went in again to remove the taps. The burglars were arrested on the night of June 17, 1972. One had Mr. Hunt’s name and a White House telephone number in his address book, a classic failure of espionage tradecraft that proved the first thread of the web that ensnarled the president.

The final blow that drove Nixon from office was one of the secret White House recordings he made — the “smoking gun” tape — in which he vowed to order the C.I.A. to shut down the federal investigation of the Watergate break-in on spurious national-security grounds. By the time Nixon resigned in August 1974, Mr. Hunt was a federal prisoner.

His life was in ruins: his wife had been killed in a plane crash in 1972, his legal fees approached $1 million, he had suffered a stroke, and whatever illusions he once had that his government would protect him were shattered. Standing before the judge who imprisoned him, he said he was “alone, nearly friendless, ridiculed, disgraced, destroyed as a man.”

Freed from prison just before his 60th birthday, Mr. Hunt moved to Miami, where he met and married his second wife, Laura, a schoolteacher, and started a second family. Besides his wife, he is survived by the two daughters and two sons from his first marriage: Lisa Hunt of Las Vegas, Kevan Hunt Spence of Pioneer, Calif., Howard St. John Hunt of Eureka, Calif., and David Hunt of Los Angeles; two children from his second marriage, Austin and Hollis, both of Miami; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

Mr. Hunt’s last book, “American Spy: My Secret History in the C.I.A., Watergate and Beyond,” written with Greg Aunapu, is to be published on March 16 with a foreword by his old friend William F. Buckley Jr.

Late in life, he said he had no regrets, beyond the Bay of Pigs.
588 2007-01-24 She will be the women’s favorite at the start of Thursday’s short program, most likely vying for the title with Emily Hughes, who eventually took Kwan’s place in the Turin Olympics and was another skater who overshadowed Meissner.

If last year marked the end of Kwan’s career — she has not officially retired, but is not competing this season — it also launched Meissner’s. She burst into the sport’s consciousness two years ago when she became the first woman since Tonya Harding in 1993 to land a triple axel. Meissner has not landed one since, but she has quietly gone about polishing the artistry of her programs to match the majesty of her jumps.

“I’ve probably matured a little bit,” Meissner said. “I’m doing my normal triple-triples. I can take on the biggest pieces of music, do different styles. I want to make everything in my program bigger.”

With the glamorous Cohen taking a hiatus from competition, Meissner and Hughes give the top of the women’s field a distinctly girl-next-door flavor. Meissner and Hughes are public-school students with a lot of regular-kid interests to go with their top-level skating.

Hughes, who finished seventh in the Olympics and eighth in the world championships at age 17, was trying to write a second chapter in the Hughes Olympic story, after her older sister Sarah’s gold-medal performance in 2002.

So far this season, Hughes has finished as high as third, in the Cup of China. Meissner finished second and third in her two international competitions, Skate America and Trophée Eric Bompard.

Meissner called the past year a whirlwind and said she still had not gotten used to people recognizing her. She said she was floored when her local phonebook arrived with her picture on the cover.

“Now when I go to look up a number, I have to look at my picture,” she said, laughing. “It’s different, but it’s something I definitely enjoy.”

The biggest question mark in the pairs competition, which begins tonight with the short program, is how well John Baldwin will recover from injuries he sustained in a severe beating.

Baldwin and his partner, Rena Inoue, are defending champions at the nationals, and they landed the first throw triple axel in the competition.

They were unsure they could even compete here after Baldwin said he was kidnapped, robbed and beaten while in St. Petersburg, Russia, for a competition in December. He was left with a concussion and vertigo.

“Thank goodness for skating to help me get through some of the ordeal,” Baldwin wrote in an entry on the pair’s Web site; he added that they resumed training only two weeks ago. “Our skating is going well and we’re performing the throw triple axel every day. I am getting better each day physically and emotionally.”

The men’s field will again be led by Johnny Weir, the three-time national champion, who will probably vie with Evan Lysacek for the title.

And the ice-dancing competition will showcase Tanith Belbin and Ben Agosto, the three-time national champions whose silver medal in the 2006 Games was the first Olympic medal by an American dance team in 30 years.
589 2007-01-24 Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has recently taken steps to sell the biggest division of his consulting business as he considers running for the presidency, according to a person with detailed knowledge of the firm’s plans.

The sale of the division, Giuliani Capital Advisors, a boutique investment bank, is being pursued to prevent its clients’ activities from being used against Mr. Giuliani in a heated political campaign, said that person, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity.

The same could be said about Giuliani Partners’ clients, which have included companies embroiled in accounting scandals, and about Bracewell & Giuliani, a Houston law firm that Mr. Giuliani joined in 2005 that represents energy producers often accused of being major polluters.

The possible sale, first reported yesterday by The New York Post, is one more indication that Mr. Giuliani is moving toward running for president. Mr. Giuliani has put off moving from an exploratory phase to formally announcing his candidacy. Aides have recently said a decision could be months away. Mr. Giuliani declined to comment, a spokeswoman for him said.

Joseph Mercurio, a political consultant, said he believed that Mr. Giuliani was heading toward a run, but he said that the moves on the corporate front did not relieve his more immediate difficulty: that his support of abortion rights, gay civil unions and gun control would be likely to trouble core voters in a Republican primary.
590 2007-01-24 A computer virus caused delays at motor vehicle agencies and service centers yesterday but was fixed by 2 p.m., said Mike Horan, a spokesman for the State Motor Vehicle Commission. The virus was first detected last week in computerized driver license testing and also impaired digital license processing at some agencies, he said. Paper tests were used instead of computerized ones while the problem persisted, Mr. Horan said, adding that personal information was not at risk. Compiled by John Sullivan
591 2007-01-24 Shares rose moderately yesterday as crude oil surged more than $2 a barrel, setting off a rally among energy producers and as a series of positive earnings reports helped restore investor optimism.

Energy prices spiked after Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy, said the United States would double the size of the nation’s strategic petroleum reserve. Prices were already rising as a cold snap in the Northeast was expected to increase demand for heating fuel in the region.

Exxon Mobil led blue chips and was among the Dow Jones industrials’ biggest gainers; fellow refiners ConocoPhillips and Chevron also rose. The advance in oil stocks helped the Dow recover from an 88-point decline on Monday, its biggest drop in two months.

The markets also were lifted by robust earnings reports from United Technologies and Texas Instruments, which helped offset a warning from the telecommunications equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent that it would not post a profit during the fourth quarter because of a steep decline in sales.

“Earnings are not coming in all that bad,” said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist with ING Investment Management. “There is an absence of any real bad news, leading indicators are up and companies are not falling off the table.”
592 2007-01-24 The councils are part of a plan to construct “socialist cities,” some from scratch in the empty interior, to be settled in part by cramped city dwellers in Caracas and Maracaibo. Mr. Velásquez says he wants Venezuela’s state apparatus, as it exists now, to become “unnecessary.”

Some of Mr. Chávez’s critics compare the project to Pol Pot’s emptying of Phnom Penh in his bloody effort to remake Cambodian society in the 1970s. Mr. Chávez’s supporters in Congress say inspiration for the councils actually goes back further, by more than a century, to the Paris Commune of 1871, a short-lived effort to govern Paris under socialist ideals.

The Paris Commune? In 2007? In Venezuela, which is booming thanks to more than $30 billion in oil exports to the United States last year, no idea seems too fanciful to consider.

“It is like a bowl of minestrone soup,” said Luis Miquilena, a former high-ranking adviser to Mr. Chávez, of the president’s philosophy. “It is a series of arbitrary improvisations from a fellow obeyed by everyone in his circle.”

Chavismo has long been a challenge to define, in part because Mr. Chávez — the son of schoolteachers whose formal education includes a degree in military science from Venezuela’s military academy and graduate studies in political science — absorbs ideas from so many places.

“Chávez has an incredibly voracious mind,” Edgardo Lander, a sociologist at the Central University of Venezuela and a prominent intellectual sympathetic to Mr. Chávez’s government, said in an interview.

As evidence, Mr. Lander cited the president’s admiration of István Mészáros, a relatively obscure Hungarian Marxist scholar, who argues that there is an alternative to capitalism in his 1,000-page book, “Beyond Capital.”

Mr. Chávez’s actions may speak louder than his literary citations. Mr. Lander recently touched off a firestorm among Chavistas with an essay questioning whether Mr. Chávez’s attempt to build a single Socialist Party was premature when bitter memories linger of the authoritarianism that characterized socialist governments in the last century.

To Mr. Chávez’s critics here, it is clear that his “21st century socialism” includes a large dose of autocracy. Why else, they argue, would Mr. Chávez request decree powers when his supporters already control Congress, the Supreme Court and every state government but two? Alfredo Barrera Tyszka, the co-author of an acclaimed biography of Mr. Chávez, says it is because the president, a former army officer, is simply tired of waiting for subordinates to carry out his wishes.

Others put Chavismo in historical context. Yes, Mr. Chávez shocked financial markets when he announced the nationalization of Venezuela’s main telephone company and the electricity industry. But Venezuela has been down this road before.

In the 1950s, the military strongman Marcos Pérez Jiménez nationalized the same telephone company. (Another government privatized it 40 years later.) Like Mr. Chávez, Mr. Pérez Jiménez undertook grandiose projects like the Humboldt Hotel, whose eerie shell sits atop the Ávila mountain above Caracas.

In the 1970s, the populist Carlos Andrés Pérez nationalized the oil industry and other “strategic” sectors. He also used an oil windfall to improve the lot of the poor, an effort that fell apart when oil prices plunged in the 1980s.

Of course, Mr. Chávez also differs considerably from his predecessors. His muscular foreign policy, including alliances with Iran, Bolivia and, now, Syria and Nicaragua, recalls that of Fidel Castro. And though he describes critics in the news media as “putschists,” it was Mr. Chávez who captured national attention in 1992 through a failed coup attempt.

Looking beyond his quotations from the Bible and the letters of Simon Bolívar, one finds other influences. There is the “Green Book,” Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s treatise on rejecting liberal democracy, which Mr. Chávez devoured in his army days in the 1980s.

Several of Mr. Chávez’s intellectual mentors have high-level posts in the government. Bernard Mommer, a senior official in the oil ministry, has helped guide Venezuela’s energy policy, advocating a hawkish approach of production cuts within OPEC to keep oil prices high.

Another influence was Norberto Ceresole, an Argentine sociologist who was an adviser to Mr. Chávez in the 1990s. Mr. Ceresole, who championed the idea of a caudillo, or strongman, to rule Venezuela, was also known for his virulently anti-Semitic views. Mr. Chávez later distanced himself from Mr. Ceresole, who died in 2003.

Some here say Mr. Chávez’s ideological shift is largely cosmetic, a continuation of the socialist talk that intensified after his brief ouster in a 2002 coup carried out with the support of the Bush administration. They point to the pragmatism of compensating owners of nationalized companies and covering the foreign debt of oil exploration ventures coming under state control.

But there are those who see Mr. Chávez’s socialist ramblings more darkly. After hearing him resuscitate Che Guevara’s idea to forge socialism through the creation of a “new man,” the historian Manuel Caballero caused a stir recently by saying that a large part of the electorate voted for Mr. Chávez “because it wanted a dictatorship.”
593 2007-01-24 Your Jan. 17 editorial “Keep Your Shoes On, for a Price” does not address the issue of creeping elitism. Some of us can choose to fly more comfortably (in first class) for more money, but we have no choice regarding airport security: we must all go through it.

If the privileged are allowed to “buy” better treatment by the government, where does it end? “Yes, we can dispatch a fire engine to your burning home. Are you paid up for Priority Fire Care, or are you prepared to wait for the cheaper, slower response?” David L. Meister
594 2007-01-24 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
595 2007-01-24 I exaggerate, of course, but only about the details. Not about the climate around too many upscale restaurants these days. Not about an unmistakable, unsettling shift in the balance of power between self-regarding restaurants and self-effacing diners.

Once they were lucky to have us. Now we’re lucky to have them. They don’t meet us on our terms. We meet them on theirs.

Gordon Ramsay swaggered into town late last year and, instead of unfurling a welcome mat, laid down a gauntlet. Callers were told that the tables they reserved in his shimmering dining room at the London NYC hotel were good for only two hours, after which diners would be shooed to a peripheral lounge for any coffee or after-dinner drinks they might desire.

When this proviso was reported, Mr. Ramsay backtracked, saying that reservation agents had misspoken or misunderstood, and that the time limit applied only to tables in the London Bar, a more casual area just outside the inner sanctum.

But he made no apologies for setting up a ticking clock there, even though diners in the London Bar are on the hook for as much as $85 each in food alone if they listen to servers’ ordering advice.

Thomas Keller just changed the rules of engagement at Per Se. When the restaurant opened in 2004, diners didn’t have to sign on for the nine-course, $150 tasting menu it showcased most prominently. They could elect a less time-consuming menu of five courses for $125. They could eat at Per Se without surrendering three hours or more.

As of this month, though, the nine-course menu is the shortest, and it now costs $250. That price includes a 20 percent tip and free bottled water, coffee and tea, while the old price didn’t.

Mr. Keller said by phone recently that a vast majority of visitors to his restaurant ordered the nine courses anyway, so a simpler, speedier route seemed unnecessary.

But he also made clear that nine courses were what he deemed best for diners visiting Per Se or its sister restaurant in the Napa Valley, the French Laundry.

“I’d like them to experience the entire experience, the entire Thomas Keller, the entire French Laundry,” he said. People who stop at five courses, he said, are doing the equivalent of leaving a Broadway play at intermission or walking through only half of a special exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

“Has the exhibit given them the full impact of what it was supposed to by whoever designed the exhibit?” he asked. “Probably not.”

Chefs at the pinnacle of their profession have long considered themselves artists, with ample reason. But it’s no longer just the top chefs — it’s no longer just chefs, period — who hoist themselves onto pedestals, inviting reverence.

At Porter House New York, a lesser restaurant that, like Per Se, is on the fourth floor of the Time Warner Center, a line on the menu tells you that autographed copies of a cookbook by the executive chef, Michael Lomonaco, are “available for purchase.” Never mind a doggie bag. Take home some instructive reading material.

After the restaurateur Danny Meyer’s “Setting the Table” was published last fall, he propped up copies right inside the front doors of Gramercy Tavern, Eleven Madison Park and Tabla, where the book was also displayed above the bar, just to be safe.

Mr. Meyer isn’t a chef. He’s essentially a host, renowned for his humility and hospitality, for rounding out your meal with a prettily wrapped coffeecake for breakfast the next morning.

And yet he set things up so that when you walked into one of his restaurants, your first encounter wasn’t necessarily with a host or a hostess saying hello or taking your coat. It was with a photograph of him on a self-flattering book (“America’s most innovative restaurateur,” trumpets the cover) about how he always puts you, the customer, first.

THE lucrative publishing contracts that restaurateurs and chefs receive, the cable television shows on which they appear — all of this has encouraged a showboating that travels into restaurants, where the open kitchens sometimes seem less like peepholes for us than pulpits for them.

When the chef Laurent Tourondel opted for an open kitchen in the main, third-floor dining area of BLT Fish, he had to sacrifice a restroom. Diners must go to the first floor to find one. But look at what Mr. Tourondel got: a broad, beautifully framed stage for his ministrations — provided, of course, that he’s not at BLT Steak, BLT Prime, BLT Burger or BLT Market (coming soon).

The chef Gray Kunz can indeed be found regularly at Café Gray, where he strides through a seemingly blocklong open kitchen positioned between the main dining room and a wall of windows onto Columbus Circle. He and the kitchen staff get the city views; diners get a view of him and the kitchen staff.

It’s partly our fault. It’s largely our doing. Chefs and restaurants wouldn’t behave the way they do if we penalized them for it, instead of readily demonstrating our fealty. We take the 9:45 p.m. reservations (no exaggeration there). We agree to call a second time to confirm.

We buy the books and watch the television programs, granting our culinary heroes the celebrity that they then lord over us. Those of us who love restaurants — of course including critics, of course including me — talk and write about chefs the way movie lovers wrote and talked about directors in the 1970s, ascribing outsize authority to them, treating them as mystically endowed auteurs rather than what they really are: key — but by no means solitary — figures in an ultimately collaborative process.

And they gladly play the parts of creative demigods, roles they’ve helped fashion for themselves.

I visit L’Atelier de Joël Robuchon, in the Four Seasons Hotel, during its first week. The restaurant is supposed to start serving lunch at 11:30 a.m., but by 11:40 it hasn’t opened, and by noon only 8 of the 20 or so people angling for a seat have been escorted inside. Most of the others stare poignantly at the hostess. And wait. And don’t complain.

After my friends and I get a table and place our order, one of our servers volunteers, in a jubilant voice, that Mr. Robuchon thinks we’ve made excellent decisions. I survey the path between my table and the door. Is it long and broad enough for cartwheels?

I visit the restaurant Ureña, owned by the chef Alex Ureña, whom our server ceaselessly invokes. “Chef has sent out these amuse-bouches,” the server says toward the start of dinner. “Chef was so pleased you liked your desserts,” he says toward the end. Chef is apparently above such things as names. And we’re apparently expected to know who he is — and to be primed for his genius — before we sit down.

Of course L’Atelier and Ureña have tasting menus. It won’t be long before Hooters has a tasting menu. Tasting menus are all the rage, reflecting more than the desire of many diners to sample little bits of lots of things.

In places where these menus are pushed aggressively — Gordon Ramsay labels his own six-course option the Prestige menu — they also represent ways to transfer control from diners to restaurants.

“I personally love to have tasting menus,” Floyd Cardoz, the executive chef at Tabla, said in a telephone interview last month. He was referring to the five- and seven-course menus he puts together there, and his word choice made me wonder.

Are such menus about coddling diners or flattering chefs? Are a diner’s whims being trumped by a chef’s wisdom?

And are the wine pairings really necessary? Some restaurants insist so, effectively shaming diners into submission and creating an evening of relentless verbiage, the soliloquies by the sommelier filling any gaps in the soliloquies by the servers.

Not that there are many gaps. Even in restaurants well below the top end, servers describe dish after dish, from an amuse-bouche hardly bigger than a semicolon to a scoop of vanilla ice cream, in exhaustive detail and priestly voices. They interrupt diners if they have to. They press on even if the gazes at the table are averted, the jaws clenched. The ceremony and the sweetbreads must come first.

The restaurant must have its say and way. At several casual restaurants over the past year — restaurants, mind you, that seem to exist in part for snacking and for cobbled-together meals — companions and I were told that we couldn’t order a few appetizers to sate our hunger while we sipped drinks and perused menus. We had to place our entire dinner order at once.

The reason, surely, had to do with the understandable challenges of a small kitchen’s trying to pace a large number of orders during a busy dinner service. But it was stated in terms of how the chef preferred to operate, as if that should be our concern, or about our own best interests, as if the restaurant were the final authority on those.

At Freemans, a self-consciously scruffy redoubt on the Lower East Side, the server who denied us our cheese toasts and hot artichoke dip explained, “You’ll have a more pleasant experience that way.” Such altruism. Moved us to tears.

AND now, confessions: I gave moderately or hugely positive reviews to Ureña, BLT Fish, L’Atelier, Eleven Madison Park and Per Se, all of which had virtues that, to varying degrees, outweigh their vanities. Besides, those vanities are too pervasive to hang on any one restaurant, or to hang any one restaurant with.

I raved about Babbo, where the seductiveness of the food transcends a bullying rock soundtrack that puts the cult of its chef before the comfort of diners. When you’re at Babbo, you listen to what Mario Batali wants you to, at the volume he elects, no matter how unlikely you are to enjoy it. It’s his house, not yours.

That’s the subtle or unsubtle message at too many restaurants. And while it hasn’t killed the joy of eating out, it has at times certainly sullied that pleasure.

The inconveniences mount, the orgy of enforced adulation intensifies, and bit by bit, dining in New York’s most prized restaurants becomes cause for exhaustion instead of elation, an act of obeisance rather than indulgence. Something’s got to give.

At Del Posto, Mr. Batali’s newest Manhattan restaurant, he and one of his business partners, the restaurateur Joseph Bastianich, send you out the door with crumbs. Literally. Instead of a Meyer-style coffeecake, the parting gift is a bag of bread crumbs.

It may not be suitable for breakfast. It may not be glamorous. But for Mr. Batali, it’s an opportunity for synergy. The bag includes instructions for using bread crumbs, sourced to Page 39 of “Molto Italiano,” one of Molto Mario’s cookbooks.

It’s a gesture that’s as much a come-on as a thank-you, pointing you toward another way to show Mr. Batali some lucre and love. Reminding you of his glory. Affirming your good fortune in being privy and witness to it.
596 2007-01-24 To the Editor:     Your Jan. 17 editorial ''Keep Your Shoes On, for a Price'' does not address the issue of creeping elitism. Some of us can choose to fly more comfortably (in first class) for more money, but we have no choice regarding airport se...
597 2007-01-24 Photo of Maria Sharapova's win against Anna Chakvetadze in Australian Open...
598 2007-01-24 The United States will start formal negotiations this year with Poland and the Czech Republic on deploying ground-based antimissile defense systems in the countries, government officials said. The decision was made despite weak public support in e...
599 2007-01-24 After an earlier offer received a cool reception from minority shareholders, Royal Dutch Shell increased its bid for the portion of Shell Canada it does not own to 45 Canadian dollars ($38.10) a share from 40 Canadian dollars. The new offer values...
600 2007-01-24 The United Nations Security Council voted to set up a mission to oversee a disarmament and cease-fire accord between the government and former Maoist rebels and plan elections of a constitutional assembly in June. The vote creates a force of milit...
601 2007-01-24 SETTLEMENT OF KATRINA CLAIMS -- State Farm Insurance said it had reached an agreement with state officials to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to owners of homes along the coast that were wrecked by Hurricane Katrina. [Page C1.]    A PUSH FOR R...
602 2007-01-25 Hedge fund money, which now exceeds $1 trillion, has emerged in the last several years as a potentially powerful force in politics, as underscored by the significant role it is playing in the presidential aspirations of Senator Hillary Rodham Clin...
603 2007-01-25 There was much ado in the press about German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s speech at the World Economic Forum on Wednesday, with several reports focusing on her stance on hedge funds. Ms. Merkel said proposals to shed more light on hedge funds’ o...
604 2007-01-25 With Michigan's new ban on affirmative action going into effect, and similar ballot initiatives looming in other states, many public universities are scrambling to find race-blind ways to attract more blacks and Hispanics. How can colleges ensure ...
605 2007-01-25 Readers respond to Frank Rich's Dec. 17 column, "Mary Cheney's Bundle of Joy." Dan Smolen, Stafford, Va.: Personally, I agree with your commentary, but in Virginia, while George Allen lost, Question One, the anti-gay marriage ballot initiative, ca...
606 2007-01-25 Nearly half of the 49 hedge funds that had their headquarters in the Virgin Islands have left in the past two years. It's not the heat or the bugs that sent them packing, but the Internal Revenue Service. A set of new laws and regulations have das...
607 2007-01-25 Bribing bloggers, fabricating reviews and making up letters to the editor makes the company look worse, not better....
608 2007-01-25 New shows in New York include "Dutchman," "Women of Trachis" and "The Dirty Talk."...
609 2007-01-25 From the January 1, 2007, edition of The New York Times:

"Several bloggers reported last week that they had received Acer Ferrari laptops, which can sell for more than $2,200, from Microsoft. A spokeswoman for Microsoft confirmed on Friday that the company had sent out about 90 computers to bloggers who write about technology and other subjects" that could be affected by the release of Windows Vista, Microsoft's new operating system.

"Being provided an evaluation computer from Acer is not a 'bribe,'" argued blogger Blake Handler, after receiving one of the free laptops. "It simply allows me to accelerate my evaluations, documentation and demonstrations of Windows Vista."

OMG! You've got to be kidding me, Blake. I guess just being *lent* a laptop wouldn't have been enough to accelerate your evaluations? I guess only being given a freebie from Microsoft would do the trick.

Now, I realize it must be hard to send a shiny new laptop back to the mother ship just because it's the right thing to do. Still, I think very little of the bloggers who are keeping Microsoft's bribe laptops.

Clearly, they're exploiting the lawless, Brave New World of the blogsophere, where, since they're Not Quite Journalists, they don't feel constrained by any of those pesky journalistic ethics guidelines. Like the one that says, "You don't keep $2,200 gifts from the subject of your review. You might think you can still write an impartial review, but it's highly unlikely-and either way, nobody will believe it."
610 2007-01-25 The minimum wage hike is facing some difficult terrain in the Senate....
611 2007-01-25 The American Stock Exchange said Thursday it had hired the investment bank Morgan Stanley to advise it on a demutualization plan, which would convert it to a for-profit corporation, as well as "potential strategic future initiatives." Demutualizat...
612 2007-01-25 Delphi said it had signed an agreement for an investment of up to $3.4 billion by a bloc of funds that will take a controlling stake in the auto parts maker as it emerges from bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court overseeing Delphi's reorganization app...
613 2007-01-25 Sales of existing homes declined 0.8 percent in December, according to the National Association of Realtors, a sign of further slowing in the nation’s once-effervescent housing market.

For the full year, sales fell 8.4 percent, the largest decline in 24 years, after five years of boom times.

Despite the falling sales volume, prices have largely held their ground. The median price of a house sold in 2006 rose 1.1 percent, far short of the double-digit increases of the five previous years. The median price rose 12.4 percent in 2005.

Homes sold in December at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.22 million, down from 6.27 million in November. The December figure was down 7.9 percent from the previous December.

The sales decline in 2006 was the biggest since 1982, when sales dropped 17.7 percent during an economic recession.

Economists say they think the slump in the housing market, which was even more pronounced in new homes than in existing ones, has bottomed out, and they look for a rebound in 2007. The Commerce Department reported last week that builders began construction of new homes at an annual rate of 1.642 million in December, an increase of 4.5 percent from the previous month.
614 2007-01-25 And top candidates for the 2008 campaign are expected to raise a lot of money quickly — at least $100 million each by the end of this year by some estimates.

“Are hedge fund guys going to be happy with their art collections and their houses in Greenwich or are they going to take the next step?” said Byron R. Wien, the investment strategist at Pequot Capital. “As Hollywood once invaded politics, you will see the same with hedge funds.”

Money from Wall Street has long been a factor in Washington and has tended to flow, with a policy agenda, to the ascendant political party. Giving by people in hedge funds, on the other hand, tends to be more personal and ideological. Some of the most aggressive donors have been Democratic supporters like George Soros, David E. Shaw of D. E. Shaw and James H. Simons at Renaissance Technologies, as well as younger executives like Thomas F. Steyer at Farallon and Marc Lasry at Avenue Capital, all of whom gave generously during the 2006 election cycle.

While hedge fund money appears to be tilting toward Democrats of late, Republican donors like Julian H. Robertson Jr., the founder of Tiger Management, who has given more than $700,000 over the last three cycles, and Bruce Kovner at Caxton Associates have backed their party’s candidates and causes.

Still, compared with the billions of dollars that hedge fund magnates have spent on art, mansions and other extravagances, these political donations are a pittance, held in check by federal finance laws that limit personal contributions to $2,100 and by a general reluctance to step into the public limelight.

But with the rapid growth of their money and stature, an increasing number of the hedge fund wealthy are not just putting their money to work, they are forging personal and professional ties with a generation of politicians who have come to spend as much time raising money as they do drafting legislation.

The courtship has been slow.

After all, the essence of the industry’s success has been its unregulated status and secrecy, so hedge fund titans must weigh the thrill of proximity to political power with the increased public scrutiny that inevitably follows.

The connections can take different shapes and forms. For John Edwards, the Democratic presidential candidate, the 14 months he spent as a paid senior adviser at Fortress Investment, a $29.7 billion hedge fund and private equity firm, helped him to bond with the fund’s liberal-leaning executives, several of whom have given money to Mr. Edwards.

As to what Mr. Edwards, a trial lawyer with no previous financial markets experience, did at Fortress, an adviser to the candidate said that Mr. Edwards “advised on where there might be investment opportunities and where he saw the global economy going.” Mr. Edwards resigned from Fortress last month before declaring his candidacy.

And Avenue Capital, a $12 billion fund run by Mr. Lasry, a prominent financial supporter of the Clintons, hired their daughter, Chelsea, last year.

Mr. Singer and Ms. Perry represent different sides of the same coin. Mr. Singer, 62, is the founding partner of Elliott Associates, a $7 billion hedge fund with a conservative, risk-averse bias that has been in business since 1977, making it one of the oldest funds around. A reserved, private man who would answer questions only via e-mail, Mr. Singer is a self-described conservative libertarian who has given millions of dollars to Republican organizations that emphasize a strong military and support Israel.

They include Progress for America ($1.5 million in contributions), a political advocacy group set up to advance the policies of the Bush administration; Swift Vets and P.O.W.’s for Truth; and the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs, which includes Vice President Dick Cheney and Richard N. Perle, an adviser to the former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, among its past and current advisory directors.

Mr. Singer said that his support for Mr. Giuliani sprang from an appreciation of Mr. Giuliani’s work as mayor. “Rudy’s stewardship is primarily responsible for making New York one of the greatest cities of the world,” he said.

A trustee at the Manhattan Institute, the conservative policy group that has been a source of many of Mr. Giuliani’s core policies, like welfare reform and a focus on quality-of-life issues, Mr. Singer sees Mr. Giuliani as the “strongest, most conservative candidate in the race.”

While Kenneth G. Langone, a co-founder of Home Depot, held Mr. Giuliani’s first public fund-raiser last month, a campaign strategy notebook that was leaked to The Daily News of New York this month pointed to Mr. Singer as the locus of Mr. Giuliani’s fund-raising network. “I will be raising money for Rudy in professional and personal circles,” he said.

Asked to describe his political philosophy, Mr. Singer says his conservatism dates back to Barry Goldwater and is founded on free enterprise and a belief that the government should “not be taking from one person and giving to another.” He abhors what he calls social engineering and he has financially supported state propositions that advocate preventing state agencies from collecting racial information.

He believes in the doctrine of American exceptionalism and is wary about United States involvement in “international organizations and alliances.” As for the war in Iraq, he said, “America finds itself at an early stage of a drawn-out existential struggle with radical strains of pan-national Islamists.”

In an industry known for its secrecy, Mr. Singer keeps a particularly low profile. He does all that he can to keep his picture from appearing in the media and does virtually no marketing for his fund, which had a return of 17 percent last year. Given his wealth, his disposition is frugal.

“He is not a trophy collector,” said Lawrence Simon, the co-founder of Ivy Asset Management and an investor with Mr. Singer for more than 25 years. “I don’t even know if he has a second abode. He is very quiet in the way that he carries himself.”

A graduate of the University of Rochester and Harvard Law School, Mr. Singer practiced law before he began to dabble in what was then an obscure investment strategy called convertible arbitrage. By buying convertible bonds and selling the attached stock short — or betting that its price would fall — he realized that he could achieve a decent investment return in up and down markets.

Steeled by the bear markets of the 1970s, he worries that managers may have become punch-drunk from a surfeit of happy investment times. “I am struck by the size of the hedge fund community and the amount of money being managed by people who have little experience in risk management and adverse market environments,” he said.

In contrast to Mr. Singer’s quiet approach, Ms. Perry’s embrace of Mrs. Clinton has taken on a more celebratory cast. She has tapped New York’s art world for fund-raising parties and opened up her Long Island house, in Sag Harbor, for gatherings for the senator.

Over the last three election cycles, Ms. Perry, 48, has given more than $1 million to Democrats, putting her in the most elite tier of Democratic donors. Given that she wrote her first check in 1998, when she was a stay-at-home mother, it has been a rapid evolution and one that has been fueled by her belief that there are not enough women senators in Washington. Her litmus issue is a woman’s right to an abortion and it is what first attracted her to Mrs. Clinton in 1999.

Now she considers her a personal friend. “We have a strong bond,” she said. “She is the smartest, the most worldly. I just think she would be the most fabulous president.”

She admits to getting a bit emotional at the thought of a woman in the White House. “I feel it so strongly,” said Ms. Perry, who is in the midst of starting her own line of Lisa Perry-branded clothing. “I’m a strong feminist so I really want it to happen.”

Mrs. Clinton’s advisers are quick to give Ms. Perry her due.

“Lisa is an active, effective supporter,” said Alan J. Patricof, the finance chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s two Senate campaigns. “She is not a frivolous person.”

While her husband, Richard, is also a Democrat, Ms. Perry points out that her giving and fund-raising are driven by her own politics, not his. Still, he, too, is a supporter of Mrs. Clinton.

“He thinks she is one of the smartest people he has ever met,” Ms. Perry said.

But it is her own largess that gives her a sense of pride. “Not a lot of women write their own checks,” she said.
615 2007-01-25 Sharapova, seeded No. 1, and Clijsters, seeded fourth, both struggled yet prevailed on Wednesday. Clijsters, who has announced that this will be her last Australian Open, failed to control her power for significant stretches of the first and second sets, finishing with 62 unforced errors and 47 winners against the three-time champion Martina Hingis.

But in the end, Clijsters’s weight of shot and Hingis’s lightweight second serve made the difference, as Clijsters broke open this uneven match by sweeping the final four games to win, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.

“This could have been my last one here; I’m glad I get to play another,” said Clijsters, who plans to retire from competitive tennis at the end of this season despite being just 23 years old.

Sharapova’s laborious 7-6 (5), 7-5 victory required 2 hours 14 minutes — 11 minutes more than Clijsters’s three-set victory — as her 12th-seeded Russian opponent, Anna Chakvetadze, kept alternating the sublime (her two-handed backhand) and the ridiculous (a second serve that bounced well before hitting the net in the final set).

“Sometimes I feel I don’t know if she knows what she’s doing,” Sharapova said. “She definitely has a lot of variety. If she wants to step in, she has a lot of power behind her strokes. But over all, at the end of the day, it’s just about who took the chances a little more.”

The last time Haas was in the final four of a Grand Slam was here in 2002, the same year he topped out at No. 2 in the rankings, the same year his right shoulder failed him, requiring two surgeries and knocking him out of the game for more than a year and out of contention for the major prizes until now.

Haas was the only man to push Federer to a fifth set in any Grand Slam last year, doing so here in the fourth round. He later lost to Davydenko in five sets in the quarterfinals of the United States Open, paying the toll for the two five-set victories that preceded the match.

He could have gone down swinging again this time if Davydenko had managed to return Haas’s kicking second serve on his one and only match point at 4-5, 30-40 in the fifth set. But Davydenko went for too much and missed a backhand into the net.

Haas missed his first chance to close out the match when serving at 6-5, 40-15 when Davydenko successfully challenged a line call on a forehand that had been called out. But Haas converted on his next match point, moving to his left and hitting his signature running backhand down the line. That left the baseline-hugging Davydenko, usually the master of the full-swinging half volley, to lunge and miss as Haas won, 6-3, 2-6, 1-6, 6-1, 7-5.

It was quite a turnabout for Haas, who was sitting on his chair at 2-1 in the fourth set and lecturing himself in German: “I can’t play. I don’t get it. I pay people for absolutely nothing.

“I don’t want any more of this.”

Davydenko, sitting on his own chair, was within earshot. “I think Haas coming crazy,” he said in his still-evolving English.

González has become a familiar presence in the second week of Grand Slam events, but only early in the second week. He reached the quarterfinals at the 2002 United States Open, the quarterfinals of the 2003 French Open and even the quarterfinals in 2005 at Wimbledon.

But it has taken until now for the huge-hitting, soft-spoken González to take the next step into the semifinals, and he has done so in great style despite a meaty draw that required him to face Lleyton Hewitt in the third round and the supposedly red-hot James Blake in the fourth. Then came Nadal, the tenacious left-hander.

“I’m delighted, but it’s not over,” González said after his 6-2, 6-4, 6-3 victory in which he never lost his serve, finishing with 41 winners, including 10 aces, and just 16 unforced errors.

Nadal has been the best player not named Roger Federer for the last two seasons, but he was not at his best Wednesday, finishing with seven more unforced errors than winners and failing to play the same sort of spectacularly effective defense that, along with his whipping forehand and combativeness, has defined him.

The reasons, according to Nadal, were González and the aftershocks of his marathon match with Andy Murray in the fourth round: a late-night five-setter that left him feeling soreness in his legs and pain in his upper left leg.

“It was taking a lot of effort for me to run; I couldn’t keep up with the rhythm of the match,” Nadal said.

González said he had been unaware of any problem until Nadal took a medical timeout early in the third set and then briefly left the court for further treatment.

“The only time I noticed anything strange was when he called the trainer,” González said. “But in the game itself, I wanted to finish the points more quickly, and if knew he was hurting in the leg, I would have perhaps tried to extend the rallies more.”

González, who now holds a 3-1 edge over Nadal, finished off plenty of them with winners, particularly inside-out forehands, but it is his ability to avoid going for too much too soon that helps explain his recent surge, which began with three straight finals indoors at the end of last season. González is also in better shape.

“Fernando had a mirror moment,” said Larry Stefanki, who has been coaching González since May. “At age 25, he decided he wanted to do something more, that what he had was not enough. It takes guts to change your game when you’re between 10 and 15 in the world.

“You risk falling at first. But he has worked very hard, and it’s paying off.”
616 2007-01-25 ALBANY, Jan. 24 — Gov. Eliot Spitzer and legislative leaders announced a package of sweeping changes to state ethics policies on Wednesday, but the measures were greeted with a mixed response from civic groups that have long pushed for even broader changes.

In addition to banning gifts and honoraria for public officials, the leaders proposed merging the State Ethics Commission, which has jurisdiction over the executive branch, and the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying, which oversees lobbying, into a new Commission on Public Integrity.

“In one bold action, lawmakers have set New York on a path toward true integrity in government,” Mr. Spitzer said in a statement.

But the new integrity commission will not include the Legislative Ethics Committee, which is widely viewed as the weakest of the three existing entities, though changes are in store for it as well. And there was criticism that negotiations on the package were conducted largely in secret by Mr. Spitzer and the two legislative leaders, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader.

Approval of the proposals by the full Legislature is considered virtually certain.

Under the plan, the new commission and the revamped legislative ethics body will be required to issue annual reports disclosing their investigations. Currently, the legislative body, which will be renamed the Legislative Ethics Commission, is prevented from disclosing much of its work. And for the first time, nonlegislators, appointed by the Legislature, will serve on the legislative commission’s board, where they will hold the majority of votes.
617 2007-01-25 WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 — The Democratic majority in the House restored limited floor voting rights to the Congressional delegates from the District of Columbia and four territories on Wednesday after a rancorous debate with echoes of the days before the Republicans won the majority in 1994.

The change approved on a party-line vote of 226 to 191 was mostly symbolic because the five delegates will be allowed to vote just on floor amendments, not on final approval of bills.

If their votes influence the outcome on amendments, a new vote will be taken without their participation.

The return of the privileges, first allowed by Democrats in 1993 and rescinded by Republicans in 1995, resulted in Republicans’ pouring out their frustration about their treatment by Democrats in the first weeks of Congress. The sour mood threatened efforts at forging a more cooperative relationship between the parties.

“We’ve extended the hand of friendship to each other in hopes of working together for the common good,” Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, said as he accused Democrats of trampling House rules. “Unfortunately, the hand of friendship is being slapped away by the actions of the majority.”
618 2007-01-25 WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 (Bloomberg) — Senate Republicans rejected an effort by Democrats to pass minimum-wage legislation without breaks for small businesses on Wednesday, setting the stage for a potential impasse with the House, where lawmakers are demanding a “clean” bill.

The Senate vote of 54 to 43 was six votes short of the 60 needed to move ahead with a wage measure that does not include tax benefits for employers. Earlier this month, the Senate Finance Committee voted to add $8.3 billion in tax breaks to the bill.

Leaders of the new Democratic-led Congress have said raising the federal minimum wage for the first time in 10 years, to $7.25 an hour from the current $5.15, is a priority. The measure may now be headed for deadlock. Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, has suggested he will block any minimum-wage measure that includes tax provisions.

A spokesman for Mr. Rangel, Matthew Beck, said Wednesday: “The Senate needs to pass a clean bill. They shouldn’t hold the minimum wage hostage.”

The House passed its minimum-wage measure on Jan. 10.

Mr. Rangel notes that the Constitution requires tax-related legislation to originate in the House.

Under Congressional rules, Mr. Rangel can block House consideration of the Senate’s minimum-wage measure. Any legislation would have to be reconciled between the two chambers before being sent to President Bush for his signature.
619 2007-01-25 Still, the Federal Bureau of Investigation took on the case, and in November of 1964 Mr. Seale, the son of a chapter leader of the White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, and another man, Charles Marcus Edwards, were arrested. They were never prosecuted, in part because fear of Klan retribution prevented witnesses from stepping forward. According to the case file, however, Mr. Edwards told F.B.I. agents that he, Mr. Seale and others had beaten the men but that they were alive when he left them.

Mr. Dee was a sawmill worker; Mr. Moore had recently been expelled from college after participating in a student demonstration. According to a variety of accounts pieced together from F.B.I. files, the Klan mistakenly believed that they were Black Muslims involved in plotting an armed uprising.

That season had been dubbed Freedom Summer by civil rights volunteers hoping to get blacks onto the voter rolls, but in and around Natchez it was a time of terror spread by the Klan. When Klan members saw Mr. Dee and Mr. Moore hitchhiking in early May, they returned with reinforcements and ordered them into a car.

The two were taken deep into the Homochitto National Forest, where they were secured to trees and beaten. They were then driven across the nearby state line to Louisiana, where they were tied to an engine block and thrown into the river with tape covering their mouths.

Mr. Edwards is still living, although The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson reported Wednesday that he was not expected to be arrested and was a potential witness in the case against Mr. Seale. James Newman, the sheriff of Franklin County, which includes Roxie, said Mr. Seale was in poor health and used a cane to walk.

Mr. Edwards is described in the documents from the time as an admitted Klansman. In an interview in 2000 with Jerry Mitchell of The Clarion-Ledger, who has written extensively about the case, Mr. Seale denied being a Klansman or knowing any members, although his family’s involvement in the Klan is well documented.

The F.B.I. reopened the case in 2000 after investigative files that had been thought lost were recovered, and after Mr. Mitchell reported that the killings had most likely occurred on federal land, giving federal prosecutors jurisdiction in what was seen as a case potentially involving murder charges. A spokeswoman for the Justice Department declined Wednesday to explain the decision to charge Mr. Seale with kidnapping, and a spokeswoman for the United States attorney in Jackson did not return phone calls.

In 2002, Mr. Seale’s son began telling newspaper reporters that his father was dead. But Thomas Moore, the elder brother of Charles Moore, returned to the area with a documentary filmmaker on a trip in 2004, and a local resident directed him to the mobile home where Mr. Seale lived. Mr. Seale ran inside and shut the door.
620 2007-01-25 DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 24 — Pakistan’s prime minister, Shaukat Aziz, acknowledged Wednesday that people sympathetic to the Taliban were active in the frontier regions near the border with Afghanistan. But he insisted that the root of the problem was the Afghan government’s weak authority, not Pakistani support of the Taliban.

“We believe the core of the problem is in Afghanistan,” Mr. Aziz said, in an interview at the World Economic Forum here in Davos.

Mr. Aziz also said three million Afghan refugees were crowded into Quetta, Peshawar and other Pakistani cities close to the 1,700 mile-border between the countries. Despite what he described as stepped-up Pakistani efforts to root out extremists, the refugee population remains a recruiting pool for the Taliban insurgency, Mr. Aziz said. But he dismissed allegations that his country was supporting the militants.

“This notion that Pakistan may be in some way or other supporting these people or giving them safe haven is ridiculous,” he said.

As for suspicions that elements in Pakistan’s intelligence service, the I.S.I., might be acting independently in support of the Taliban, he said, “That’s equally ridiculous.”
621 2007-01-25 The Hershey Company’s fourth-quarter profit fell 9.9 percent, trailing analysts’ estimates, after sales at the company, the largest United States candy maker, declined for the first time in three and a half years.

Net income dropped to $153.6 million, or 65 cents a share, from $170.4 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, the company said yesterday. Sales fell 0.7 percent, to $1.34 billion, as a smaller rival, Mars Inc., took a bigger share of the American market.

Hershey said it would add an organic chocolate bar, begin sales in China and increase United States advertising for Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups and Kisses to win back market share. Hershey, based in Hershey, Pa., maintained its 2007 outlook.

This year “looks challenging for Hershey,” Christopher Growe, an analyst at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis, wrote in a note yesterday. “Competitors have picked up their marketing efforts.”

Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated fourth-quarter profit of 71 cents a share and sales of $1.37 billion. The results also fell short of Hershey’s own profit forecast, which it cut twice last year.

Hershey said 2007 profit from operations, which excludes certain items, would rise 7 to 9 percent, implying $2.54 to $2.58 a share. The company said sales would climb 3 percent to 4 percent, to as much as $5.14 billion.
622 2007-01-25 Scanlon pulled off an academic turnaround, earning an award for academic distinction by his senior year, by which time he was back in good standing on the basketball team. Within a few years, at age 23, he was named head coach, replacing the former Knicks player Dean Meminger.

Scanlon managed to revive his academic standing, he said, with the help of a few others, including his coach, Ian Curtin; a history professor, Lawson Bowling; and his girlfriend at the time, Stefanie Tropea, who is now his fiancée.

When Scanlon’s poor grades forced him off the team, Curtin, now the athletic director at St. Joseph’s College of Maine, said he saw potential in Scanlon and allowed him to remain tethered to the team. He watched practices and sat on the bench in street clothes during games.

“I thought if he had to do XYZ to do what he loved, he would,” Curtin said.

Around that time, Scanlon received a letter from a professor he hardly knew. One of the classes Scanlon often skipped was Bowling’s history class. Bowling said he was impressed by a paper Scanlon wrote for the class, and he wrote Scanlon a letter explaining that if he could ever manage to harness his academic potential, he would go from washout to accomplished student.

“It is really the old saw about how a work ethic can be applied across the board,” Bowling said.

Then there was Tropea, the academically inclined girlfriend.

“One day I was in class, writing and writing,” Tropea said. “I looked next to me where Pat was and there wasn’t one word written. This is a history class, text-based. I said to him, ‘Oh, I’ll have to borrow your notes.’ ”

Then she issued a challenge. “I said, ‘I bet you can’t get a higher grade than me on the next test.’ ”

He did not, but he came close. And he was on his way to becoming an A student with a spot on the dean’s list.

Now he is using his story as a real-life example for his athletes. Manhattanville is 12-4 this season and has received votes in a Division III top-25 poll.

“I tried everything, from bribery to extortion,” Don Scanlon Jr. said about how he responded to his son’s academic missteps.

But in the end, he said, “You have to love them; you don’t have to understand them.”
623 2007-01-25 A federal judge yesterday blocked the Adelphia Communications Corporation, the cable television company, from moving ahead with its $15 billion plan to emerge from bankruptcy protection.

Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of United States District Court in Manhattan granted a request by a bondholder group to appeal the Jan. 3 order approving the reorganization plan. The bondholders have argued that the plan undervalues their claims.

Judge Scheindlin, however, required the group to post a $1.3 billion bond to help cover losses that other creditors might suffer from a delay, which could last more than a month.

Adelphia, its lawyers and the lawyers for the bondholders did not return calls seeking comment.

The judge wrote that delaying emergence of Adelphia from its Chapter 11 bankruptcy “threatens grave harm to thousands of parties who have been waiting for more than four years to obtain sizable distributions.”

She nevertheless concluded that the bondholder group showed a “substantial possibility of success on the merits,” and would most likely never get a meaningful hearing absent a delay.
624 2007-01-25 LOS ANGELES, Jan. 24 (Reuters) — Netflix, the online DVD rental company, reported lower fourth-quarter net income on Wednesday but still exceeded Wall Street expectations. Its share price rose more than 10 percent in after-hours trading.

But the company forecast that 2007 revenue would be below estimates, and one analyst said the company’s outlook factored in the impact of stiff competition from its rival, Blockbuster.

Netflix said net income fell to $14.9 million, or 21 cents a share, from $38.2 million, or 57 cents a share, in last year’s fourth quarter, when it recognized a tax benefit of 45 cents a share.

On an adjusted basis, Netflix reported earnings of 24 cents a share. Revenue rose 44 percent, to $277.2 million from $193 million in 2005’s fourth quarter.

Analysts, on average, had expected net income of 15 cents a share, adjusted earnings of 17 cents a share and revenue of $277.2 million, according to Reuters estimates.

Netflix said its subscriber base grew 51 percent from the period a year ago, to 6.3 million.

Shares of Netflix rose 99 cents, to $22.75. In after-hours trading, the share price rose as high as $25.20.
625 2007-01-25 Abbie Hoffman, the mischievous radical whom Mr. Samstein had known at Brandeis, was at home in Massachusetts watching the news when he saw his friend crawling from the rubble. “It was then I decided to head South,” Mr. Hoffman said, according to “For the Hell of It: The Life and Times of Abbie Hoffman” (1996), by Jonah Raskin.

In August 1964, Mr. Samstein, then a field secretary for the committee, told The New York Times about problems in rural Mississippi and said one county, Amite, had been under “a reign of terror.” Policemen pulled him from his car at a stoplight to beat him, Mr. Samstein’s wife said.

Mr. Samstein went on to work with the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party’s largely black delegation trying to supplant or join the all-white Mississippi delegation already chosen for the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City in 1964. His radicalism flared when Bayard Rustin, the legendary civil rights organizer, suggested compromise. According to Taylor Branch in “Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-65” (1998), Mr. Samstein jumped up and shouted, “You’re a traitor, Bayard!”

The failure of the Freedom Democrats, the slowed pace of civil rights progress, and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee’s own metamorphosis into a black nationalist group demoralized Mr. Samstein.

“I curse this country every day of my life because it made me hate it, and I never wanted to,” he said in an interview with Jack Newfield in “A Prophetic Minority” (1966).

Jehudah Menachem Mendel Samstein was born on July 20, 1938, in Manhattan. His father, a kosher butcher became ill, switched to real estate investing and died when Mendy was 10.

Mendy Samstein’s education began in a yeshiva and continued at Stuyvesant High School. He majored in European history at Brandeis and earned a master’s degree in the subject from Cornell. He was a history Ph.D. student at the University of Chicago when he was offered a teaching job at Morehouse College in Atlanta. He grabbed it to be near the civil rights movement.

His wife said his ardor came from his deep feelings about the Holocaust. “He did not want to permit that kind of destruction of a race to happen again,” Ms. Cooper said.

Bob Moses, who led a federation of civil rights groups in Mississippi, invited him to the state, where he worked with Allard K. Lowenstein, later a New York congressman, to recruit and train students from Stanford and Yale for a mock election in October 1963. The “election” did not count, but 80,000 “voters” vividly demonstrated blacks’ electoral clout.

Mr. Samstein met Nancy Cooper the same weekend the bodies of three slain civil rights workers were found. She had been a classmate of one, Andrew Goodman, at Queens College, and followed him south to teach in the so-called freedom schools.

In addition to his wife, Mr. Samstein is survived by his sons, Ivan, of Chicago, and Ben, of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.

After his civil rights days, Mr. Samstein organized against the Vietnam War, taught school, was a psychoanalyst and ran a summer camp, among other things. In 2000, he joined civil rights veterans to protest the handling of the presidential vote in Florida.

He also helped Mr. Moses with his Algebra Project, an effort to bring mathematical literacy to the poor. In a recent communication to Mr. Samstein’s family, Mr. Moses noted that it had not taken multitudes to bring change to Mississippi in the 1960s.

“It took a few people willing to risk everything,” he said.
626 2007-01-25 Those who rent their homes are just as vulnerable to burglars as homeowners, but they are less likely to have burglar alarms. And who can blame them? What renter wants to pay to install a system that has to be left behind in a move, or be locked into a monitoring company’s contract that is longer than the lease?

Into the breach comes LaserShield, a portable burglar alarm system available at CompUSA, Costco and Kmart stores.

The $200 starter kit comes with a master alarm unit, a wireless detection unit and two keychain remotes. The detection unit can monitor rooms of up to 1,200 square feet. As many as 11 additional wireless units can be added to a system, costing mansion renters an extra $60 each.

When a motion detector’s infrared beam is broken it signals the master alarm unit, which can be placed up to 150 feet away. The system lets out a 105-decibel siren and calls a monitoring service. The monitoring service charges a monthly fee of $20, after a $25 activation charge. The master unit and detectors have backup batteries that last for 12 hours, and they are easy to pack up and move when the time comes.
627 2007-01-25 A stuffed animal doubles as the key to a Web site with Webkinz, a collectible toy that has been enjoying some playground buzz lately.

Each of the 60 varieties of soft and squishy animals, sold either as Webkinz ($14) or as smaller Lil’ Kinz ($8), comes with a sealed tag with a code that can be entered at Webkinz World (www.webkinz.com). Once the code is recognized, children meet a virtual version of their pet that they can use to play games and chat with friends. The pet can move into its own furnished home.

The experience is a bit like one of the big online multiplayer games, minus the ability to chat freely. Instead, you can send messages to other animals using phrases in pull-down menus, eliminating the possibility of contact with strangers. The Web site has 20 games, including mazes, scavenger hunts and trivia questions (don’t tell the children that a former teacher wrote the questions). High scores will earn you Kinzcash, which can be used to buy more clothing or furniture for your pet’s house. One stuffed animal entitles you to a year of online play time. WARREN BUCKLEITNER
628 2007-01-25 Pakistan's prime minister, Shaukat Aziz, acknowledged Wednesday that people sympathetic to the Taliban were active in the frontier regions near the border with Afghanistan. But he insisted that the root of the problem was the Afghan government's w...
629 2007-01-25 MELBOURNE -- When the reinvigorated Andy Roddick stepped on court Thursday to face his longtime tormentor Roger Federer, the consensus at the Australian Open was that spectators were in for a special evening.     That turned out to be true, but no...
630 2007-01-25 Ann Gish, a high-end bedding company, is holding a sale of discontinued items from Feb. 5 through Feb. 10. Silk duvet covers will be $200 to $350 in queen and king sizes (originally $800 to $1,700), and silk throw pillows will be $20 to $110 (orig...
631 2007-01-25 INFLUENCE OF HEDGE FUNDS -- Hedge fund executives are playing an increasing role in presidential politics, not just for the money they donate, but also for the access they offer to other donors. [Page A1.]    FEDERAL DEFICIT FORECAST -- The nonpar...
632 2007-01-25 The Democratic majority in the House restored limited floor voting rights to the Congressional delegates from the District of Columbia and four territories on Wednesday after a rancorous debate with echoes of the days before the Republicans won th...
633 2007-01-26 John Thain, chief executive of the NYSE Group, offered up some sobering words Friday about the explosive rise of private equity, which has swept many publicly traded companies off of the world’s major exchanges. He said, in effect: They’ll com...
634 2007-01-26 I leave the Valentino show (dreamy white dresses in Robert Ryman textures) and go with my driver, Bernard Alloux, to Chanel....
635 2007-01-26 Fairly or not, hedge funds have a bit of a reputation problem in some circles. They are often used as cultural shorthand for fast, risky money. Just this week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel referred to hedge funds a "headache" in a speech to the...
636 2007-01-26 In what is its really, truly, final offer, Nasdaq said Friday that it would extend its deadline for London Stock Exchange shareholders to accept its 2.7 billion pound ($5.3 billion) merger offer. That bid will now expire Feb. 10, pushed back from ...
637 2007-01-26 John Thain, chief executive of the NYSE Group, offered up some sobering words Friday about the explosive rise of private equity, which has swept many publicly traded companies off of the world's major exchanges. He said, in effect: They'll come ba...
638 2007-01-26 MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -- Serena Williams won her eighth and most improbable Grand Slam title, overwhelming top-seeded Maria Sharapova 6-1, 6-2 in the Australian Open on Saturday.

Williams became only the second unseeded woman to win the Australian title in the Open era. She came into the tournament ranked No. 81 after spending most of last season on the sidelines with a knee injury.

It was her first title in 15 tournaments since winning the 2005 Australian Open.

It was the most dominating win in a completed championship match at Melbourne Park since Steffi Graf beat Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario 6-0, 6-2 in 1994.
639 2007-01-26 A federal judge on Thursday dismissed a lawsuit against Hewlett-Packard by a former executive who claimed the computer maker obtained his phone records illegally. H.P. has accused Karl Lamb of stealing trade secrets to start up his own flat-panel ...
640 2007-01-26 Anger at the president after not mentioning Hurricane Katrina in the State of the Union address....
641 2007-01-26 Something worth seeing on the really small screen....
642 2007-01-26 Nasdaq said it will not raise its 2.7 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) offer for London Stock Exchange, as the clock runs down on the bid. The U.S. stock market said Friday that the L.S.E. has not responded to its offer, and now "there is now insuffi...
643 2007-01-26 Lazard awarded Chairman and Chief Executive Bruce Wasserstein $18 million in restricted shares, 80 percent more than a year earlier, after the stock rose 48 percent in 2006, according to a federal filing. Mr. Wasserstein, received 359,425 shares o...
644 2007-01-26 There's no question that hedge funds and private equity investments have dominated the business headlines for the last year. But, asks Fortune, does that mean that individuals are actually flocking to these high-risk, high-return funds? The, answe...
645 2007-01-26 Credit Suisse has revamped its stock-based bonus plan in an attempt to retain staff earning more than $100,000 a year, Financial News reported. The new plan will affect more than 25 percent of the firm's employees, mostly those working in the inve...
646 2007-01-26 EMI Group, the flagging British music conglomerate, reorganized its American unit Thursday by merging the operations of its two main record labels and ousting the president of Capitol Records, the bigger of the two. The moves were the most notable...
647 2007-01-26 “Breaking and Entering,” the latest film by Anthony Minghella, climaxes in a welter of apologies. Everyone in London, it seems, has cause for remorse — the burglar, the philanderer, the seamstress, the budding gymnast — and for my part I regret that I lost count of the number of times the words “I’m sorry” were uttered on screen.

In any case, the apology is a notoriously tricky speech act, one that frequently involves expedient self-exculpation rather than a genuine plea for forgiveness from another. And the festival of bad feelings that wraps up Mr. Minghella’s well-intentioned tale of modern miscommunication is clearly meant to soothe rather than to trouble the conscience. A schematic exercise in liberal, privileged guilt — in the tradition of “Crash” and “Grand Canyon,” but without the prepackaged Southern California anomie — “Breaking and Entering” moves through a series of moral and social crises as if they were yoga poses and comes to rest with a smile of virtuous complacency on its face.

The star of the movie is Jude Law, who is perhaps too adept for his own good at portraying an entitled, narcissistic charmer. Handsome, physically graceful and articulate (except when a Hugh Grant-like stammer serves his purposes better), Mr. Law plays Will, a successful architect whose firm has opened a spacious new office in the rough-edged King’s Cross section of North London. Will shares a sleek town house with Liv (Robin Wright Penn), his half-Swedish girlfriend of many years, and her 13-year-old daughter, Bea (Poppy Rogers), who has autism. We now pause to consider the allegorical significance of these characters’ names. Time’s up.

Bea’s condition, Liv’s remoteness and Will’s absorption in his work combine to put a strain on their domestic relations, and Will’s nerves are further shaken by a series of break-ins at the office. One of the perpetrators is an acrobatic teenager named Miro (Rafi Gavron), a Bosnian refugee, half Muslim and half Serb, who lives with his mother, Amira (Juliette Binoche), in a battered housing project. When Will discovers Miro’s involvement in the robberies, he does what any tormented bobo architect would do in his place, namely, has sex with the boy’s mother.

It seems to be an axiom of Mr. Minghella’s practice as a filmmaker that, in each of his movies, exactly one person is allowed to be funny. (Rueful irony, of the sort practiced by both Will and his partner, Sandy, played by Martin Freeman, doesn’t count.) In “The Talented Mr. Ripley,” the job fell to the lucky Mr. Law; in “Cold Mountain,” Renée Zellweger got the assignment. (“The English Patient” would appear to be an exception to the rule.) Here, happily, the task belongs to Vera Farmiga, playing a Russian prostitute who shows up in Will’s car to drink coffee, squirm to some loud music and discuss the themes of the movie.

Sadly, she doesn’t stick around for very long, and Will’s sexual attention turns to Amira, who is not funny at all, though Ms. Binoche does what she can to infuse her gloom with a touch of warmth. Sandy, meanwhile, gingerly acts on his infatuation with one of the office cleaners (Caroline Chikezie) — “Lattes have been drunk,” he announces, which means that they’re dating. I guess the best way for entitled, liberal Englishmen to address the problem of inequality is to sleep their way down the social ladder. Perhaps they should even get a tax deduction for doing so.
648 2007-01-26 Use of Genentech’s new eye drug, Lucentis, might raise the risk of stroke, according to a letter the company has begun sending to doctors.

In the letter, Genentech said that interim data from a clinical trial showed that 1.2 percent of patients treated with a high dose of Lucentis had a stroke — compared with 0.3 percent of patients treated with a low dose. The difference is considered statistically significant.

The new findings could conceivably dampen some demand for Lucentis, because the high dose, 0.5 milligrams per injection, is the one that is marketed.

Approved to treat age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in the elderly, Lucentis is the first drug shown in clinical trials to improve eyesight for a significant number of patients, as opposed to merely slowing the rate of vision loss.

Still some doctors said today that the results were preliminary — the patients had been followed for an average of 230 days since starting treatment — and that while they would monitor the situation they would wait for the final results from a full year of the study.

“Right now, it will have no impact on my use of Lucentis,” said Dr. Philip J. Rosenfeld, a retina specialist at the University of Miami’s Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. “When given a choice between 100 percent blindness or a 1 percent risk of stroke, I think most patients will choose their vision.”
649 2007-01-26 A summary of top stories in Russian newspapers on Friday.

RUSSIA CLASHES WITH COUNCIL OF EUROPE: The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe addressed on Thursday Russia’s refusal to ratify amendments to the European Convention on human rights. Russia was the only country in the Council of Europe not to ratify changes, which would help the court to hear more cases by creating a mechanism to filter out inadmissible appeals and increasing the court’s term of appointment from six to nine years. The State Duma has complained that the changes could be used to discriminate against Russia, and Thursday continued its resistance. The Parliamentary Assembly did pass a resolution on threats to journalists and freedom of opinion, which, the newspaper said, Russia may also consider unfriendly considering the number of high-profile murders of journalists in the country.

RUSSIA EXPERIMENTS WITH HOUSE ARREST: The Federal Prisons Service has sent draft legislation to the State Duma that would help to create a system of house arrest in Russia, a form of punishment not yet employed in the country. Under the project, people convicted of insignificant crimes would remain free, but under constant surveillance with the help of special electronic bracelets. Out of Russia’s 870,000 prisoners, from 30,000 to 250,000 would be eligible to take part in the project if federal and local legislatures approve it.

RUSSIA’S BIGGEST PIRATE: The case of a school director in rural Siberia, in which he is accused of outfitting his school with computers equipped with illegally copied Microsoft software, has Russia weighing its campaign against piracy against the realities of poor village life. In May 2006, prosecutors confiscated the school’s 12 computers and charged its director, Aleksandr Ponosov, with piracy. Microsoft agreed to return the computers with licensed software for about $1,700, a sum the school can barely afford. Though Microsoft has refrained from pressing charges against Mr. Ponosov, Russian authorities nevertheless began his trial on January 9.

A PRAGMATIC FOREIGN POLICY: Russia’s recent push to strengthen relations with India, Algeria and Venezuela looks similar to Soviet foreign policy on its face, according to an editorial, but is far more pragmatic. Russia has signed lucrative deals with these three countries and others in the energy and weapons spheres. This has unnerved Europe and the United States, which fear the rise of an OPEC of gas. Russia, however, has neither the intent nor the ability to create such an alliance, according to the newspaper.

RUSSIA TO BUILD OIL REFINERY FOR ARMENIA: Officials at Gazprom Neft said Thursday that the company was considering the construction of an oil refinery on the border between Armenia and Iran. The refinery could benefit Iran during possible attacks by the United States, the newspaper wrote, and news of its construction would likely strain U.S.-Russian relations. Presumably, the multimillion dollar project would be aimed at strengthening Armenia both politically and economically.

WASHINGTON TO PREPARE NEW SANCTIONS FOR RUSSIA: The American State Department said Wednesday that it would review Russia’s plans to deliver to Iran the Tor M-1 missile system and possibly impose sanctions if warranted. Though the missiles are incapable of carrying nuclear warheads, they could pose a danger to aircraft. The newspaper said any new sanctions would be senseless, since the United States has already sanctioned Russia’s weapons export agency, Rosoboronexport, which distributes the missile systems.
650 2007-01-26 Six high school girls were charged with homicide conspiracy after their principal found a list of 300 names and officials discovered online postings suggesting that they kill people, the authorities said. School officials said the list, discovered in a classroom trash can, mostly named students and faculty members but also included Tom Cruise and Oprah Winfrey. The principal, Tommy Layne of Sequatchie County High School, about 40 miles northwest of Chattanooga, said that he initially considered it a joke, but that authorities then found the ninth-graders’ online MySpace pages and postings that included the word “kill.” The girls, ages 14 and 15, were charged with conspiracy to commit criminal homicide late Wednesday and taken to a juvenile facility.
651 2007-01-26 Microsoft’s video game business surged in the quarter, as revenue grew 75 percent, to $2.96 billion, helped by strong year-end sales of its Xbox 360 console and hit games like Gears of War.

Sales of server software used in corporate data centers also continued to sell strongly, with revenue up 17 percent, to $2.85 billion. Operating profit rose 35 percent, to more than $1 billion. The server group — operating systems, databases and back-end programs for e-mail systems — has become a third strong business for Microsoft, in addition to the lucrative Windows and Office.

“This is a pretty strong quarter with nearly all of the businesses contributing,” said Charles di Bona, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

Net income fell 28 percent, to $2.63 billion, from $3.65 billion in the period a year earlier, with the fall-off attributable to the deferring of revenue.

To help the personal computer industry cope with the product delay, Microsoft offered free or discount coupons for upgrades to Windows Vista and Office 2007. That allowed PC makers to sell new computers late last year with the promise that users would be able to upgrade to the new Microsoft products, and prevent PC sales from stalling.

Microsoft did not recognize the Windows or Office revenue from those machines until users purchased the upgrade coupons or decided to use the older software.

The accounting treatment trimmed 11 cents a share from earnings in the December quarter, leaving them at 26 cents a share. That was 3 cents a share higher than the Wall Street consensus of 23 cents, as compiled by Thomson First Call. Microsoft had announced the coupon program in October, and said that about $1.5 billion in revenue would be deferred. The higher $1.64 billion figure reflected stronger PC sales than Microsoft anticipated.

The revenue deferred from the December quarter will be recognized this period. The deferral, analysts say, is simply an accounting shift from one quarter to the next, adding about 12 cents a share in the current quarter.

Microsoft said it expected revenue this quarter of $13.7 billion to $14 billion, and earnings of 45 cents or 46 cents a share, in line with analysts’ expectations. For the 2007 fiscal year, which ends in June, Microsoft said its revenue would reach $50.2 billion to $50.7 billion, while profit would be $1.45 to $1.47 a share.

The company is betting heavily on the consumer electronics business for future growth, and late last year it introduced a digital media player, Zune, which competes with Apple’s iPod. But Microsoft’s consumer entertainment and devices unit contributes no profits yet, losing $289 million in the quarter.

Microsoft’s online business also remained a weak spot, struggling especially in Internet searches. In the quarter, Microsoft lost market share in searching, with Google widening its lead against Yahoo and Microsoft. “We’re clearly not happy with that,” Mr. Liddell, the chief financial officer, said. “But we continue to take a long-term view and we continue to invest.”

Online services revenue, which includes display advertising on the Web and search-linked ads, rose 5 percent in the quarter, to $624 million. The unit reported an operating loss of $155 million.
652 2007-01-26 After the proposed starting date in 2009, the administration estimates, about 80 percent of workers with employer-provided policies would pay lower taxes and 20 percent would pay higher taxes, unless they reduced the value of their health coverage to fit within the standard deduction.

The new standard deduction would almost certainly entice some people to buy health insurance who had previously elected not to. But a tax deduction is of little value to people so poor that they pay little or no income tax. And unfortunately, it is those people who account for the vast majority of the nation’s uninsured.

Instead of trying to fix that fundamental flaw, the administration has decided instead to buck it to the states. The White House has offered few details. But its idea is to allow states to redirect federal money that now helps to finance hospitals that provide charity care and use it instead to subsidize health insurance for the poor.

In an ideal world, it would make good sense to insure people in advance rather than wait for them to show up in a high-cost emergency room. But this plan could quickly cripple the safety-net hospitals. Fortunately, no governor would have to accept the offer to redirect funds. The scheme is mostly a reflection of how the administration is unwilling to accept true responsibility for the uninsured.

If the administration really wanted to help low-income people, it would have proposed a refundable tax credit that would have the same dollar value for everyone — instead of a tax deduction, which primarily helps people in high tax brackets. Even those who do not pay taxes would get a check for the dollar value of the credit, providing them at least some money to help pay for health insurance. Congress ought to recognize that credits are the better approach for even such a limited plan.

As for the tax increases on those “gold plated” health policies, the White House is hoping to discourage people from using high-priced comprehensive health policies that cover everything from routine office visits to costly diagnostic procedures that are not always necessary.

The administration’s goal is to instead encourage people to take out policies that might reduce the use of medical services, like policies with high deductibles or co-payments, or managed care plans. But even “copper plated” policies can exceed $15,000 in cost if they are issued in areas where medical prices are high or to groups with high numbers of older or chronically ill workers.

The whole approach rests on the premise that comprehensive prepaid health policies are a major factor in driving up costs; the theory is that people will tend to use services if they are covered. There is probably some truth in that.

But the main drivers in rising health costs are the costly services, high-priced drugs and hospitalizations for people who are seriously ill with catastrophic diseases or multiple chronic illnesses. Making their health coverage less generous would simply make it harder for them to get the care they need.

The greatest risk in the president’s proposal is that it would seem likely to lead many small- and medium-size employers to stop offering health benefits altogether on the theory that their workers could buy affordable insurance on their own. That would leave many more Americans at the mercy of the dysfunctional individual policy market, where administrative costs are high and insurers strive to avoid covering people who are apt to become sick and need costly care.

For all its fanfare, Mr. Bush’s plan would be unlikely to reduce the ranks of the uninsured very much. And if things went badly, it could actually increase their numbers. That’s not the answer Americans are waiting for and not what they deserve.
653 2007-01-26 The latest trial was an attempt by Amgen to expand the use of Aranesp to a new group of patients: those with anemia presumably caused by their cancer. Aranesp is now approved to treat anemia caused by cancer chemotherapy but not by the cancer itself.

The 1,000 patients in the trial had active cancer, meaning they were not in remission, but were not getting chemotherapy or radiation therapy. The goal of the trial was to see if Aranesp could reduce the need for blood transfusions, which anemic people frequently require.

The company found that the drug did not reduce the need for transfusions compared with a placebo, but did increase the number of deaths by the end of 16 weeks by a statistically significant amount.

Amgen, which did not provide any numerical results from the trial, said in a news release that in this particular population the “risk/benefit ratio for Aranesp use is at best neutral and perhaps negative.”

While such use of Aranesp is not approved, doctors do use it off label for that purpose. On a conference call Thursday with securities analysts, George Morrow, Amgen’s executive vice president for global commercial operations, estimated that about 10 percent to 12 percent of Aranesp sales are for such “anemia of cancer.”

Amgen announced the results of the trial along with its fourth-quarter earnings after the close of trading. The company’s shares fell by $2.37, or 3 percent, to $72.48 in after-hours trading, after closing in regular trading at $74.85, down 29 cents.

Several factors could have contributed to the shares’ decline besides the trial results. Amgen’s earnings per share, excluding special items, while up 20 percent for the quarter, were below analyst estimates. The company also announced somewhat disappointing results in a clinical trial involving Vectibix, its recently approved colon cancer drug.

Still, some analysts on the conference call were clearly concerned that the Aranesp results could lead to a cutback in use of Aranesp and Epogen. The two drugs accounted for $6.6 billion, or 46 percent, of Amgen’s $14.3 billion in 2006 revenue.

Amgen executives said that the trial was not intended to measure survival, so it was possible that the patients in the group that received Aranesp might have had a greater risk of dying to begin with than those in the placebo group. They said the results could not be extrapolated to other types of patients, like those getting chemotherapy or those with kidney disease.

Still, Kevin Sharer, Amgen’s chief executive, conceded it was possible that the growing concerns over safety could lead to the drugs’ being given a black-box warning, the strongest kind.

In 2003 Johnson & Johnson halted several studies of Procrit in cancer patients after they developed a higher-than-expected number of blood clots. In those trials, doctors were trying to treat the anemia more aggressively in hopes that an increase in oxygen in the blood would increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
654 2007-01-26 In ordinary civil suits, the parties’ submissions are sent to their adversaries and are available to the public in open court files. But in several cases challenging the eavesdropping, Justice Department lawyers have been submitting legal papers not by filing them in court but by placing them in a room at the department. They have filed papers, in other words, with themselves.

At the meeting this month, judges on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit asked how the procedures might affect the integrity of the files and the appellate records.

In response, Joan B. Kennedy, a Justice Department official, submitted, in one of the department’s unclassified filings, a detailed seven-page sworn statement last Friday defending the practices.

“The documents reviewed by the court have not been altered and will not be altered,” Ms. Kennedy wrote, and they “will be preserved securely as part of the record of this case.”

Some cases challenging the program, which monitored international communications of people in the United States without court approval, have also involved atypical maneuvering. Soon after one suit challenging the program was filed last year in Oregon, Justice Department lawyers threatened to seize an exhibit from the court file.

This month, in the same case, the department sought to inspect and delete files from the computers on which lawyers for the plaintiffs had prepared their legal filings.

The tactics, said a lawyer in the Oregon case, Jon B. Eisenberg, prompted him to conduct unusual research.

“Sometime during all of this,” Mr. Eisenberg said, “I went on Amazon and ordered a copy of Kafka’s ‘The Trial,’ because I needed a refresher course in bizarre legal procedures.”

A federal district judge in the case, Garr M. King, invoked another book after a government lawyer refused to disclose whether he had a certain security clearance, saying information about the clearance was itself classified.

“Frankly, your response,” Judge King said, “is kind of an Alice in Wonderland response.”

Questions about the secret filings may figure in the first appellate argument in the challenges, before the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, on Wednesday. The three judges who will hear the appeal met with lawyers for the Justice Department and the American Civil Liberties Union on Jan. 8 in a judge’s chambers in Memphis.

“The court raised questions about the procedures the government had used to file classified submissions in the case and the propriety and integrity of those procedures,” said Ms. Beeson, associate legal director of the A.C.L.U., which represents the plaintiffs in the appeal.

“They were also concerned about the independence of the judiciary,” given that “the Justice Department retains custody and total control over the court filings.” Ms. Beeson said.

Nancy S. Marder, a law professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law and an authority on secrecy in litigation, said the tactics were really extreme and deeply, deeply troubling.

“These are the basics that we take for granted in our court system,” Professor Marder said. “You have two parties. You exchange documents. The documents you’ve seen don’t disappear.”

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Dean Boyd, said employees involved in storing the classified documents were independent of the litigators and provided “neutral assistance” to courts in handling sensitive information. The documents, Mr. Boyd said, are “stored securely and without alteration.”

The appellate argument in Cincinnati will almost certainly also concern the effects of the administration announcement last week that it would submit the program to a secret court, ending its eavesdropping without warrants.

In a brief filed on Thursday, the government said the move made the case against the program moot.

Ms. Beeson of the A.C.L.U. said the government was wrong.

At least one case, the one in Oregon, is probably not moot. It goes beyond the other cases in seeking damages from the government, because the plaintiffs say they have seen proof that they were wiretapped without a warrant.

In August 2004, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which was investigating an Oregon charity, al-Haramain Islamic Foundation, inadvertently provided a copy of a classified document to a foundation lawyer, Lynne Bernabei.

That document indicated, according to court filings, that the government monitored communications between officers of the charity and two of its lawyers without a warrant in spring 2004.

“If I gave you this document today and you put it on the front page of The New York Times, it would not threaten national security,” Mr. Eisenberg, a lawyer for the foundation, said. “There is only one thing about it that’s explosive, and that’s the fact that our clients were wiretapped.”

Ms. Bernabei circulated the document to two directors of the charity, at least one of them in Saudi Arabia, and to three other lawyers. She discussed them with two more lawyers. A reporter for The Washington Post, David B. Ottaway, also reviewed the document.

The full significance of the document was apparently not clear to any recipient, more than a year before The New York Times disclosed the existence of the N.S.A. program in December 2005.

The F.B.I. learned of the disclosure almost immediately in August 2004, Judge King said at a court hearing last year, but made no effort to retrieve copies of the document for about six weeks.

When it did, everyone it asked apparently returned all copies of the document. In a statement reported in The Post in March, for instance, Mr. Ottaway said he the F.B.I. had told him that the document had “highly sensitive national security information.”

“I returned it after consulting with Washington Post editors and lawyers, and concluding that it was not relevant to what I was working on at the time,” Mr. Ottaway said.

In a sworn statement in June, a lawyer who had the document, Asim Ghafoor, said the bureau took custody of his laptop computer “in order that the document might be ‘scrubbed’ from it.”

The computer was returned weeks later.

In February 2006, the charity and the two lawyers who say they were wiretapped sued to stop the program, requesting financial damages. They attached a copy of the classified document, filing it under seal. They have not said how they came to have a copy.

Three weeks later, the lawyers for the foundation received a call from two Justice Department lawyers. The classified document “had not been properly secured,” the lawyers said, according to a letter from the plaintiffs’ lawyers to the judge.

As Mr. Eisenberg recalled it, the government lawyers said, “The F.B.I. is on its way to the courthouse to take possession of the document from the judge.”

But Judge King, at a hurriedly convened hearing, would not yield it, and asked, “What if I say I will not deliver it to the F.B.I.?”

A Justice Department lawyer, Anthony J. Coppolino, gave a measured response, saying: “Your Honor, we obviously don’t want to have any kind of a confrontation with you. But it has to be secured in a proper fashion.”

The document was ultimately deposited in a “secure compartmented information facility” at the bureau office in Portland.

In the meantime, copies of the document appear to have been sent abroad, and the government concedes that it has made no efforts to contact people overseas who it suspects have them.

“It’s probably gone many, many places,” Judge King said of the document at the August hearing. “Who is it secret from?”

A Justice Department lawyer, Andrew H. Tannenbaum, replied, “It’s secret from anyone who has not seen it.”

He added, “The document must be completely removed from the case, and plaintiffs are not allowed to rely on it to prove their claims.”

Judge King wondered aloud about the implications of that position, saying, “There is nothing in the law that requires them to purge their memory.”

Mr. Eisenberg, in an interview, said that was precisely the government position. “They claim they own the portions of our brains that remember anything,” he said.

In a decision in September, Judge King ruled that the plaintiffs were not entitled to review the document again but could rely on their recollections of it. In October, they filed a motion for summary judgment, a routine step in many civil litigations. In a sealed filing, they described the classified document.

Government lawyers sent Judge King a letter saying the plaintiffs had “mishandled information contained in the classified document” by, among other actions, preparing filings on their own computers.

In a telephone conference on Nov. 1, Judge King appeared unpersuaded. “My problem with your statement,” he told Mr. Tannenbaum, “is that you assume you are absolutely correct in everything you are stating, and I am not sure that you are.”

Mr. Boyd of the Justice Department said the government “continues to explore with counsel ways in which the classified information may be properly protected without any intrusion on the attorney-client privilege.”
655 2007-01-26 They go into Saturday’s long program hoping to capture the three world championships berths.

In the men’s competition, Evan Lysacek celebrated a victory in the short program with an emotional performance, pumping his fists after landing a combination jump and doing a victory lap after he finished his first clean short program in more than a year.

Lysacek has been trying for the past three years to knock Johnny Weir off the top of the American men’s field, and overcoming a three-time champion is nearly impossible without a solid short program, the one thing that has been eluding him.

“Today, I was so, so happy and relieved I can’t put it into words,” Lysacek said. “It was just one of those days I had to give it to myself and say, ‘Alright this was fun, this was good, this was a step in the right direction.’ ”

His score of 78.99 held up for first place, ahead of a slightly shaky Weir who scored 78.14. Ryan Bradley finished in third place at 73.58. They will decide the title in Saturday night’s long program.

Oddly enough, both Lysacek and Weir tackled this competition with an underdog’s mentality. Weir has been struggling with what he calls a “hip/butt” injury and has admittedly not competed well this season. Lysacek, although he finished ahead of Weir in both the world championships and the Olympics last year — he was third at worlds and fourth in the Olympics to Weir’s seventh and fifth — started to think of the short program as a mental block. And he has never topped Weir at the nationals.

“I think I’m ready to represent the United States Figure Skating, especially the men’s field, on every level,” Lysacek said. “With my complete heart and soul, I’d be the best athlete and representative that I could be.”

Lysacek then followed by insisting that was not a slap at Weir, but clearly, the 21-year-old Lysacek was differentiating himself from his flamboyant rival, not something that takes much effort. Just sitting next to each other at the press conference was a study in contrast. Lysacek wore a black warmup suit. Weir had a high-collared black coat and a fuzzy wrap around his waist. Weir recently posed for photos in BlackBook Magazine in provocative, shirtless poses and wearing high heels.

Weir, 22, has always been unapologetic about his personality. And he said that he and Lysacek do get along, outside of events like this.

“At competitions, we’re not friends,” Weir said. “I have my objective and he has his objective and that’s healthy. I wouldn’t want to have a friend sitting next to me in the locker room talking about American Idol and curling each other’s hair.”

“But when we’re away from competitions and there isn’t all this stress and hype going on around us, we’re kind of cool.”

The only contrast that will matter in Saturday’s long program is the level of their performances. They are both planning a quad jump, which neither has landed in competition.

Among the women, Meissner is clearly ahead of the field here in technical ability, even though she will not attempt the triple Axel. In 2005, she became the first American woman to land one since Tonya Harding did in 1993.

Meissner admits it has been an adjustment to take center stage here without the estimable Kwan and Cohen, neither of whom have retired officially but both took this season off from competition.

Meissner said she misses them.

“I do because I’ve always watched them,” she said. “The one year I competed against Michelle I really enjoyed it and obviously competing against Sasha, I like that competition. But there’s some good competition here now. This is just the new generation.”

The new generation includes Hughes, who will turn 18 today and has spent her fall applying to college, and Liang, who began skating on the senior level when she was 12 and is 18 now.

Hughes is trying to steady herself after an uneven season and said she accomplished all she could hope for in the short program.

“I feel that coming into this as the bronze medalist, I got the experience at worlds and the Olympics and a few Grand Prixs and I’ve learned a lot in the past year that I can use for Saturday,” Hughes said. “The standing ovation is something I want to feel again.”
656 2007-01-26 Amid one of the biggest building booms in New York City’s history, the construction industry may soon have trouble finding enough young workers to fill all the jobs, a leading industry group said yesterday.

The group, the New York Building Congress, said that of the overall building industry’s 275,000 employees in the city, a growing number of them are young immigrants. Just a few years after a post-9/11 slump in construction, the building industry is starting to worry that immigration laws may restrict future growth.

“One of the great implications here is the importance of immigration,” said Richard T. Anderson, president of the building congress, whose members include large construction companies and design and real estate firms. “We have a big stake in reasonable immigration legislation.”

Of the 275,000 workers, 123,000 are in construction, according to a report the group released yesterday. That number has risen almost 15 percent since 2004, which marked the end of a three-year downturn, and is higher than the previous peak reached in 2001, according to State Labor Department figures.

Contrary to conventional wisdom, Mr. Anderson said, the typical construction worker in the city is not an older, white suburbanite who commutes, but a younger city resident who is almost as likely to have been born abroad as in America.

In the last 10 years, Mr. Anderson said, the average age of construction workers in the city has dropped to 40 from 51. Almost half of them, 47 percent, were born abroad, he said.
657 2007-01-26 The issue is already heating up in Colorado. This month, two Republican representatives in Colorado asked the state to examine the University of Colorado’s spending on diversity, after a libertarian group questioned the expenditures.

Mr. Connerly said that a decade ago, when California passed its ban, Proposition 209, he thought the state was ahead of its time, but that now, he believes “the country is poised to make a decision about race, about what its place in American life is going to be — and I really believe the popular vote may be the way to achieve that.”

Both defenders and opponents of affirmative action say the lesson of last fall’s campaign in Michigan — where Proposition 2, banning race and gender preferences in public education, employment and contracting, passed by 58 percent to 42 percent despite strong opposition from government, business, labor, education and religious leaders — is that such initiatives can succeed almost anywhere.

“Certain things become popular as state initiatives, like the ban on gay marriages, and restrictions on affirmative action could become one of those things,” said Terry Hartle, senior vice president for government and public affairs at the American Council on Education.

If so, he said, private universities, with their wide discretion in admissions and financial aid, could have a competitive advantage regarding diversity, reshaping the landscape of higher education.

“Private universities can do whatever they want, consistent with federal law and the Supreme Court,” Mr. Hartle said. “Where minority students have a choice between selective public universities that cannot use affirmative action, and selective private universities with strong affirmative action programs, the private universities may seem like the more hospitable places, which would give them an advantage in drawing a diverse student body.”

To many educators, that would be a troubling turnabout.

“You’d think public universities are charged with special responsibility for ensuring access, but it could come to be exactly the opposite, if there are a lot of these state initiatives,” said Evan Caminker, the dean of the University of Michigan Law School, adding, “in terms of public values, it’s a big step backward.”

Mr. Connerly is unbothered: If black and Hispanic students are rare at selective universities, the solution is better academic preparation, not special treatment in admissions. “Every individual should have the same opportunity to compete,” he said. “I don’t worry about the outcomes.”

Legally, affirmative action has been a moving target. In 2003, the Supreme Court ruled in cases involving the University of Michigan that race could be one of many factors in admissions, although admissions offices could not give extra points to minority candidates. Many colleges nationwide then moved to “holistic” review, considering applicants’ ethnicity, but not awarding a set number of points. In states that could face a ballot initiative campaign, though, that standard could fall.

Nationwide, after 30 years of debate, and litigation, over affirmative action, universities have made strikingly little progress toward racially representative student bodies. And recently, with growing awareness that affluent students are vastly overrepresented at selective colleges, the longstanding focus on racial diversity has been joined by a growing concern about economic diversity.

Currently, four states with highly ranked public universities — California, Florida, Michigan and Washington — forbid racial preferences, either because of ballot propositions or decisions by elected officials.

Texas banned affirmative action for seven years. The University of Texas resumed consideration of race after the 2003 United States Supreme Court ruling. “We need every tool we can get,” concluded Dr. Bruce Walker, the university’s director of admissions.

In California and Texas, the first two states to ban racial preferences, underrepresented minorities at the flagship universities declined — even though both states, and Florida, adopted plans giving a percentage of top high school graduates guaranteed admission to state universities.

In Texas, students admitted through the Top 10 percent plan swamped the flagship Austin campus. But the plan, now being rethought by the Legislature, never brought in many minority students. Last fall, with both race-conscious admissions and the Top 10 plan, blacks made up an all-time high of 5 percent of the freshman class, and Hispanics 19 percent.

A decade after the California ban, only 2 percent of this year’s freshmen at the University of California, Los Angeles, are black: a 30-year low. Hispanic representation at U.C.L.A. has dropped, too. At Berkeley, the number of blacks in the freshman class plunged by half the year after the ban, and the number of Hispanics nearly as much.

Systemwide, blacks make up only 3 percent of U.C. freshmen, although about 7 percent of the state’s high school graduates are black. Most top black students choose private institutions over state campuses. Over all, of the top third of all students offered admission to the University of California class of 2005, most enrolled and only 19 percent went instead to selective private colleges. But among blacks in that group, 51 percent chose selective private colleges. Meanwhile, up the coast, Stanford University is enrolling more underrepresented minority students. Among this year’s freshmen, 11 percent are African-American, up from 8 percent in 1995; Hispanic enrollment has risen, too.

“Folks look for a place that’s comfortable,” said Richard Shaw, Stanford’s admissions dean. “They want a sense that there’s kids like them at the institution.”

The University of Michigan, with other state institutions, tried to win a delay of the ban so it would not hit in the middle of this year’s admissions cycle. But the courts rejected this effort, so officials have stopped considering race and gender as factors in admissions, and worry that next year’s entering class will be less diverse. Many officials worry that they will lose top minority candidates to selective private universities.

“We know from colleagues in Texas and California that if we can’t take race into account, we’re at a competitive disadvantage,” said Julie Peterson, a spokeswoman for the University of Michigan, where two-thirds of the applicants are from out of state.

Since most of Michigan is overwhelmingly white, said Mary Sue Coleman, the university’s president, a plan guaranteeing admission to a percentage of top high school graduates would have little impact, and nothing short of affirmative action will maintain the university’s racial diversity.

“Of course, you want to look at family income, and being the first in the family to attend college and those kinds of factors, of course we do that, but it doesn’t get us to a racially diverse student body,” Dr. Coleman said.

At the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, a program guaranteeing that low-income students can graduate debt-free helped to increase the percentage of blacks in the freshman class to 12 percent, and to increase both economic diversity and the enrollment of underrepresented minority students. Other states have started similar programs.

In Detroit, Wayne State University Law School recently adopted a new admissions policy. Jonathan Weinberg, the professor assigned last year to draft a contingency policy, looked at other states with race-blind admissions and found that instead of race, they look to “a set of broader diversity concerns that go to socioeconomic status.”

Last month, the faculty adopted his policy, eliminating any mention of race, but broadening the factors the admissions office may consider. Those include being the first in the family to go to college or graduate school; having overcome substantial obstacles, including prejudice and discrimination; being multilingual; and residence abroad, in Detroit or on an Indian reservation.

Frank Wu, the law school’s dean, said Wayne State’s effort to comply with the law could bring a legal challenge.

“There’s a new fight building,” Mr. Wu said, “and that’s going to be whether the mere fact that you’re striving for diversity means you’re somehow trying to get around the ban and find proxies, or pretexts, for race, and that that’s impermissible. It’s ironic, but in some quarters our effort to adopt a new policy to comply with Prop 2 has been interpreted as an effort to circumvent it.”

Roger Clegg, president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, which opposes racial preferences, said policies like Wayne State’s do raise questions.

“I have a real problem when schools adopt what on their face are race-neutral criteria, if they are doing so to reach a predetermined racial and ethnic goal,” Mr. Clegg said. “Both in law and in common sense, the motivation matters.”

At Ohio State University, where admissions are increasingly selective, officials are looking for a long-term answer. “When we saw what was coming down the road, we started looking to other models, but no other model results in as much diversity,” said Mabel Freeman, assistant vice president at Ohio State. “The only long-term solution is to do better in the pipeline and make sure all kids get the best education possible, K-12.”
658 2007-01-26 As the nation’s first post-World War II suburb, Long Island flourished for decades as a middle-income alternative to New York City and is now home to nearly three million people.

Factors contributing to the affordability problem include the loss of higher-paying jobs and growth of lower-paying ones. A decade ago, wages here exceeded the national average by 16 percent; that has shrunk to 5 percent, and average pay has stagnated since 2003.

At the same time, the number of residents using food stamps rose 20 percent from 2000 to 2003, the most recent data available.

“Now our income advantage is disappearing, pushing some families near the breaking point,” the report says. In the report’s survey of 808 residents, 58 percent complained of difficulty paying their monthly housing bills, while 54 percent said they were thinking of abandoning Long Island for lower-cost areas. Still, 82 percent called Long Island a good or excellent place to live, but only 48 percent said it was on the right track.

“I find it hard living on just a pension and Social Security, and I feel bad for the younger people,” said John Schnitzler, a retired banker in East Meadow, N.Y. Still, Mr. Schnitzler said he enjoyed his three-bedroom home and being “45 minutes from the city, 10 minutes to the beach, with the malls right here.”

The report, sponsored by the Garden City-based Rauch Foundation, has been produced annually since 2004, with the advice of academic, civic, labor and other groups.

“Taken as a whole, Long Island’s story has been a success story,” it says. “But our continued success is now in doubt. We face significant problems, which yearly grow worse.”

In a competitive economy, the report warned, Long Island will lose out to other areas unless it expands business and housing and reduces taxes. “In an era of easy mobility, a region defers change at its peril,” it said.

The 2.5-times-income formula for home prices is often ignored across the New York metropolitan area, where many residents spend disproportionately for shelter and shortchange other parts of their budget compared with other parts of the country.

The report did not adjust housing prices for changing mortgage rates, which were about two percentage points higher in 2000. But Ms. Golob noted that homeowners who bought then were able to cut carrying costs by refinancing as rates fell.

Beyond home prices and mortgage rates, an additional factor in the cost of housing is property taxes. They are notoriously high on Long Island and have jumped faster than inflation, the report said.

Many residents are under financial stress because of scant income growth, up 2 percent on average since 2000. Meanwhile, they are squeezed by the rising costs of taxes, heating, electricity and gasoline. Even for families with incomes above $110,000, 43 percent report difficulty in paying housing bills.

Long Island has yet to replace the aerospace and defense industry that once drove the economy, Ms. Golob said. Venture capital investment and federal research grants have fallen.

Research at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory has generated businesses. Its president, Dr. Bruce W. Stillman, said the island needs more cooperation by government, academia and business. Finding housing for researchers is so difficult that the lab assigns an administrator to help place them, sometimes in houses it bought for that purpose.

“People love their hometown of Long Island — they just can’t afford it any more,” the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, said in response to the report. “We remodeled the Levitt houses, and now we have to remodel the suburban paradigm.”
659 2007-01-26 The city is considering legal action against employees of a Queens community center after an audit revealed that they received $178,530 in questionable payments, officials said. The audit, released yesterday by Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., was ordered after suspicions of financial irregularities at the center, the Pomonok Neighborhood Center in Flushing, surfaced in 2005. The center has city and state contracts to provide after-school programs, housing assistance and other services. According to the audit, the center’s youth program director may have padded the time sheets for himself, his daughter, his live-in companion and her son, who were hired in violation of rules against nepotism. The audit also questioned salary payments to 27 other people.
660 2007-01-26 EMI Group, the flagging British music conglomerate, reorganized its American unit yesterday by merging the operations of its two main record labels and ousting the president of Capitol Records, the bigger of the two.

The moves were the most notable so far in a worldwide revamping that started two weeks ago, when EMI, which releases music from acts including Coldplay and Norah Jones, forced out the global chief of its music division.

In the United States, the world’s biggest music market, the cutback is expected to represent the effective end of Capitol as a stand-alone label, though EMI will continue to occupy its offices, a famed cylindrical tower that opened its doors in Hollywood in 1956.

EMI said that Jason Flom, who has been chairman of the company’s Virgin Records label, based in New York, since October 2005, would have an expanded role as chairman of the combined United States unit, to be called the Capitol Music Group.

Andrew Slater, a former talent manager who had been the Capitol label’s president since 2001, was let go. Mr. Slater began a new five-year contract months ago and is expected to receive a payout that could exceed $15 million, people briefed on the company’s strategy said.

The reorganization was announced by Eric Nicoli, EMI’s chief executive, who has taken direct control of the company’s music unit since the ouster of the former global chief, Alain Levy, two weeks ago. The moves by Mr. Nicoli are seen as an effort to revive the company, which has suffered through a series of profit warnings and failed attempts to merge with a competitor, the Warner Music Group.
661 2007-01-26 “We have such a rational market, old-master paintings must look appealing to collectors,” said George Wachter, director of Sotheby’s old-master paintings department worldwide, referring to recent high prices in the overheated contemporary art market. Many of the serious bidders yesterday, he said, were new to old masters, but familiar clients at Sotheby’s.

The sale included a second Rembrandt, “Portrait of a Young Woman With a Black Cap.” For decades the Amsterdam-based Rembrandt Research Project did not consider this 1632 oval painting to be a Rembrandt. But recently, after careful scientific testing and analysis, Ernst van der Wetering, who leads the project, changed the attribution and pronounced it a genuine Rembrandt.

The painting, of a woman with a plump face and a delicate pearl necklace, sold to an anonymous telephone bidder for $9 million; its high estimate had been $4 million.

A far different portrait in the sale was the one of Robert Shore Milnes, the eldest son of John Milnes, an English cotton manufacturer. Painted by Joseph Wright of Derby in 1771-72, the work made $7.2 million, a record price for the artist at auction and nearly five times its high estimate of $1.5 million.

Jean-Luc Baroni, a London dealer, took the winning bid. Reached by telephone after the sale, he said that he bought the painting, which depicts Milnes wearing the uniform of the Royal Horse Guards and standing at the foot of a pair of twin oak trees, on behalf of an American collector who wished to remain anonymous.

After serving 20 years and overseeing two building projects and two major capital campaign drives, Charles E. Pierce Jr. announced yesterday that he would retire as director of the Morgan Library & Museum at the end of this year.

The news comes less than a year after the Morgan opened its highly praised $106 million expansion and renovation, designed by the Italian architect Renzo Piano.

“It’s important to trust your instincts, and the time just felt right,” said Mr. Pierce, 65, who broke the news to the Morgan’s board at a meeting yesterday. “I brought the institution to a new place, and now a new person with youth and energy should take it to the next phase.”

The Morgan was a sleepy place when Mr. Pierce became director in 1987; it had an endowment of $30 million and about 100,000 visitors a year. Its endowment has grown to $150 million and this year about 250,000 people are expected to visit, the most in its 83-year history.

While the expansion doubled the museum’s exhibition space, Mr. Pierce also helped its collections grow, adding the archives of The Paris Review and those of the Pierre Matisse Gallery, a gift from the Pierre Matisse Foundation.

Other donations during Mr. Pierce’s tenure have included the promised gift of almost 400 master works on paper from the museum’s longtime trustee Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare.

“Charlie’s done a wonderful job,” said S. Parker Gilbert, president of the Morgan’s board.

“He came wanting to be at the library, but had no idea of the complexities he would face,” adding that Mr. Pierce was only the Morgan’s fourth director.

Richard Menschel, the board’s vice president, will oversee a search committee to find a new director.

When asked about the future, Mr. Pierce said, “I’d like to say I’m planning to write a sequel to ‘War and Peace,’ but actually I have no specific plans.”

He intends to leave at the end of 2007, he added, but “if they find the right person before then, I might step down earlier.”
662 2007-01-26 AMENITIES A marina and a rooftop bar and garden, among others.

DETAILS Fronting Biscayne Bay on the west side of Miami Beach, this is the first project by Morgans Hotel Group — the owner of the nearby Delano hotel, the Royalton in New York, the Mondrian in Los Angeles and a new Mondrian expected to open next week in Scottsdale, Ariz. — that will include residences. There will be 342 units, including studios, one- and two-bedroom suites and four penthouses, all in a renovated 16-story apartment building. The units will include furniture by Marcel Wanders, who is also the interior and landscaping designer of the project, and will be sold in whole ownership. They may be placed in a revenue-sharing rental program when owners are away. A bar in the lobby will extend outdoors to a pool area, which will have a cafe and cabanas, and inside there will be a fine-dining restaurant, a lounge and a spa and fitness center. Residents and guests will have access to the beach at the Delano.

AMENITIES Ski-in, ski-out access, a full-service spa and a fitness center, among others.

STATUS Construction is scheduled to begin this spring and should be finished in 2009.

DETAILS This project, approved earlier this month, is at the base of 10,568-foot Mount Werner in Steamboat Springs, about 150 miles northwest of Denver. It will include 78 residences in a six-story building adjacent to a gondola. All units will range from 2,500 to 4,700 square feet, and they will be divided into 36 whole-ownership units with four to five bedrooms and 42 furnished units with four bedrooms that will be sold in one-eighth shares. Buyers of the shared-ownership units will be able to use their residences at least six weeks a year. In addition to the spa and fitness center, amenities at the development will include swimming pools, a lounge, restaurants and shops. Owners will also receive membership in a nearby club that offers golf and fishing.
663 2007-01-26 SCHEUER--Emily Malino, died comfortably at home in Washington, DC, among the loving members of her family after a short and valiant battle with leukemia. For over 57 years the beloved wife of the late Congressman James H. Scheuer, Emily shared wit...
664 2007-01-26 COMING: A COMPACT FORD -- Ford Motor Company reported losing $12.7 billion last year, making 2006 the worst year in its history. Now the bigger-is-better world view that has defined the automaker for decades is being replaced by its new chief, Ala...
665 2007-01-26 Friedrich Petzel Gallery  535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea  Through Feb. 10       No one would borrow the phrase ''dumb as a painter'' to describe Nader Ahriman, but someone might ask to borrow a copy of ''Thus Spake Zarathustra.'' A section of that ...
666 2007-01-26 ''Frost/Nixon,'' the new Peter Morgan play about the series of interviews David Frost, the British talk show host, conducted with former President Richard M. Nixon, has set its Broadway dates. Previews begin on March 31 at the Bernard B. Jacobs Th...
667 2007-01-26 British Airways said that it was canceling 1,300 flights from London for two days next week because of a planned strike by its cabin-crew workers.   (HEATHER TIMMONS)...
668 2007-01-26 The city is considering legal action against employees of a Queens community center after an audit revealed that they received $178,530 in questionable payments, officials said. The audit, released yesterday by Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr.,...
669 2007-01-27 So these five hundred social psychologists walk into a ballroom. They sit through a symposium entitled "Cognitive Dissonance Theory Celebrates 50th Birthday." Afterwards there is birthday cake for everyone - two birthday cakes, actually. One is ch...
670 2007-01-27 But Meissner's never been the favorite at this level, and the weight of the expectations were clear. She put a hand down on her opening triple lutz and couldn't tack on the triple toe loop that was supposed to complete the combination.

She did a triple flip-triple toe combo, but the landing on the second jump was shaky and she might have been downgraded. She did do a three-jump combination -- double axel-double toe-double loop -- that was impressive, especially since it came 15 seconds from the end of the 4-minute program.

She has great speed and uses her edges better than most. But her presentation could still use a little work. Selling a program is the toughest thing for most teenagers, and Meissner has been concentrating on it all season. She had some nice moments in her "Galicie Flamenco" number, clicking her hands like a Spanish dancer at one point. But she didn't have nearly the fire or sass flamenco numbers deserve.

That left the door open for Hughes, the little sister of 2002 Olympic champion Sarah Hughes. And she almost made it.

Hughes is all about power and guts, and both were on full display Saturday afternoon. She'd finished third in the short program, and knew it would take her very best to win a national title.

Her opening jump, a double axel, was spectacular, so high people in the front rows had to crane their necks to see her. She did three jump combinations, including a triple lutz-double toe-double loop combo that looked effortless.

The crowd began applauding, and it looked as if Hughes might be on her way to an upset. But the rotation on her triple flip was delayed and she couldn't hold the landing, crashing hard to the ice.

The error cost her the title. But you don't grow up in a family of six kids without developing some toughness, and Hughes kept right on attacking through the final note. She landed one of the best triple lutzes in the competition and a triple salchow.

Because she was starting from so far back, Czisny had to wait until the very end to see if she'd wind up on the podium. But Bebe Liang fell twice, and Czisny soared right on past her.

Czisny has always been a tough one to figure out. She has more grace and talent than 10 skaters combined, but falters when it matters most. After botching the short program, though, she had nothing to lose Saturday.

Skating to music from "Sabrina," she did Audrey Hepburn proud. She was classy and elegant, from her beautiful lines to her gorgeous black dress with white trim. Everything was effortless, including a multiple-position layback spin in which she began leaned completely over to one side and then went into a Biellmann, pulling one leg back and up to her head.

She did five clean triple jumps, two in combination. She two-footed another triple jump, but the rest of her jumps were smooth, high and controlled, the kind of technique coaches wish just one of their students would have. Her spirals drew oohs and aahs, and her final spin was so quick she was a blur on the ice.

She pumped her fists when she was done, and the audience gave her a standing ovation.
671 2007-01-27 Serena Williams proved she is once again a force to be reckoned with after defeating Maria Sharapova....
672 2007-01-27 Clive Goodman, a reporter who covered the royal family for the mass-circulation tabloid News of the World, was sentenced to four months in prison for hacking into royal officials’ voice mail in 2005 and 2006. Shortly after the sentencing, the newspaper’s editor, Andy Coulson, announced his resignation, saying, “The time has come for me to take ultimate responsibility.” Mr. Goodman’s accomplice, Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator, was sentenced to six months in prison for hacking into the messages, including some from Princes William and Harry.
673 2007-01-27 I.B.M. executives said their company was planning to introduce a comparable type of transistor in the first quarter of 2008.

Many industry analysts say that Intel retains a six-month to nine-month lead over the rest of the industry, but I.B.M. executives disputed the claim and said the two companies were focused on different markets in the computing industry.

The I.B.M. technology has been developed in partnership with Advanced Micro Devices, Intel’s main rival. Modern microprocessor and memory chips are created from an interconnected fabric of hundreds of millions and even billions of the tiny switches that process the ones and zeros that are the foundation of digital computing.

They are made using a manufacturing process that has been constantly improving for more than four decades. Today transistors, for example, are made with systems that can create wires and other features that are finer than the resolving power of a single wavelength of light.

The Intel announcement is new evidence that the chip maker is maintaining the pace of Moore’s Law, the technology axiom that states that the number of transistors on a chip doubles roughly every two years, giving rise to a constant escalation of computing power at lower costs.

“This is evolutionary as opposed to revolutionary, but it will generate a big sigh of relief,” said Vivek Subramanian, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences at the University of California, Berkeley.

For several decades there have been repeated warnings about the impending end of the Moore’s Law pace for chip makers. In response the semiconductor industry has repeatedly found its way around fundamental technical obstacles, inventing techniques that at times seem to defy basic laws of physics.

The chip industry measures its progress by manufacturing standards defined by a width of one of the smallest features of a transistor for each generation. Currently much of the industry is building chips in what is known as 90-nanometer technology. At that scale, about 1,000 transistors would fit in the width of a human hair. Intel began making chips at 65 nanometers in 2005, about nine months before its closest competitors.

Now the company is moving on to the next stage of refinement, defined by a minimum feature size of 45 nanometers. Other researchers have recently reported progress on molecular computing technologies that could reduce the scale even further by the end of the decade.

Intel’s imminent advance to 45 nanometers will have a huge impact on the industry, Mr. Subramanian said. “People have been working on it for over a decade, and this is tremendously significant that Intel has made it work,” he said.

Intel’s advance was in part in finding a new insulator composed of an alloy of hafnium, a metallic element that has previously been used in filaments and electrodes and as a neutron absorber in nuclear power plants. They will replace the use of silicon dioxide — essentially the material that window glass is made of, but only several atoms thick.

Intel is also shifting to new metallic alloy materials — it is not identifying them specifically — in transistor components known as gates, which sit directly on top of the insulator. These are ordinarily made from a particular form of silicon called polysilicon.

The new approach to insulation appears at least temporarily to conquer one of the most significant obstacles confronting the semiconductor industry: the tendency of tiny switches to leak electricity as they are reduced in size. The leakage makes chips run hotter and consume more power.

Many executives in the industry say that Intel is still recovering from a strategic wrong turn it made when the company pushed its chips to extremely high clock speeds — the ability of a processor to calculate more quickly. That obsession with speed at any cost left the company behind its competitors in shifting to low-power alternatives.

Now Intel is coming back. Although the chip maker led in the speed race for many years, the company has in recent years shifted its focus to low-power microprocessors that gain speed by breaking up each chip into multiple computing “cores.” In its new 45-nanometer generation, Intel will gain the freedom to seek either higher performance or substantially lower power, while at the same time increasing the number of cores per chip.

“They can adjust the transistor for high performance or low power,” said David Lammers, director of WeSRCH.com, a Web portal for technical professionals.

The Intel development effort has gone on in a vast automated factory in Hillsboro, Ore., that the company calls D1D. It features huge open manufacturing rooms that are kept surgically clean to prevent dust from contaminating the silicon wafers that are whisked around the factory by a robotic conveyor system.

The technology effort was led by Mark T. Bohr, a longtime Intel physicist who is director of process architecture and integration. The breakthrough, he said, was in finding a way to deal with the leakage of current. “Up until five years ago, leakage was thought to increase with each generation,” he said.

Several analysts said that the technology advance could give Intel a meaningful advantage over competitors in the race to build ever more powerful microprocessors.

“It’s going to be a nightmare for Intel’s competitors,” said G. Dan Hutcheson, chief executive of VLSI Research. “A lot of Mark Bohr’s counterparts are going to wake up in terror.”

An I.B.M. executive said yesterday that the company had also chosen hafnium as its primary insulator, but that it would not release details of its new process until technical papers are presented at coming conferences.

“It’s the difference between can openers and Ferraris,” said Bernard S. Meyerson, vice president and chief technologist for the systems and technology group at I.B.M. He insisted that industry analysts who have asserted that Intel has a technology lead are not accurate and that I.B.M. had simply chosen to deploy its new process in chips that are part of high-performance systems aimed at the high end of the computer industry.

Intel said it had already manufactured prototype microprocessor chips in the new 45-nanometer process that run on three major operating systems: Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.
674 2007-01-27 BRUSSELS, Jan. 26 (AP) — Rivals of Microsoft renewed their call Friday for European regulators to act against what they say are “illegal practices,” charging that the new Vista operating system is the company’s effort to extend its monopoly to the Internet.

They asked the European Commission to make a decision “as fast as possible” on a complaint they filed last February. It had accused Microsoft of working to keep its existing monopolies and trying to extend its market dominance into other areas, including Web-based computing.

Microsoft had no immediate comment beyond saying that the rivals — represented by the European Committee for Interoperable Systems — were not saying anything new. The company has described the group as a front for I.B.M. and other competitors that have tried to use regulatory complaints to their business advantage.

The group said Microsoft’s XAML markup language — which it said was positioned to replace the current Web page language HTML — was designed “from the ground up to be dependent on Windows.”

“The very same practices the European Commission found to be illegal almost three years ago have now been implemented in Vista,” the group of rivals said.
675 2007-01-27 The cost of higher education is expected to continue to outpace inflation. Many colleges now cost more than $40,000 a year, including tuition, room and board, books, fees, supplies and associated costs. In 15 to 16 years, that could grow to more than $90,000 a year, assuming a 5 percent inflation rate. Even state colleges, relative bargains at $15,000 a year now, will probably run about $31,200 a year by the time today’s 3-year-old enrolls.

Darlene Marsh and her husband, Michael, are shifting funds from the custodial accounts of their two daughters into college savings plans known as 529s, which are tax-free accounts used to pay for higher education. The couple, who live in Pinckney, Mich., opened the custodial accounts on the spur of the moment a while back, based on advice from someone who worked at their bank. They have since realized they do not want the children to have access to the money unless it is for higher education.

Were the money to remain in custodial accounts, like a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act account, the girls would gain control of it when they became adults at 18 or 21, depending on the state where they live. Most 529 plans, on the other hand, are owned by parents, grandparents or other relatives. If money from a child’s custodial account is contributed to a 529, the child technically becomes the owner and can use the money, after paying penalties, for something other than education when they reach adulthood.

A part-time dental hygienist, Mrs. Marsh and her husband, the superintendent for a commercial construction company, earn about $95,000 a year and have a total of $6,000 invested in accounts for their two daughters. In addition to shifting the money into tax-deferred or tax-free 529s, they are consolidating accounts and are moving money out of underperforming accounts, including one that earned just $20 in interest over eight years.

Giving large sums to the future student is unwise for another reason. In determining college aid, the portion of money expected to go for college is higher for funds held in a student’s hands than if it were the parents’ money.

“Financial aid takes a larger portion of a student’s contributions than a parent’s because we assume the student doesn’t have any other obligations and parents have a house and other kids and other costs,” said Alison Rabil, director for financial aid at Barnard College.

If a child’s custodial account has $150,000, and college will cost $40,000 a year, then 20 percent of that money each year would be expected to pay for college. That means all but $10,000 of the college cost would come from the child in the first year. If that same $150,000 were in a parent’s name, then only about 5.6 percent a year would be expected to pay for college. That means that $8,400 would go to the college, with up to $31,600 possibly covered by financial aid.

About 75 percent of undergraduates applied for financial aid in 2003-4, the latest available data, up from 31 percent in 1989-90, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.

Susan Tukel of West Bloomfield, Mich., is paying college application fees and other legitimate expenses out of her son Adam’s custodial account to maximize the amount of aid he will receive when he enters college as a freshman this fall. Ms. Tukel, who will apply for aid this month, said she wished she had funneled money into Adam’s 529 rather than into his custodial account.

Her son is applying to an in-state public university as well as to private and out-of-state colleges. Costs could range from $18,000 to more than $30,000 a year.

“I wish I had thought more about where he might like to go to school and investigated about the price,” said Ms. Tukel, president of a specialty insurance company. “I would have put the money in a different account.”

If a 529 ends up with more money than the student needs for college, the excess could finance educations for siblings or parents, or even remain until the student’s children need the money, creating an education legacy fund. Money can also be withdrawn if there is no one else to designate as a beneficiary, including the 529’s owner, but it is subject to taxes on the gains, a 10 percent federal penalty on the earnings portion of any withdrawal, and possibly even state or local taxes.

Not applying for aid is a major mistake. Even families that do not expect to receive help should ask because they may have extenuating circumstances, like several children in college at the same time, that will make aid officers look on them more favorably.

Missing deadlines is another mistake. “Most deadlines really are drop-dead deadlines,” said Maureen McRae Levy, director for financial aid at Occidental College, a private liberal arts college in Los Angeles that costs about $45,000 a year. “You are better off to get your foot in the door with an application you change later than to have no application at all.”

Advisers suggest prepaying a 529 for five years — at $12,000 a year per recipient — as early and as often as possible, which gives money extra time to compound. If parents can afford it, they also should put the maximum amount into retirement accounts because those assets are not counted, for federal aid purposes, toward aid contributions. Other tips include paying down a house mortgage or credit card debt, because that could reduce available assets that would be expected to pay for college.

Specialists universally discourage shifting money from stocks to life insurance annuities in an effort to hide assets because some colleges may ask about those investments as well.

What is more, advisers suggest not selling stocks to pay for college in the year that one is applying for aid because that money will be considered income, and income is assessed by financial aid providers at a higher percentage than savings are. If stocks must be sold to pay for college, the sale should be done by early in a child’s junior year of high school — the year before the aid application — so the proceeds are not considered income.

Some states, including New York, allow parents who live in the state to take tax deductions on contributions regardless of withdrawal date.

“A lot of states offer state income tax deductions for your contribution, no matter how old your child is or how soon you may need to pay for college,” said Joseph Hurley, founder and chief executive of savingforcollege.com, an independent Web site providing information on 529s and other ways to save for college. His site offers a calculator that forecasts college costs.

Families should not fear that years of saving and living frugally will be held against them when they apply for aid, said Rita Robbins, president of Invescor Advisory Services, which trains independent financial advisers. Parents’ savings are assessed at 5.6 percent, under financial aid guidelines, whereas they may be expected to contribute almost half of their adjusted gross income (gross income less state, local and federal taxes and Social Security).

“Most people worry they are going to grab all of your savings. They’re not — they’re going to grab all of your income,” said Ms. Robbins, who urged people to control costs and save long before they need to apply for the aid.

“People don’t set aside enough money because parents, based on their lifestyle, don’t make accommodations for this,” she said. “This standard of living they’ve been accustomed to has left them no room for adequate planning for their children’s higher education cost.”
676 2007-01-27 On a day when the wind was up, Snedeker said he did not feel overly nervous trying for his first victory on the PGA Tour. He said he spent an enjoyable Thursday night watching the movie “The Departed” and returned the more than 30 telephone and text messages left on his telephone after his opening-round 61.

He also spoke to his parents, Candy and Larry, who were watching his round from Gulf Shores, Ala. He said his father always got a little excited.

“Giddy like a schoolgirl,” he said.

The 26-year-old Snedeker said one of the toughest parts of his second round was trying not to think about his record-tying first round. Players kept walking up to congratulate him while he was on the driving range Friday morning.

He was a little out of sorts when he walked to the first tee.

“Sure enough, I blew one off the planet, right,” Snedeker said. “I was on my way again to missing a bunch of fairways. Still, it was a good day. I scrambled well and shot a pretty good number considering how bad I hit the tee shot.”

Good fortune also visited Snedeker. He rolled in a 40-foot putt for birdie on the third hole and added three more birdies against two bogeys.

Woods, who has four Buick Invitational titles and is bidding for seven straight PGA Tour victories, experienced a round that included precision and error. He made three birdies but erased them with three bogeys.

“All I need to do is a little work on the range and a little work on the greens and I should be alright tomorrow,” Woods said.

Despite his deficit to Snedeker, Woods was not ready to crown the rookie with the title.

“He played well yesterday and, obviously, consistent today, so we’ll see what happens on the weekend,” Woods said. “There’s a bunch of guys in with a chance. The South Course, with the way it’s playing, it’s going to be a stern test for all of us.”

Snedeker, who is from Nashville, has greeted his early brush with fame with shrugs of the shoulders and smiles. When he made par on No. 8, a fan said to him that he would be cheering for him during the tournament’s final two rounds.

After the round, Snedeker said he did not know why so many fans were pulling for him.

“I think if you found out the answer to that question, a lot of guys out here would pay a lot of money to figure that out,” he said. “I was just reacting to the way they were to me. That’s how I was brought up. If somebody smiled at me, I smiled back. My dad would kick my butt, to be honest with you, if I hadn’t done that.”

The mass of humanity was waiting for Snedeker as he made his way to the 18th hole, where he tapped in for a par.

As he walked off the South Course and toward the scorer’s tent, a man leaned over a railing and yelled at him.

“Hey,” the fan shouted. “I have a bet. How old are you?”

“Twenty-six,” Snedeker said, sending away another satisfied customer.
677 2007-01-27 Peaberry and his teammates slowed obediently. I depressed the brake bar, bringing the sled to a shuddering halt.

Jim Blair, the owner of Eden Mountain Resort, raced up on foot. Jim, a 52-year-old former high school hockey star and cross-country skier with longish gray locks, bore a striking resemblance to Paul McCartney. He winked at me as if he were Sergeant Pepper coming to the rescue of his Lonely Hearts Club Band.

“You said ‘Gee’ when you should have said ‘Haw,’ ” Jim declared. “ ‘Gee’ means turn right. ‘Haw’ means turn left.”

I hemmed and hawed on the sled runners, blushing with embarrassment. I had come to Eden Mountain in executive pursuit of a wintertime recreation my family and I could enjoy in a spirit of sang-froid togetherness. Harrison was the one who had proposed the trip. But once again, it was dear old dad who made a fool of himself.

As Jim turned the dog team around, I swallowed my pride and reflected on my dog sledding due diligence. Though hardly as popular as skiing or snowboarding, the sport is currently enjoying a miniboom in northern states like Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, Montana and Idaho, and in Canada, Norway, Mongolia, South Korea and Japan. But its roots trace all the way back to prehistoric times.

“Sled dog activities as recreation and friendly competition may have existed for almost as long as the relationship between dogs and human in the regions where snow was a seasonal probability,” observes Tim White, vice president for development at the International Federation of Sleddog Sports, in a brief history of dog sledding posted on his organization’s Web site.

In a telephone interview, Mr. White estimated there were more than 5,000 active dog sledders in the United States. That figure includes skijorers, who wear skis while being pulled by one, two or three dogs. The grueling Iditarod in Alaska, which typically takes more than eight days for the winner to complete, has drawn teams from over 20 other states and 14 foreign countries, with women and men competing on an equal basis. Ingrid Bower, president of the Green Mountain Distance Mushers in Vermont, says her organization’s events are so popular she limits the number of entrants to 70 teams.

“It’s addictive, exhilarating and difficult,” the federation’s treasurer, Laura Gloor, a dog sled racer from Bovey, Minn., said in an e-mail message.

The biggest growth sector is the commercial dog sled tour in which experienced mushers take clients on cross-country trips. Over the last six years, the number of guests at Eden Mountain Resort has skyrocketed to 400 a season from 12. “There is particular interest in touring among honeymoon couples from Japan who come to Quebec and the Northwest Territories of Canada,” Mr. White said. “Many of them believe that children who are conceived under the Northern Lights are blessed.”

As rank novices, my family and I did not aspire to become dog sled racers. We simply wanted to be taken for a few scenic rides through the snow, and, if possible, learn the basics of how to drive a sled. Eden Mountain Resort offers programs that fit the bill and our budget. The 75-acre site has a kennel of 24 Alaskan huskies, 10 miles of sledding trails, a guest house and a log home. Tours and so-called U Drive lessons last about two hours, and cost $325 a sled. Two-night accommodations range from $300 to $700 depending on the time of year.

Jim, the owner, said his 10-year love affair with dog sledding grew out of training for endurance sports like cross-country skiing. Dogs he trained won national skijoring titles in 2003, 2004 and 2005. He operates a “free range” kennel, where his huskies roam their pens unchained. “Chained dogs can be shy and skittish, but my dogs are much better socialized with guests that come and go,” he said, adding, “Every so often I’ll have an evening with the dogs and bring them all into the same room and have a party.”

On our first evening at Eden Mountain, Jim took us on a trail ride under a setting sun and a full moon rising. A large sled pulled by an eight-dog team can accommodate about 350 pounds of weight, so Alison, Harrison, and I fit comfortably in the same basket. Snuggled together under a pile of blankets, we kept oohing and aahing and shouting with glee as our bottoms bounced along the snowy trails. That evening, Alison made a hearty beef stew in the guest house and Jim regaled us with tales of dog sledding adventures.

The following day, Jim gave Harrison and me a three-step U Drive course. Step 1 was riding the runners of the sled in tandem with him. He taught us how to control the sled by standing on the drag mat, and by leaning through turns bending the bow handle. Step 2 was mushing with Jim riding in the sled basket. Step 3 was soloing, which I finally began to master after my initial false start.

But Harrison proved to be the family’s dog sledding star. As his mother watched, biting her nails, he made a series of near-perfect loops around the frozen pond with the same five-dog team that had earlier bolted out from under me. Then he co-piloted Jim back to the barn, where he helped unhitch the dogs, watered them and fed them high-carbohydrate treats.

On the second morning it rained, and the melting snow nixed conventional dog sledding. But Jim showed Harrison how to drive a dog cart. Made in Germany, the dog cart was a two-seater with a galvanized steel frame, disc brakes and four heavy-duty tires. With the trusty Peaberry leading a three-dog team, Harrison piloted Jim down the resort’s asphalt driveway and back and forth along the access road.

President Harry Truman once said, “If you want a friend in Washington, get a dog.” I’d found the same could be said of life in general and business in particular. At Eden Mountain Resort, my family and I made 24 new canine friends. My son found a new sport he was good at, and some teammates for whom he felt a special love. “It was a lot of fun,” Harrison said as we piled in the car to drive home, “just like I hoped it would be.”
678 2007-01-27 Meissner has had a year full of excitement after finishing sixth in the Olympic Games in Turin, Italy, then winning the worlds. A trip to the ESPY Awards provided a chance to meet one of her heroes, Lance Armstrong. She threw out the first pitch at the Philadelphia Phillies’ home opener. She has done a national television commercial for Subway. She raises money for and spends time with young cancer patients at Johns Hopkins and the University of Maryland medical centers, not far from her hometown, Bel Air, Md.

But on the ice, she remains a kid at heart. “It’s very rare for her to have a mopey day,” Gregory said. “I hardly ever see it. It’s just not in her nature.”

So even after a few spills in practice, Meissner kept smiling and laughing. She worked on all the jumps she missed and hit them easily later in practice.

The level of Meissner’s jumps is higher than her competitors here, even though she will not try a triple axel, which she landed in the 2005 nationals. But Meissner has also made great strides in the artistic side of her skating. She skates her long program to flamenco music, a nod to her great-grandparents who were from Spain. She has two lace shawls owned by her great-grandmother, and she brought them here for luck.

Figure-skating fans have watched Meissner grow up since she burst on the seniors scene in 2005. But Friday, they watched Hughes celebrate a birthday. She turned 18, and the day kicked off with her coach, Bonni Retzkin, singing to her at breakfast in the hotel restaurant. The restaurant did not have a candle, Retzkin said, so she had to go to the gift shop.

“It was kind of funny,” Hughes said. “The whole restaurant started to sing.”

Hughes’s performance in the short program was celebrated by the crowd at Spokane Arena with a standing ovation. But that ovation only set the stage for Meissner to top her score handily.

Meissner said it was the loudest ovation she ever had to follow. The hardest part of that was trying to warm up while dodging all the stuffed animals being thrown onto the ice for Hughes.

“I’ve had it before where people have actually thrown stuff and someone’s getting off, I’m getting on and it hit me right in the head,” Meissner said. “I’m like, ‘That’s great, I have to skate now.’ But yesterday, nothing hit me, I didn’t trip or anything.”

FROM THIRD TO CHAMPIONS The pairs competition at the United States Figure Skating Championships got a surprise champion Friday when Brooke Castile and Ben Okolski rose from third after the short program to capture the title by less than a point. The best the pair had done in a previous national championship was finishing seventh two years ago.

“It feels great,” Okolski said. “Although it really hasn’t sunk in yet.”

Their rise was made possible after the top two teams faltered in their long programs. Rena Inoue and John Baldwin, the two-time champions, fell twice. Baldwin fell on a side-by-side triple toe loop, and Inoue fell trying to land a throw triple axel. That opened the door for Castile and Okolski, although their program was technically not as difficult.

Inoue and Baldwin qualified for the second spot at the world championships, which will be in Tokyo in March.

“We thought for a minute we might not make worlds, but we did not do our job tonight, so whatever happened, we have to accept it,” said Inoue, who was born in Japan.

Naomi Nari Nam and Themi Leftheris had a chance to grab a world team spot after Inoue and Baldwin stumbled, but Nam fell to a knee trying to land a throw triple salchow and also fell on the next throw, a triple loop.
679 2007-01-27 KB Home, whose longtime chief stepped down after an internal inquiry into stock option awards, said yesterday that federal regulators had opened a formal investigation into its options practices.

The company, one of the nation’s largest home builders, said in a regulatory filing that it was notified Jan. 19 that the Securities and Exchange Commission was conducting a formal investigation. The agency told the company in August that it was the subject of an informal inquiry.

In a formal investigation, the S.E.C. can subpoena documents and other information from a company.

KB Home “has cooperated with the S.E.C. regarding this matter and intends to continue to do so,” the company said in the filing. A spokeswoman said the company had no additional comment.

In November, the chief executive, Bruce E. Karatz, retired after 34 years with KB when an internal report showed that the company had backdated some stock option grants from 1998 to 2005. Mr. Karatz agreed to repay about $13 million in gains he had received from mispriced options.

Two other executives also left the company.

KB said in December that it expected to restate financial results for 2003 to 2005 and the first half of 2006 because of errors in option prices. It has said it expects a noncash expense of about $41 million spread over several years.
680 2007-01-27 Mr. Silver spent Friday mulling his options and trying to cool down members of the Assembly, who are furious at what they perceive as a slight. Some of Mr. Spitzer’s deputies are reaching out to the Assembly to take its temperature — trying to see how much political capital the administration used up on the comptroller fight the week before it releases its first budget proposal.

Mr. Silver is in a particularly sensitive position. If he accepts a candidate from outside the Assembly for comptroller, he risks incurring the wrath of the members of his conference, whose support he needs to remain speaker. But if he reneges on the deal he publicly made with Governor Spitzer, he could find himself in an all-out war with the governor’s office fresh off Mr. Spitzer’s landslide victory.

“I think we’re at war, but I’m not sure,” said one Assembly Democrat, who was granted anonymity to describe the private machinations in the Assembly. “This is a clash of the titans, and I don’t know how this plays out.”

Many Democrats in Albany originally thought that the speaker had outfoxed the rookie governor earlier this month when the two men agreed on a process for picking the comptroller. Their deal called for having three former comptrollers screen the potential choices and then forward a list of qualified candidates to the Legislature for a vote. At least one of the former comptrollers’ preferred candidates was likely to be an assemblyman, the thinking went.

In the end, though, the newbie governor had the last laugh, as the panel forwarded the names of three candidates from outside the Assembly: William J. Mulrow, an investment banker who ran for comptroller in 2002 and who is close to Mr. Spitzer; Martha E. Stark, the New York City Finance Commissioner; and Howard S. Weitzman, the Nassau County comptroller. Members of the panel said in interviews that they had not been lobbied or pressured by the governor, but someone who had spoken with one of the panel members said he had a strong impression that the panel had been in contact with Mr. Spitzer at one point.

The rift threatens to poison perhaps the most closely watched relationship in Albany. After a great deal of speculation that Mr. Spitzer might support a coup against Mr. Silver — the way his predecessor, George E. Pataki, took out the Senate Republican majority leader when he was elected governor — the two men seemed to forge a good relationship and went out of their way to praise each other.

The spat over the next comptroller could threaten to end the honeymoon. At the heart of the battle between Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Silver — both lawyers with a tendency to view government through a lawyerly prism and speak in legalese — is a dispute about the terms of the deal they made.

Mr. Spitzer said all along that the panel could recommend “up to five” candidates, but Mr. Silver is now claiming that the agreement was for the panel to recommend five candidates, and that by offering only three the former comptrollers “did not conform” to the agreement.

In announcing the agreement on the selection process on Jan. 9, Mr. Spitzer said that the “screening panel will then report out up to five names of individuals whom they deem to be qualified to be comptroller of the State of New York.” Mr. Silver, who shared the stage with him, looked on approvingly. Their news release said that the panel would select “up to five comptroller candidates.”

But Assembly officials now note that a second reference in the news release says that “the Legislature will select among the five candidates,” and that a hearing notice put out by the Legislature says the panel “will submit five candidates to the Legislature.”

Some rank-and-file members of the Assembly are doubly angry, because the State Constitution gives the Legislature the right to select the replacement for a comptroller who resigns, and gives no role to the governor. Because Assembly Democrats control the biggest bloc of votes, the choice would have effectively been theirs. Now they are grousing that Mr. Silver should not have ceded so much control to Mr. Spitzer.

“As of this moment, the members are freaking out, and Shelly is in a very tight spot,” said another Assembly Democrat who was granted anonymity to describe the private conversations of lawmakers. “They are saying, ‘If we’re not going to stand up for something that is clearly the province of the Legislature, when will we stand up?’ ”

Several assemblymen vying for the post said on Friday that they remained in the running.
681 2007-01-27 LOS ANGELES, Jan. 26 — Use of Genentech’s new eye drug, Lucentis, might raise the risk of stroke, the company said Friday.

The company posted on its Web site a letter it sent to retina specialists this week. According to the letter, 1.2 percent of patients treated with a high dose of Lucentis in a clinical trial suffered a stroke, compared with only 0.3 percent of those treated with a low dose. The difference was statistically significant.

The new findings could conceivably damp some demand for Lucentis, because the high dose, 0.5 milligrams per injection, is the one that is marketed. Shares of Genentech fell 89 cents, or 1 percent, to $86.57.

Dawn Kalmar, a spokeswoman for Genentech, said Friday that the company wanted to move quickly to communicate the information. But she said the company did not expect the new data to prompt a change in the drug’s label, which already contains a warning about risks of blood-clotting events like strokes.

Lucentis, also called ranibizumab, is approved to treat age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness in the elderly. It is the first drug shown in clinical trials to improve eyesight for a significant number of patients, as opposed to merely slowing the rate of vision loss.
682 2007-01-27 LONDON, Jan. 26 — Nasdaq said on Friday that it did not plan to raise its offer for the London Stock Exchange, just before a deadline to do so, damping investors’ expectations. Investors have until Feb. 10 to tender their shares for a deal, but any changes in the bid would have to happen this weekend unless a rival bidder emerges.

That is generally seen as unlikely, though any such deal would not happen quickly, because the N.Y.S.E. is just starting to absorb pan-European exchange Euronext.

The exchange’s shares have fallen over the last week as investors who were hoping for a higher price than Nasdaq’s initial $5.3 billion bid head for the door.

If the deal does not go through, Nasdaq has to walk away for a year, possibly leaving the door open to other bidders. Shares of the London Stock Exchange rose 12 pence on Friday, to £12.95, above Nasdaq’s 1,243 pence-a-share offer.

What could happen until Feb. 10 is still unclear. About 25 percent of the exchange’s investors are short-term holders like hedge funds.
683 2007-01-27 FORT WORTH, Jan. 26 (AP) — A former theology professor at a prominent Southern Baptist seminary here said officials had told her to leave because women are biblically forbidden to teach men.

The professor, Sheri Klouda, said she was hired in 2002 to a tenure-track position as an assistant professor at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, where she taught Hebrew and had earned her doctorate. But in 2004, Dr. Klouda said, an administrator, whom she would not name, told her that the seminary’s president, Paige Patterson, would not be recommending her for tenure because she was a woman, and that she should plan to move on.

Dr. Klouda said she continued teaching for two more years, receiving good evaluations and usually filling her classrooms. In January 2006, the same administrator told her she would no longer be able to teach but would be paid through the 2006-7 academic year. A couple of weeks later, she said, she was told she would be terminated at the end of 2006 instead. She appealed to Dr. Patterson in April, she said, to no avail.

Dr. Patterson did not respond to requests for comment, and Van McClain, president of the board of trustees, said he could not discuss the matter but e-mailed several previously written statements.

Mr. McClain said Dr. Klouda had not been dismissed, but he did say that she had not been granted tenure. He also said it had been rare for women to teach theology at Southern Baptist seminaries.
684 2007-01-27 The ethanol proposal has wide support in Congress, but the mileage standards and health insurance proposals differ significantly from the ideas that Congressional leaders have proposed.

BLEEDING BLUE Battered by falling sales, revamping costs, worker buyouts and the falling value of unneeded factories, Ford said it lost a record $12.7 billion last year — almost half of it in the fourth quarter alone.

The loss was by far the largest in Ford’s 103-year history, topping the $7.4 billion it lost in 1992 and exceeding General Motors’ $10.6 billion loss in 2005. The biggest annual loss for any American automaker is still the $23.5 billion that G.M. lost in 1992.

Even after stripping out revamping costs and focusing on the actual business of making cars, Ford flopped. It lost $2.8 billion on continuing operations, more than most analysts had expected and almost 50 percent more than its $1.9 billion loss in 2005.

General Motors was scheduled to report its 2006 earnings next Tuesday, but has delayed their release indefinitely.

RESIZING PFIZER With some of its best-selling drugs opening up to generic competition and no new blockbusters to take their place, Pfizer said it would lay off another 7,800 employees — in addition to the 2,200 announced earlier — and would close factories and labs in Brooklyn; Omaha; Ann Arbor, Mich., and abroad.

Pfizer said the job cuts would reduce its worldwide work force by 10 percent and would take place by the end of next year.

Sales of two of Pfizer’s best sellers — the antidepressant Zoloft and the antibiotic Zithromax — fell by more than 70 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006 as they lost patent protection, the company said.

Another blockbuster, the cholesterol-fighting drug Lipitor, could be subject to generic competition by 2010.

BIG GAMBLE With lottery profits flagging, the state of Illinois proposed selling its state lottery system, hoping for a one-time jackpot of as much as $10 billion from investors.

While Illinois and other states have sold toll roads, airports and other assets to raise cash, the proposed lottery sale would be one of the largest privatizations of a state-run program. It raises concerns that cash-short states may be willing to settle for an immediate payout by selling assets that could provide consistent streams of revenue.

Indiana is also considering selling its lottery and bids are due this month.

LOSING STREAK Expanding its investigation into the multibillion-dollar online gambling industry, the Justice Department subpoenaed the records of four Wall Street investment banks, according to people briefed on the investigation.

The banks — HSBC, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Kleinwort — underwrote the initial public stock offerings of online gambling sites that operate abroad. More than half of all bets placed to these online casinos, typically based in Costa Rica or Antigua, are from residents of the United States.

Unable to go directly after the casinos, prosecutors have sought to pursue the operations’ American partners, marketing arms and now, possibly, investors.

CAUGHT CHEATING The Kerr-McGee Corporation cheated the government out of millions of dollars in royalties on oil it produced in publicly owned coastal waters, a federal jury in Denver decided.

The jury concluded that Kerr-McGee underpaid the government $7.5 million, accepting the estimates of a former government auditor, Bobby L. Maxwell, who was let go by the Interior Department after he raised the issue. Congress and the department’s own inspector general are investigating how the department enforced its royalty rules.

Kerr-McGee could be forced to pay more than $30 million. Mr. Maxwell could be entitled to as much as 30 percent of that.

FALL OUT OF THE GAP After the company’s third dismal holiday shopping season, Gap, the casual-clothing chain, forced out its embattled chief executive, Paul S. Pressler.

Mr. Pressler, who once ran the Walt Disney Company’s theme parks, cut Gap’s debt load after he arrived in 2002, but he could not turn around the ailing retail business. Sales fell every month last year; over the critical holiday shopping period they fell 8 percent compared with the period in 2005.

Speculation about a successor fell on Roger N. Farah, the president of Polo Ralph Lauren, and Paul R. Charron, the former head of Liz Claiborne.

MOST POPULAR Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Jan. 13 through Jan. 20:

1. In Raw World of Sex Movies, High Definition Could Be a View Too Real

2. Don’t Call. Don’t Write. Let Me Be.
685 2007-01-27 The Kings, who overcame a 20-point third-quarter deficit, went to point guard Mike Bibby on their final possession. Bibby had taken over the game in the fourth quarter, but he missed a shot from the top of the key. Kings forward Brad Miller came down with the rebound and missed a layup attempt. The ball was tipped back out to Bibby, who was wide open at the top of the key. His shot with 10.3 seconds remaining gave the Kings an 88-87 victory.

“We shouldn’t have put ourselves in that position, being up by 20 points,” Nets point guard Jason Kidd said after the game.

Against the Golden State Warriors on Wednesday night, the Nets were ahead by 109-108 when forward Bostjan Nachbar missed a shot from the corner with just over five seconds remaining. The Warriors’ Baron Davis raced the ball upcourt and found guard Monta Ellis, who hit a shot from the wing at the buzzer.

On Thursday, the Nets took a 101-99 lead with 1:07 to play, but the Clippers got their chance after calling a timeout with eight seconds left.

Point guard Sam Cassell, who was guarded by the Nets rookie Marcus Williams, dribbled around a screen at the top of the key and streaked down the right edge of the lane. As Cassell got past Williams, Vince Carter came over to double-team, leaving Mobley open behind the 3-point line. Cassell passed to Mobley; Carter could only watch as Mobley hit the winner.

That final play seemed to weigh most heavily on Carter, despite his 33 points in one of his best offensive performances of the season.

“I screwed it up,” he said. “I feel bad for it.”

Those three failed defensive stops are the difference between a seven-game winning streak and a three-game skid for the Nets. Each defeat has seemed to deflate them even more. Heartbreakers do not normally happen this often and this close together.

The Nets’ previous three 1-point losses were spread over 21 months and three seasons.

“You put your heart and soul as a player and coach into this,” Nets Coach Lawrence Frank said after the loss to the Clippers. “This hurts. Every loss hurts and the fact that you put all three together, it really hurts you.”

Frank was speechless at times during his postgame news conference Thursday night. Even after defeats, the Nets players usually find something to joke or smile about in the locker room after the game. Not much of that was going on after the game against the Clippers.

Still, the Nets were trying to find a silver lining to what has happened over the past few days, perhaps a means of keeping their psyches straight as they enter what might be the most difficult games of this trip.

“When you give yourself a chance to win, that’s all you can ask for,” Kidd said. “It’s not like we’re getting blasted by 20 and you’re trying to search for what we need to do.”

The Nets may know their formula for success. Now they have to figure out how to stick to it for a full 48 minutes.
686 2007-01-27 Without government prompting, American Chemistry Council companies have voluntarily invested more than $3.7 billion enhancing security at their facilities since 9/11 under the A.C.C.’s Responsible CareSecurity Code.

The council’s Security Code is so robust that officials in New Jersey, New York and Maryland developed their programs using our code as their guide.

Our members comply with these state programs, and we do not believe that the new federal law pre-empts them in their current form.

Far from trying to “ward off any significant new federal rules” that would make our members spend money on security, we led the charge for over three years to pass federal chemical security legislation.

As a result of last year’s law, the Department of Homeland Security has proposed an important rule requiring thousands of chemical facilities to implement security measures meeting 19 risk-based performance standards.

Instead of calling for more Congressional debate, the best way to protect America is to support this new rule, which will rapidly and comprehensively improve security at chemical facilities nationwide.
687 2007-01-27 The only way to know whether you have saved enough for retirement is, when you suck in your last breath, for someone to show you your bank statement.

Until then, you’ll have to depend on financial planners and software.

In all the debate over whether Americans are saving too much or too little, there is considerable agreement on a few things. For instance, it pays to start saving early because the power of compounding, especially in a tax-free account, means you’ll have more money later. The other advice that everyone gives the nod to is that you need a plan and you need to revisit that plan every year.

Start with the calculators provided by a company that manages 401(k) plans and individual retirement accounts. Fidelity discovered that just doing that is intimidating for the majority of people. It created a really simple one called myPlan Snapshot, which is available to anyone on the main page of fidelity.com. It asks five simple questions that require no research or digging up old brokerage statements to answer.

The result is a simple graph showing what you need and how close you are to getting there. Then it offers to take you to a more sophisticated analysis, called Retirement Quick Check, that requires about 30 minutes of effort.

Both of those calculators, like most offered by financial services companies, use industry-accepted rules of thumbs to determine how much you need to save. “One of the downfalls of an online calculator is they take middle-ground assumptions,” said Geoff Brooks, senior vice president for retirement services at HSBC, the financial services company. So the advice is not finely tailored.
688 2007-01-27 KOTLIK--Emil J., 79, died January 23, 2008. Survived by cousins, Mary Ann and John Kral, Lois and Kristi Kral and untold relatives in the Czech Republic. A graduate of Stuyvesant High School, class of 1946 and the Baruch School at CCNY, Class of 1...
689 2007-01-27 SCHEUER--Emily Malino, died comfortably at home in Washington, DC, among the loving members of her family after a short and valiant battle with leukemia. For over 57 years the beloved wife of the late Congressman James H. Scheuer, Emily shared wit...
690 2007-01-27 To the Editor:     Re ''Chemical Insecurity'' (editorial, Jan. 23):...
691 2007-01-28 For most of the night, the cast of "Little Miss Sunshine" sat still and smiled while others picked up the hardware. Alan Arkin, who the Bagger picked to win, did not, and neither did the funny, frothy Abigail Breslin. But at the end of the night, ...
692 2007-01-28 SAN DIEGO, Jan. 27 (AP) — The Navy called off a search on Saturday for three missing crew members of a helicopter that crashed in the ocean about 50 miles off California’s southern coast.

The crash during a training mission on Friday left one sailor dead, and the Navy had searched for the remaining crew members through the night and into the afternoon.

“The cold water temperature and the time that elapsed since the crash occurred led Navy officials to conclude that aircrew survivability is extremely unlikely,” said Lt. Cmdr. Elizabeth Meydenbauer of the Navy.

Lieutenant Meydenbauer said the Navy knew the location of the sunken helicopter, but had not decided if the wreckage would be brought up from the ocean floor.
693 2007-01-28 Hughes, who turned 18 on Friday, said she understood how close she had come to winning this title, something her sister Sarah, the 2002 Olympic gold medalist, never did. “I am aware,” she said, “and it is going to push me until March.”

That is when Meissner, Hughes and Czisny will compete as the United States women’s team at the world championships in Tokyo against a strong field of Japanese contenders, including the 16-year-old sensation Mao Asada.

By then, Meissner hopes to have a triple axel back in her program. She has not landed one since the 2005 nationals, when she became the first woman to accomplish the feat since Tonya Harding in 1991.

“We think about it every day,” Meissner’s coach, Pam Gregory, said. “She practices it every day. It’s just a matter of what the odds are. It can’t be something that just comes together at the end. I know Kimmie, and consistency is the name of the game for her, and that’s what allows her to be a good competitor.”

That consistency is why Meissner was surprised at her stumbles in the long program. On her first jump, which was supposed to be a triple-triple combination, she put her hand down on the landing of the triple lutz and went without the combination. She later wobbled on the landing of a combination. “Of course I would have liked to have won the long program, but I’m happy over all,” Meissner said. “I’m glad I did a good short and I did a pretty good long. Not perfect, but pretty good.”

Czisny skated first in the final group Saturday and put on a spectacular performance, landing all of her jumps and capitalizing on her strength, her mesmerizing spins. A year ago, Czisny came to nationals believing she was a contender for the Olympic team, but she faltered, finishing seventh.

“After last year I was so disappointed, so just coming back this year and skating well, I was really, really happy,” Czisny said.

Meissner’s performance left the door open for Hughes. But midway through Hughes’s program, she fell on a triple flip, a jump she says she has struggled with recently.

“I really wanted to skate a clean long program,” she said. “But what I’ve learned over the past year is, I learned to get up and keep going.”

Hughes had been in the lead at the Cup of China after the short program, only to falter in the long and fall to third. At Skate America, she failed to attempt several of her jumps in the long program and fell out of contention.

Meissner’s stumbles this season have generally come in the short program, so she was relieved when she came out of that cleanly and holding a strong lead. She needed every bit of it.

Now that Meissner has a national title to go with her world championship, she plans to share the news with her classmates at Fallston High School in Bel Air, Md., when she returns to classes Tuesday.

She can tell them over the intercom because she is the student who makes the announcements.

Meissner said she would say: “Kimmie Meissner is back in the building today after winning nationals, so make sure that when you see her you tell her congratulations. And this is Kimmie.”

With that, Meissner laughed and bounced along on her way to collect her champion’s medal.

LYSACEK TAKES MEN’S TITLE Evan Lysacek won his first national title Saturday after finishing second and third the past two years. Although Lysacek has placed ahead of Johnny Weir in recent international competitions, he has been unable to top Weir, who had won the last three titles, at the nationals. Ryan Bradley finished second, and Weir third.

Lysacek landed the first quad jump of his career in the competition, doing a quad toe loop-triple toe loop combination on the first jump of his program. He also completed eight triple jumps, all cleanly.

ITALIAN WINS EUROPEAN TITLE Carolina Kostner landed six triple jumps to become the first Italian to win the women’s title Saturday at the European Figure Skating Championships in Warsaw. (AP)
694 2007-01-28 Saturday’s practice was a light one physically, too, with dry runs through plays and shooting drills. Though officially listed as questionable for the game against the Bucks (17-26), Curry took part in both and said he felt well.

Thomas, who knows about the kind of scoring barrage Crawford has provided in recent games, said that he and his former Pistons backcourt partner Joe Dumars would call the condition being “in the thang.”

Thomas says it differs from a regular hot streak in that it lasts longer. Crawford scored 29 points — 23 in the fourth quarter — in the game before Friday’s victory, a 112-107 loss to the Suns. If Crawford continues his onslaught, it bodes well for the Knicks (19-26), who have shown potential this season but have been inconsistent.

“You are hot for like a game,” Thomas said, “but if you are in the thang, you can — like Vince Carter, he’ll get into the thang for like a week and it’s like 30, 30, 30. Boom, boom, boom, boom.”

Asked if he thought the Knicks could ride Crawford’s play to more victories, Curry, a close friend of Crawford’s, demurred. “I don’t know, but we’re about to find out,” he said, laughing.

Curry also said that his sore left calf felt loose.

He joked that when he returned, the Knicks’ No. 1 option would be Crawford.

“I don’t even want to shoot the ball,” Curry said. “I want him to score 50 again. I want to be out there when he does it next time.”

For perspective on Crawford, Thomas looked to other streaky shooters. He named Fred Brown, Gus Williams, Scott Wedman and his former teammate Vinnie Johnson.

The player who will lose his starting job — though, considering the team’s frequent lineup shakeups, for probably considerably fewer than 2,000 games — is Jeffries. The seldom-used James started against the Heat, to guard Shaquille O’Neal, but the 6-foot-11 Jeffries has been a regular since missing the first 22 games of the season with a wrist injury and after sitting out a four-game suspension for his role in the Dec. 16 brawl with the Denver Nuggets. He is averaging under 5 points a game .

Thomas said that Quentin Richardson, who has been playing shooting guard, would move to Jeffries’s position at small forward. Crawford would play shooting guard.

Thomas said he has been impressed with Crawford’s consistent mechanics and his confidence.

So why can’t Crawford play like that all the time? When it comes to 16 straight baskets and 52 points, there are no easy answers, even on a lighthearted day.

Thomas beckoned a reporter’s 5-year-old child. “Answer this question for me,” he said. Then, turning back to the reporters, he said: “Really, I don’t know. I just know that’s how it is.”

CATO SEEKS CUSTODY OF SON Knicks center Kelvin Cato wants custody of his 6-year-old son, who was found living in a urine-soaked apartment with more than 30 cats last year.

Cato’s lawyers in Oregon said their client learned of the child’s plight only after they told him about news accounts of the criminal case against the boy’s mother, Jennifer Gaines.

Gaines, 36, was convicted in Washington County Circuit Court of criminal mistreatment of her son and of animal neglect. (AP)
695 2007-01-28 The Saudis appear to be rediscovering that painfully high energy prices take a profound toll on the global economy, which in turn reduces demand for their oil. But other motives seem to be at work, too, including the Saudis’ desire to restrain Iran’s ambitions in the region.

How much influence the United States has exerted is an open question. Vice President Dick Cheney met with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in Riyadh in November, but his office would not say if oil was discussed. The White House has been supportive of Saudi energy policy, and President Bush and his father are close with Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi national security minister and former ambassador to Washington.

Although Saudi officials say their oil policy is based on market considerations and not political ones, the meeting in November led to renewed speculation that the kingdom might be tempted to dry out Iran’s ambitions by pushing oil prices down. Prices have already been falling because of mild weather and slowing demand.

Prices at $50 to $55 a barrel are just about right for the Saudis, according to Saudi energy officials — not too high to hurt the global economy, not too low to hurt their own economy. Last year’s record highs meant that the growth in global oil demand slowed to 1 percent in 2006, compared with a 4 percent increase at its peak in 2004.

But 2006 was not the first reminder for the Saudis that too-high prices can backfire. The oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s also set off a scramble for gas-sipping cars and a brief push to wean the West from its oil dependency. In recent months, the higher prices have rekindled America’s quest for alternatives and propelled energy security to the top of the agenda in the United States and Europe.

Even President Bush, who began his presidency emphasizing the need to increase domestic oil production rather than cutting consumption, called for a reduction in gasoline use over the next decade in last week’s State of the Union address.

High prices have also emboldened rivals within OPEC, among them Iran and Venezuela, which have used their oil revenue to prop up their governments and export their more radical agendas. Saudi Arabia has worked cooperatively with Iran since the late 1990s, when oil producers were panicked by the decline of prices to around $10 a barrel. More recently, Iran has favored rising prices over the moderation that Saudi Arabia seeks. Venezuela also tends to favor higher prices but wields less political influence in the cartel.

“High prices are not in the interest of Saudi Arabia,” said Sadek Boussena, a former OPEC president from Algeria. “We’ve all seen what $70 does: it attracts alternatives, it reduces demand. On the other hand, I don’t think the Saudis want oil below $50. They need the revenue.”

The Bush administration has repeatedly acknowledged Saudi Arabia’s efforts in trying to moderate prices. “Buyers and sellers have a common interest in maintaining reasonable prices for oil,” Samuel Bodman, the energy secretary, said in October.

There is no set formula for setting oil prices. In the 1980s, the market settled on around $18 a barrel as a fair price. In the 1990s, it was ratcheted up to $22 to $25 a barrel. Recently, oil producers have realized they can charge twice that amount, although consuming nations complain that the price is too high.

Mr. Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, borrowing the manner of a careful central banker, is rarely explicit about his plans. His every word is dissected by legions of analysts for the slightest hint of an inflection in policy.

Sometimes, the uncertainty gives rise to more conspiratorial theories. Oil traders have been buzzing in recent weeks about whether Saudi Arabia was seeking to depress oil markets in hopes of crippling Iran’s economy, as a Saudi analyst — albeit not one from the government — suggested late last year in an opinion article in The Washington Post. The Saudis quickly dismissed the claim, but given the tensions in the Middle East, oil and politics remain closely linked.

“It is difficult to work out what the Saudis really want, since they never say things explicitly,” said Leo Drollas, the chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies, a London-based research group founded by Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, a former Saudi oil minister. Sometimes, he said, “you have to read between the lines.”

The Saudi government does not disclose what oil price it uses when it builds its budget, but analysts at Samba Financial Group, a bank in Saudi Arabia, say they believe the price is $42 a barrel for 2007, with oil production at about 9 million barrels a day. With oil averaging $66 a barrel last year, the kingdom recorded a budget surplus of nearly $71 billion, Samba said, five times more than in 2005.

Saudi officials repeatedly point out that they do not set the price of oil on international commodity markets — they point the finger at hedge funds and other speculative traders for the heightened volatility in recent years. Nor, they say, do they run their oil industry with political considerations in mind.

Mr. Naimi has led the ascent of oil prices since 2000 and managed his various partners within OPEC toward better discipline within the cartel. Last fall, under Saudi stewardship, OPEC members twice agreed to cut their output to prevent prices from falling too steeply.

More than any specific target, the Saudis have always sought stability in oil prices. But stability may prove just as elusive this year as it did last year, given how vulnerable global oil supplies remain to the vagaries of the weather as well as political turmoil in the Middle East and Africa.

Although OPEC’s 12 members decide by unanimous votes whether to increase oil production — which lowers prices by making supply more plentiful — consumer pressures ultimately hold sway, and an extremely cold winter followed by a very hot summer could override whatever price goals the Saudis have set.

Not everyone is reading the Saudis’ recent public signals — scant as they are — in the same way. “The Saudi policy has not changed,” said Roger Diwan, an energy analyst at PFC Energy. The Saudis, he said, have “led the way in managing the market. They showed leadership in OPEC.”

But Amy Myers Jaffe, the associate director of Rice University’s energy program, said she thought that Saudi policy had shifted, backing away from a defense of higher prices.

“The debate in Saudi Arabia is about what is the right strategy, where demand is headed, and what is the right amount of investments,” she said. “And that’s a very tough question.”
696 2007-01-28 “I wish it didn’t have to end,” said Ricardo Guadalupe, who was laid off from the plant last year and still gazes at the brick behemoth of a factory every time he drops his two sons off at the school. “I wish it could have lasted forever.”

The school will remain open, but Mr. Guadalupe, who lives several miles away, now works in New Jersey and is not sure how much longer it will make sense to send his children there.

On Monday, Pfizer, the world’s biggest pharmaceutical firm, said it would slash 7,800 jobs in the United States, Europe and Japan. Several of its best-selling drugs are losing their patent protection and will face competition from cheaper generics. The jobs at the Brooklyn plant will be phased out over the next two years.

In many quarters, the announcement was not exactly surprising. For a while now, continuing to operate the Brooklyn plant, where Lipitor, Zoloft, Viagra and other drugs are manufactured and distributed, seemed more a good-will gesture to the borough of Pfizer’s birth than a business decision.

“They could have left many years ago and found a lower cost-environment,” said Michael Rochford, executive director of the St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit group that found buyers for the 140 town houses, named the Edmund T. Pratt Jr. Houses after a Pfizer chairman. “But they resisted the trend, and then became the catalyst for development as well as providing jobs for the community.”

But surprise or not, the decision is still a shock. “This was one of the things that you knew in your gut was going to be in the community forever,” Reginald Tyson, a 40-year-old out-of-work copier technician, said as he walked by the plant on Thursday afternoon. Mr. Tyson never worked at the plant, but his mother did, and like everyone in the neighborhood, he knew dozens of others who worked there, too.

Almost from the day more than a century and a half ago that it introduced its first blockbuster drug, a toffee-flavored intestinal-worm remedy called Santonin, Pfizer has been an outsized presence in Brooklyn.

Its founders shook and moved the borough. A company scion’s rumored dalliance with a burlesque actress was grist for the society pages. “Mr. Pfizer Rises to Explain,” read an 1893 headline in The New York Times, “He Is Interested in Nina Farrington, but Did Not Elope With Her.” A Pfizer president became a co-owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers.

Brooklyn, of course, changed, and by the 1970s, the neighborhood around the plant had become a burnt-out dead zone. Drugs and crime were rampant. Inhabited buildings were not.

Pfizer, which had moved its headquarters from Flushing Avenue to Manhattan in 1961, tried to attract other industrial tenants to the area but could not.

Rather than fleeing, as so many manufacturers and corporations did all over New York City in the 1970s, Pfizer, wanting to hold onto both its veteran work force and its birthplace, decided to help rebuild the neighborhood, on the theory that it would be both good for business and good for the neighbors.

It formed a public-private partnership with the city to develop jobs, housing and education. “Nothing like it has been tried before by a manufacturer in the city,” The New York Times wrote in 1985.

Pfizer had plenty of unused land near the plant. It cleaned up the property — not a cheap endeavor — and granted some to the city for the town houses, two-family starter homes for low- and middle-income owners. The company bought tax credits and conveyed them to nonprofit developers. A handful of blocks away, Pfizer invested in a St. Nicholas corporation apartment building whose tenants used to be homeless.

In 1989, an educational reform group wanted to open an alternative public school in the neighborhood. Pfizer offered it the vacant four-story building across Flushing Avenue from the plant, kicked in half a million dollars for renovations and offered a broad support network for the school, called the Beginning with Children Charter School.

“Whenever the founding principal would have an issue, she’d call up Pfizer,” said Mimi Corcoran, executive director of the Beginning with Children Foundation, which runs the school. “Employees would come over and mentor our children. They’d send over engineers. They helped build our science labs.”

Where the towering Pfizer smokestack once stood, Pfizer architects and engineers drew up plans and oversaw construction of a beautiful playground, complete with a gazebo area where the children can have class outside in nice weather.

“It sounds kind of Pollyannaish,” Ms. Corcoran said, “but they were incredibly generous.”

Pfizer’s loyalty to the city has been amply rewarded by the Bloomberg administration. In 2003, the company was granted $46 million in tax breaks, spread over 15 years, in return for expanding operations in Manhattan. It was not clear whether the closing of the Brooklyn plant would prompt the city to cancel the tax break.

The school now has 450 students, and its students consistently score higher than the city average, and far higher than students at schools in the surrounding area. Parents who work at the plant feel torn.

“If I could happen to find some job around here and still keep my kids in the school, that would be great,” said Sam Hernandez, a warehouse operator with 11 years experience.

But Mr. Hernandez, 30, has moved to Staten Island — thanks in part to the relatively high wages at Pfizer, which can reach $30 an hour for veteran operators. Like Mr. Guadalupe, Mr. Hernandez said he was not sure how long his children would stay at the school.

Even after the plant shuts down, Pfizer has promised it will not abandon the area. It plans to spend several million dollars to help turn its boarded-up original 1849 headquarters next to the school into the Charles Pfizer Community Education Center. The center will offer after-school programs, adult education and a training center for science and math teachers.

Pfizer owns about 10 acres around the plant and, company officials say, wants to work with the community and the city to come up with a comprehensive plan for it that includes housing and commercial space as it sells off its holdings.

“Despite the difficult decision to close the facility,” said Richard Luftglass, Pfizer’s senior director for philanthropy, “we do appreciate the legacy that is there. And we appreciate the obligation to the community.”

The neighborhood around the plant remains shaky and shabby in places, but Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City, a nonprofit business coalition of which Pfizer has been a longtime member, said there was only so much one company could do. And she thanked Pfizer for its efforts.

“Had they closed this plant 20 years ago,” she said, “it would have been a devastating blow to New York City and to that community in particular. Today, given the state of the economy and the renaissance of Brooklyn, it’s a blow, but it’s one that we can survive.”
697 2007-01-28 The stock market retreated last week as investors calculated that interest rates won’t be dropping when Federal Reserve policy makers meet on Wednesday.

Several government reports suggested that the economy remains robust — perhaps too much so to justify a cut in the Fed funds rate, the Fed’s benchmark short-term rate, which has remained at 5.25 percent since June. On Friday, for example, the Commerce Department said that new-home sales in December jumped to an annual rate of 1.12 million units, and durable-goods orders in December rose 3.1 percent. Both were more than Wall Street had expected.

Shares of General Motors gained 4.4 percent for the week, the most among the Dow industrials. The company said it would report a profit for the fourth quarter, although its 2006 financial results would be delayed.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 78.51 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 12,487.02. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 8.32 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,422.18. The Nasdaq composite index lost 15.82 points, or about 0.7 percent, to close at 2,435.49.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond climbed to 4.87 percent from 4.78 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER
698 2007-01-28 Last year, private equity represented 20 percent of the mergers and acquisitions market, more than double the year before. No one at a symposium on Thursday night that included Stephen G. Pagliuca of Bain Capital, Peter Weinberg of Perella Weinberg and Jeffrey Rosen of Lazard, among others, seemed to be worried about a downturn anytime soon.

Indeed, about 64 percent of the attendees at the dinner said they expected private equity to account for 26 percent or more of the M.& A. market in five years, and some predicted that it would reach one-third of the market or more.

Those, of course, are the people who are making the buyout deals. But even Mr. Evans, the chief executive of a big public company, laid out the case for going private.

“In some cases, there are advantages to being private,” he said, ticking off a list of benefits that went far beyond what he described as “compliance overkill” at public companies. He said that the mind-set of public company mangers and board members was often wrong. “There’s a preoccupation with risk aversion,” he said. “It’s the opportunity cost that’s lost.”

Donald J. Gogel, the chief executive of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, the large private equity firm, agreed. “We have an unfair advantage,” he said. Another factor in private equity’s favor: the ability to pay enormous pay-for-performance packages without an outcry from public shareholders.

As one buyout king put it over drinks here, “If one of my C.E.O.’s made $100 million, I’d say that’s great because it means that we probably just made $2 billion.”

What is unacceptable for a public chief executive becomes a powerful incentive in the private sphere.

“You know, it’s ironic,” said the buyout king, who spoke on the condition that his firm not be identified because he did not want to upset his investors. “Calpers screams when a public company C.E.O. is making a lot of money, but are completely content as a limited partner in a private equity firm to pay him a fortune when the company is private.”

Not everyone is convinced that the entire world will be taken over by private equity.

John A. Thain, the chief executive of the NYSE Group, said that all these “going privates” will soon be “going public” again.

Half of last year’s initial public offerings on the New York Stock Exchange, which the NYSE Group operates, represented private equity firms exiting their investments, Mr. Thain said, making buyout shops “our biggest customers.” He also suggested that as interest rates continued to rise, low-cost leverage would evaporate, and buyouts of listed companies would look less attractive. “The cycle will change eventually,” he said.

And despite the rah-rah talk about private equity here — Mr. Schwarzman had a line of well-wishers when he announced on Thursday that he had raised his bid for Equity Office Properties to more than $38 billion — there were some concerns that the rise of private equity had been almost too fast and would be closely scrutinized by governments around the world.

“They should no longer consider themselves untouchable,” said Philip J. Jennings, general secretary of UNI Global Union, the international association of trade unions, which says it has 15 million members in 150 countries. “They are like a global vacuum cleaner Hoover-ing up assets any place, anywhere, any time and we want to bring them out of the shadows.”

While not speaking directly about private equity, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called for more “transparency” in all businesses. “I see the need to catch up with hedge funds,” she said.

Still, at least for now, it appears that the call for more transparency may be private equity’s best calling card. Mr. Schwarzman recounted how a chief executive at a company he acquired told him how much he was looking forward to board meetings now that the company was private.

What was so different?

The chief executive told him that as a public company, whenever the directors meet “they bring their own lawyers.”
699 2007-01-28 “Tech stocks have become the darlings of the S.& P. 500,” said Mike Thompson, managing director of global research at Thomson Financial.

That comes as somewhat of a surprise, given that tech stocks appreciated only 7.7 percent last year, on average, versus the 13.6 percent price gain for the broad S.& P. 500.

But with energy stocks and commodities possibly losing steam, investors are searching for the next investment group that may catch fire. And right now, the consensus seems to have settled on technology — the one sector that hasn’t experienced a sustained rally since the bear market of 2000.

It’s noteworthy that investors aren’t simply betting that tech stock prices will rise more than the broader market. Rather, they are counting on tech company earnings to swell.

In fact, “if tech earnings don’t come in as forecast, then we’re going to have some real problems,” Mr. Thompson said.

That’s because, relatively speaking, investor expectations are as high for this sector as they have been in several years.

Wall Street analysts predict that tech profits will grow 17 percent in 2007, according to Thomson Financial. By contrast, earnings among all companies in the S.& P. 500 are expected to jump by a much more modest 7.9 percent, on average. And if you strip out tech’s expected contributions to the broad market, overall corporate profits are expected to improve by 6.8 percent this year. That’s a far cry from the double-digit growth enjoyed by S.& P. 500 companies for the past 13 quarters.

“It’s really the first time since the bubble burst seven years ago that tech earnings are expected to be such a major contributor to the broad market’s earnings,” said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.

But therein lies a potential problem. Although tech earnings are expected to improve, market strategists say that there is a distinct possibility that these companies won’t quite reach the high bar that Wall Street has set.

There are plenty of reasons to be bullish on the sector: the introduction of Microsoft’s new Vista operating system, for instance, is expected to set off a new round of corporate and consumer technology spending later this year and in 2008. But total technology revenues are expected to increase by only about 14 percent in 2007, according to analysts at Morgan Stanley. That would be a slower rate of revenue growth than in 2005 and 2006.

Moreover, Michael F. Sola, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Science & Technology fund in Baltimore, points out that profit margins at many tech companies are already at or near their pre-bubble peaks. And if profit margins don’t continue to improve and if revenues don’t exceed expectations, it will be hard for many tech companies to meet and exceed their profit targets.

Mr. Sola says he is concerned that earnings expectations are already making it difficult for tech to surprise on the upside. “Typically, you get significant runs in sectors when earnings estimates start off too low and sentiment is poor,” he said. Right now, however, the opposite is true.

For his part, Mr. Kleintop predicts that earnings for the tech sector will grow at a much more modest pace — around 9 to 10 percent — this year. As a result, he said, overall S.& P. 500 earnings may grow by only around 3 percent.

How will you know who’s right — Mr. Kleintop or the Wall Street consensus? Pay attention to these trends:

IS I.T. SPENDING CLIMBING? Despite the start of Microsoft Vista and other product upgrades, sales for information technology, including services and enterprise software, are expected grow at a slower pace than in 2005. Many people believe that companies will probably wait until the latter half of this year or until 2008 to bolster spending on technology upgrades. But if companies do accelerate investments in the first half of 2007, it could be good news for tech earnings and for overall corporate profits.

IS THE ECONOMY SLOWING BUT GROWING? Robert E. Turner, chairman and chief investment officer of Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa., said that most companies “have moved beyond the shock of the bubble and have the money to spend on I.T.” But this assumption depends on a slowing-but-growing economy. Should talk of a possible recession creep back onto Wall Street, he said, all bets are off.

ARE TECH COMPANIES HITTING TARGETS? “In the first week of this year, there was a notion that this was the year for large-cap tech stocks,” said John F. Jostrand, portfolio manager of the William Blair Growth fund in Chicago. But then, a group of tech companies — including Intel, Apple, Motorola and Symantec — reported disappointing earnings news, which has tech investors somewhat concerned. That was followed, however, by better-than-expected reports from Yahoo and Sun Microsystems, so the trend remains unclear.

Mr. Jostrand points out that tech investing today is nothing like it was in the late 1990s. Back then, Wall Street was more than willing to bet on tech’s potential. Today, investors actually want their tech companies to show them the money — as in actual realized profit growth.

And if they don’t deliver, investors will be more than willing to walk away from the sector — again.
700 2007-01-28 Melissa Nicole Bolton and Brendan Daniel Klinger were married last evening at the Metropolitan Building in Long Island City, Queens. Harris Edelman, a minister of the Church of Spiritual Humanism, officiated.

Mrs. Bolton-Klinger, 34, works in Manhattan as a senior writer and producer of on-air promotional advertisements for VH1, part of Viacom International. She graduated from Northwestern.

She is the daughter of Judith Bolton of Chicago and Dr. Edgar Bolton of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and the stepdaughter of Karen Bolton. Her father is a pulmonologist in Fort Lauderdale. Her mother retired as a marketing director for New Century Marketing in Chicago.

The bridegroom, who will also use the surname Bolton-Klinger, is 32. He is a Web design strategist for Deutsch, the advertising agency in Manhattan. He graduated from Wesleyan University and received a Master of Fine Arts degree in interactive art from the School of Visual Arts.

He is the son of Janis Klinger and Richard Klinger of Los Angeles. His mother is a retired vocalist and composer whose professional name was Janis Hansen. She was a member of Sergio Mendes’s band, Brasil ’66. His father is an independent producer of videos, including the “Jane Fonda Workout” series.
701 2007-01-28 Mr. Smicklas became interested in the water E.T.F. after he started thinking about various commodities during the oil-price surge last year. Water is a narrow slice of the stock market, and Mr. Smicklas acknowledged that without the E.T.F., he wouldn’t have known where to start. “I think the only water company I knew was Calgon,” he recalled. Industry names like Insituform Technologies and Companhia de Saneamento Básico do Estado de São Paulo didn’t jump to mind.

With a good deal of research, Mr. Smicklas might have eventually found those companies and thoroughly analyzed them. Still, he had no way to gain access to private equity investments, which seemed to be the domain of American chief executives, Saudi princes or deposed foreign presidents — not retired Ohio educators.

Well, what popped into Mr. Smicklas’s e-mail box the other day? An ad for PowerShares Listed Private Equity Portfolio — an E.T.F. that mimics the Red Rocks Capital Listed Private Equity Index. The Red Rocks index tracks public companies that make direct investments in privately held companies.

And just look at some of the offerings from Rydex Investments. In addition to E.T.F.’s tracking foreign currencies like the Australian dollar and the Swiss franc, Rydex offers “alternative” mutual funds like the Rydex Dynamic Strengthening Dollar and Dynamic Weakening Dollar funds. These invest in index swaps, options and futures contracts in order to double returns on the real-world performance of the dollar, with a bet on its direction. Before E.T.F.’s and funds like these, speculating in currencies probably would have required setting up a managed futures account at a brokerage firm.

Currency, water and private equity E.T.F.’s? It sounds like the Wild West out there to Christine Benz, director of mutual fund analysis at Morningstar. “Seems the E.T.F. industry is making a lot of the same mistakes that the fund industry made in the ’90s when there were a lot of gimmicky, narrowly focused products that didn’t belong in investors’ portfolios,” she said.

Like many investment experts, Ms. Benz says the average investor has enough of a task analyzing traditional stock and bond funds and doesn’t need to complicate matters with a bunch of esoteric new products.

David Reilly, director of portfolio strategies at Rydex, has heard that sort of criticism before. He recalled reading a magazine recently in which a financial adviser called such niche products “just another way to shoot yourself in the head.” But Mr. Reilly contends that “the data don’t warrant that perception.” He says, for instance, that funds that track the movement of the dollar against foreign currencies are great for diversification because they move independently of more common asset classes like stocks and bonds. “They’re not really correlated at all,” he said.

Lowering portfolio volatility and reducing downside risk through smart hedging is also the financial goal of Mark D. Wolfinger, author of a 2005 book, “Create Your Own Hedge Fund.” He advocates, for instance, using a simple covered-call strategy with E.T.F. options — essentially selling a call option on an S.& P. 500 or Russell 2000 E.T.F. that you already own — through the American Stock Exchange. (If your eyes are already beginning to bleed, be warned that this is probably the simplest strategy in the book.) This allows a hedger to collect a modest premium from selling the call as well as to receive a bit of downside insurance if the E.T.F. slips in price.

“Before E.T.F.’s, one could not easily write covered calls on a diversified stock portfolio, unless one owned the entire index portfolio,” Mr. Wolfinger said. “That’s a very awkward and expensive thing to do and requires lots of trading.”

And as long as you’re in a hedging frame of mind, remember that you can now hedge against real estate declines or speculate on the direction of housing prices. Last spring, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange started offering futures contracts pegged to housing price indexes in 10 major metropolitan areas, including New York, Chicago, Denver and San Diego. What’s more, a new Web site, HedgeStreet, allows investors to trade contracts on economic statistics like 30-year mortgage rates or consumer prices.

If you like the idea of Soros-like risk taking — but are worried about go-it-alone strategies — more and more mutual funds are offering trading strategies borrowed from hedge funds, like going both long and short on stocks. Ric Dillon, portfolio manager of the Diamond Hill Long-Short A fund in Columbus, Ohio, says the popularity of such funds really started growing after the Internet bubble burst in 2000. “Investors started looking for a better return, really any return at all,” he said.

MR. DILLON says the major differences between his long-short mutual fund and a similar hedge fund he manages are that the mutual fund doesn’t use leverage and will short up to only 40 percent of the fund.

But in both funds, he says, he uses classic Benjamin Graham-Warren Buffett value-investing analysis to find stocks that aren’t trading at their intrinsic values, based on estimates of future cash flow. He shorts stocks trading above what he deems that intrinsic value, like Procter & Gamble, and buys those trading below, like Devon Energy. Diamond Hill Long-Short A has more than doubled the average annual return of the S.& P. 500 during the last five years, though the fund has a front-end load, or sales charge, of 5 percent.

He urges caution in using aggressive trading strategies. Using an aphorism sometimes attributed to John Maynard Keynes, Mr. Dillon said, “The market can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent.”

Not as catchy as “shaken, not stirred,” but certainly worth remembering.
702 2007-01-28 Appetizers, which lent themselves to less social interaction, were successful anyway. They included a duck pâté with its fruity Cumberland sauce and accompanying salad of celery and walnuts; roasted red peppers over fresh mozzarella, drizzled with a basil vinaigrette; and Swiss onion soup, topped with Emmenthal cheese.

The Caesar salad was more compelling than the Greek version, possibly because the Parmesan used in the Caesar was more noticeable than the feta in the Greek. Crab cakes were overly seasoned and overworked, with no visible chunks of meat; house-made spinach dumplings were delicately flavored, once they had been fished from their sea of sauce. The pasta encircling a pheasant filling in the ravioli special, however, was less than tender.

Main dishes were more consistent, particularly the European specialties: the slab of tender sauerbraten, marinated steak, in brown gravy, accompanied by a heap of steaming hot spaetzle and marinated red cabbage; the hunter schnitzel, a tender disc of fried veal served with a typical Burgundy-mushroom sauce, again with cabbage and spaetzle; and the wiener schnitzel, the fried veal without the gravy.

There were a few standouts among the game specials, which are offered in winter and change weekly. Venison stew was delicious, the meat made tender by a red wine marinade and braising with mushrooms, pearl onions and bacon and served with more of the spaetzle. A close second was the game sampler, which included a sweetish smoked duck sausage infused with apple brandy, a tender venison loin and wild boar medallions wrapped in bacon.

A New York strip steak was nicely cooked as well, though the garlic mashed potatoes seemed rote next to the beautiful, golden-brown, crisp-on-the-outside, tender-on-the-inside rösti, a Swiss version of hash browns that was enriched with bacon and onions. Pheasant, however, was a disappointment, overcooked and dry on two separate visits.

Among the many menu items I didn’t try, the fish and chips, made with cod in a beer batter, is atop my list. The best bet for dessert is not the house-made apple strudel, which had a floppy crust and steaming filling, but Mr. Gross’s walnut and caramel-fudge tart. Order it when you place your meal order and ask the server to allow your piece to sit out of the refrigerator during dinner. That way the flavors enhance each other — just the way the satisfying food at Pheasants Landing complements a winter evening.

THE SPACE Intimate and cozy, with room for large and small groups. Complete wheelchair access.

THE CROWD Convivial and casual; friendly, helpful servers; few children were seen, but they would feel at home here. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in January and February are fondue nights; there is a strolling accordion player on Thursdays.

THE BAR Small wine list with solid choices, $21 to $70 a bottle; glasses, $5 to $6.50.

THE BILL Lunch, about $9 to $10.50. Dinner entrees, $10 to $24. All major credit cards accepted.

WHAT WE LIKE Swiss onion soup, roasted red peppers with mozzarella, Caesar salad, wiener schnitzel, sauerbraten, hunter schnitzel, cheese fondue, Swiss-style hash brown potatoes, venison stew, wild boar medallions, smoked duck sausage.

IF YOU GO Lunch: Tuesday to Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: Tuesday to Thursday, 4 to 9 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 4 to 10 p.m.; Sunday, 4 to 8 p.m. Reservations recommended on weekends. Plentiful parking next to the building.
703 2007-01-28 Svetlana Choi, a senior sales associate at Bellmarc Realty, estimated that at least a quarter of her clients are skeptical when they first come to her.

“I just try to draw them out and relate to them in a way that lets them know that I’m not the enemy,” she said. “I’m not trying to snow them. I’m really just trying to be helpful.”

So why do people often have trouble trusting a broker?

To start with, brokers are salespeople, so buyers with suspicious minds would naturally suspect brokers of trying to sell them something they don’t necessarily want or need. But brokers also admit that some real estate agents help to perpetuate stereotypes with classic bait-and-switch schemes and by putting their own desires to close a deal over a client’s best interests. The fact that brokers themselves sometimes find it hard to trust one another only compounds the level of suspicion in real estate.

There are two major sources of broker-to-broker mistrust. The first is the fear that one broker may be trying to poach another’s client. The second is that a seller’s broker may be deliberately avoiding phone calls or refusing to submit an offer because he or she wants to avoid having to share the commission. The cynicism may well stem from the fiercely competitive marketplace and the fact that there are more than 28,700 brokers and sales agents in Manhattan alone and 66,700 in all five boroughs.

Erik Serras, a sales agent at Pari Passu Realty in Manhattan, said another agent recently stood outside an open house that Mr. Serras was holding just to hand out his business card. “It was the equivalent of ambulance chasing, and it sheds a negative light on the industry on the whole,” he said. “There are just too many untrained agents out there doing things that are unethical and unprofessional, and once a client is exposed to that, the damage is done because it’s easy for people to generalize.”

Ann Rothman, a Bellmarc agent, said that some people were quick to judge brokers because they “just have a queasy feeling about real estate.” She added that she sometimes finds herself saying, “I do real estate, so yes, I sell used cars, and people are going to think the speedometer has been changed.”

But Ms. Rothman tries to be philosophical about it. “Any person in a service business is going to be up against that,” she said. “Even if you go to a doctor or a dentist, there are going to be people who think they’re only doing a procedure because they have their kid’s college education or a trip to finance.”

When she comes across skeptical clients, Ms. Rothman said, “I’ll bring it up, and I’ll say, ‘What’s the problem here?’ ” That seems to work, she added, citing as proof an entire family of doubting buyers. “They all have a distrust gene,” she said, “but they keep referring other family members to me.”

Another instance when a broker might appear to be evasive is at an open house. When brokers hold open houses, they represent the sellers, but they also routinely use the events as an opportunity to pick up other clients. So if a potential buyer walks in and doesn’t seem right for that particular apartment, the broker can offer to help the buyer find something else. But under the unwritten rules of the game, the broker does not have to disclose whether there are any other open houses in the same building, particularly if the events are being held by competing firms.

These kinds of situations can easily lead to mistrust on the part of sellers and buyers alike.

Managers at real estate agencies say that the only way to minimize misunderstandings is to train new agents to be highly professional and to establish and enforce industry standards. To that end, the Real Estate Board of New York has established a list of 17 resolutions aimed at addressing ethical questions in residential real estate.

The resolutions cover issues as basic as the definition of an “exclusive” and the need to have backup brokers available when the exclusive broker is not available. They also try to cut down on typical broker squabbles by declaring it improper to foist a business card on someone else’s client and asserting that brokers should give co-brokers and their customers at least 20 minutes’ grace time if they’re late for an appointment.

Diane Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property and a governor of the real estate board, said, “Some of these things may seem silly, but it creates a framework of proper decorum.”

The board and its policies have evolved to make it clearer that “we are an industry that works for our sellers and buyers, and that should be our primary goal,” Ms. Ramirez said. “That’s the only way to dispel the distrust that comes in, not because it’s earned but because of what our reputation may have been.”

The real estate board also has an ethics committee that handles complaints filed by brokers against other brokers. Stephen Kliegerman, Halstead’s executive director for development marketing and a former chairman of the ethics committee, said the committee handles only a handful of cases each year, but he added that most complaints do not get to the board because agency managers tend to resolve complaints among themselves.

One of the biggest current complaints involves brokers who post listings on their Web sites for the exclusive properties of other brokers. “They’ll advertise a property they don’t represent, or sometimes the property doesn’t even exist,” Mr. Kliegerman said. “So when the buyer calls, it’s a bait-and-switch — the broker knows nothing about the property and winds up trying to take them to something completely different.”

He said the ethics committee is developing a new resolution to deal with the problem. “This kind of thing happens daily, and it taints the consumer’s impression of the entire broker community,” he said.

Consumers can file complaints about real estate agents with the Department of State in New York, the Real Estate Commission in New Jersey and the Department of Consumer Protection in Connecticut.

The New York Department of State can punish agents for infractions ranging from practicing without a license to a catchall category labeled “untrustworthiness and incompetency.” The latter can include things like lying about the school district for a particular address or misleading a buyer about future development in the area.

If the number of complaints filed in New York in recent years is any indication, brokers may actually be becoming more trustworthy. From 2001 to 2005, the last year with complete statistics, the annual number of complaints declined from 1,589 to 1,176.

The complaint category that showed the sharpest drop and that accounts for most of the decline was in “agency disclosure,” indicating that real estate agents have gotten better at disclosing whether they are a seller’s broker or buyer’s broker and what that means in terms of where their loyalty lies.

Of the completed cases from 2005, 109 real estate agents were fined, 3 had their licenses suspended, and 14 had their licenses revoked. Fines can run as high as $1,000, and suspension periods are determined on a case-by-case basis.

But most ethical breaches probably never reach either the real estate board or the Department of State. Ms. Rothman of Bellmarc recalled a case in which she represented a buyer who made an all-cash, full-price offer on an apartment, only to have the seller’s agent stall and falsely claim that the sellers wanted time to consider the offer.

“I later found out that he was waiting for a customer of his own to make an offer and he never even told the sellers about my offer,” she said. She filed a complaint with the other agent’s manager, and her buyers eventually got the apartment.

When training new agents, larger real estate companies stress the need for proper broker etiquette, both with clients and with other brokers.

Vasco Da Silva, the director of sales at Halstead’s Riverdale office, says Halstead’s broker boot camp tells agents when they should keep their business cards in their pockets, advises them to turn off cellphones while showing an apartment and instructs them never to talk about an apartment inside an elevator if there are other people around.

“We go through a logical step-by-step process, and it’s all about winning a customer’s loyalty and trust,” he said. “You don’t get it with your first meeting, so what you have to do is win your customers over with service and with confidence in your ability.”

In its training, Bellmarc urges new agents to be as straightforward as possible and to avoid pushing an apartment on a reluctant customer. “If someone doesn’t want an apartment, you don’t want to try to talk them into it,” said Janice Silver, an executive vice president at Bellmarc. “You can’t say, ‘But it’s fabulous — here’s why you should buy it.’ ”

Instead, she trains agents to ask simple questions like: Do you like this apartment? Can you see yourself living here? Do you want to buy this?

“Don’t be pushy, but be very direct,” she said. “Because if they don’t like the apartment, you should move on and not waste everybody’s time.”

Some brokers say their colleagues should not try to hide a property’s blemishes. Jill Sloane, a senior vice president at Halstead who is Ms. Mizrahi’s new broker, said she once represented a seller whose apartment came with a 33 percent flip tax, and she made a point of including that in her advertising materials.

“There was no point in hiding something like that because buyers would eventually find out about it anyway,” she said. “It’s just not worth the damage it would do to your reputation to be deceptive.”

Patricia Warburg Cliff, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group, agreed. “If I know that there’s a bus that idles under the living room window, I have to get it out first thing,” she said. “Because if a buyer finds out about it midway into a transaction, you have egg all over your face, and the seller isn’t served because they’re not out to swindle someone.”

Sometimes, even when a transaction provides a happy ending for everyone, a buyer can still be left with lingering doubts about the broker and his or her motives.

Take Rob and Lauren Mank, who are now happily living in an Upper West Side apartment they bought last year. Mr. Mank said they had no qualms about their agent, a buyers’ broker, until final negotiations, when she pushed them to offer the full asking price, which would have meant raising their bid by $45,000. They ultimately went up by $35,000 and got the apartment because two competing buyers did not raise their bids.

“I felt like it was very high pressure and her loyalty to us was compromised by her desire to do the deal,” he said. “It left us with a bad taste.”

But Ms. Mank said she didn’t believe there was any malice involved and noted that without a crystal ball, there is no way of knowing if they could have gotten the apartment for less.

“Maybe you’re always going to want to blame someone for some infraction because you’re always going to feel taken advantage of in some way,” she said. “It’s a delicate and intimate situation because it’s your home and it’s your finances — the whole thing is just so fraught.”
704 2007-01-28 ANIMAL NY3597-07 blinks her big black eyes while lounging on her belly on a dry ledge in a lidless tank. Her fuzzy, bluish-gray fur is the distinct coat of a hooded seal less than a year old, and she appears soft enough to cuddle. But this is not a petting zoo; the pair of thick leather gloves hanging nearby is a reminder of that.

It is instead the Riverhead Foundation for Marine Research and Preservation, the only organization in New York authorized to rescue and rehabilitate seals, sea turtles, porpoises, whales and — as was well documented this month — dolphins. Home base is a series of rooms at the Atlantis Marine World Aquarium on Main Street.

At the heart of it is a warehouselike room fitted with 20 tanks, where distressed marine mammals that have been rescued struggle for life. Or, in the case of the hooded seal, recuperate quietly after swallowing a half-dozen rocks.

Animals brought to the foundation are meant to be treated and released. “We do everything we can to not interact with them,” said Becky Scott, a biologist who has worked at the foundation for two years. To remain emotionally unattached, the staff identifies its charges according to the order in which they are rescued. The hooded seal, for instance, was the 3,597th marine mammal it had rescued or recovered in New York. The numbers after the dash represent the year it was taken in.

But there is a book on display in the aquarium with biographies of rescued animals like Squirt, a harbor seal, and Horton, a Kemp’s ridley turtle. “The animals are named when they are deemed releasable as part of our adoption program,” Ms. Scott said.
705 2007-01-28 Buyers will purchase shares in the complex, but there are no board approvals, and owners can sublet the units anytime, Mr. Manson said.

Distinctive Ventures plans to start selling the first 27 units of the project this spring, and the units will be ready by fall, Mr. Manson said.

The company believes that wealthier second-home buyers who want year-round services are heading for Montauk. Clues came from the company’s research of Montauk’s rental market, Mr. Manson said.

“A lot of rentals in the last few seasons were longer term,” Mr. Manson said. “People want to own out there, but there’s very little that is brand new.”

When the pop artist Andy Warhol and Paul Morrissey, his manager and film collaborator, bought a 20-acre estate on the ocean in Montauk in 1971 for $225,000, they thought it was a good investment. That’s what Mr. Morrissey said last September when the remaining 5.6 acres was on the market for $40 million.

Perhaps that overestimated price how good an investment it was. Earlier this month, Millard S. Drexler, chief executive of the clothing company J. Crew, bought the estate for much less: $27 million, according to Paul Brennan of Prudential Douglas Elliman, who handled the sale.

The sold property, called Eothen, ancient Greek for “at first light,” sits in a valley among high cliffs in an area known as the Montauk moorlands. Mr. Morrissey listed it with several different real estate firms over the last five years, originally asking $50 million.

Eothen includes a compound of five Colonial Revival-style houses, a horse stable and a three-car garage. All of the houses have spectacular views of the Atlantic Ocean.

Mr. Drexler scouted Eothen for a friend who was interested, Mr. Brennan said, but then bought it himself when the friend passed on it. “He said, ‘It’s like a painting,’ a very unique property,” Mr. Brennan said.

The five homes, with 15 bedrooms in all, were built in 1931 for the Church family, descendants of a founder of the Church & Dwight Company, makers of Arm & Hammer baking soda. Seven of the bedrooms are in the main house, a rustic wood-paneled structure with blue shuttered windows and a great room with two fireplaces, exposed beams and a vaulted ceiling.

“I would say he has very good taste” to buy the estate, said Tina Fredericks, the East Hampton broker who sold Mr. Morrissey and Warhol the estate in 1971. As for the price, $40 million “always seemed rather high,” Ms. Fredericks said.

A developer is renovating the 1929 Shepherd’s Neck Inn, a 65-room Montauk hotel, and plans to convert it into a year-round “resort hotel” called Solé East. (Sole is Italian for “sun,” although the Italians don’t use an accent mark for the noun.)

The hotel will have 60 rooms on 2.5 landscaped acres when it opens in the spring, according to Tom Feeley, an owner of the development firm Wavestone Properties. Wavestone has also bought the Shepherd’s Beach hotel nearby and an adjacent five acres of vacant land, where the zoning was recently changed to permit residential development.

Wavestone has built condominiums and rental buildings in Jersey City and Hoboken, N.J., but this is its first project on Long Island.

Solé East will be one of two branded hotels, Mr. Feeley said. The first, called Solé on the Ocean, is a condominium hotel in Sunny Isles, Fla., which offers owners hotel-like services, including a concierge and housekeeping, and the ability to rent out their units as hotel rooms.

The look and feel of the Montauk hotel will come from Stephane Dupoux, whose interior design firm has designed highly stylized bars, nightclubs and hotels, including Buddha Bar and Cielo in Manhattan and the Gansevoort Beach Club hotel in South Beach.

The new hotel, Mr. Feeley said, will have high-definition flat-screen televisions, whitewashed walls, restored hardwood floors, cedar platform beds and black slate tile bathrooms with a large window in the wall separating the shower from the hotel room.

For winter visitors, there will be a 2,000-square-foot wine cellar and the developer will update the wood-burning fireplaces in the restaurant and in the lobby, Mr. Feeley said.

The Shepherd’s Neck Inn was originally called Montauk Arms. It was built by Carl Fisher, the developer who, with a partner, created Miami Beach from swampland in the 1920s.

After that success, Fisher tried to build a similar resort in Montauk. A devastating hurricane and the stock market crash of 1929 left Fisher financially ruined, but not before he had planned an entire community in Montauk for the wealthy and partially created some of it, including private homes, grand hotels, a yacht club, a school and office buildings.

The inn was to serve as apartments for the managers of his resorts in Montauk, according to a history provided by the Montauk Library. “We feel a connection with Carl Fisher’s original concept and his connection to both markets where we are opening, in Miami and Montauk,” Mr. Feeley said.
706 2007-01-28 What “Theologoumenon” evokes may be a matter of personal interpretation. Anthony Tommasini, reviewing the Carnegie Hall performance in The Times, wrote, “The music could be described as depicting the mind state sought during meditation, when you strive for contemplativeness and let intrusive thoughts just register and then float right by.” What the restless music unquestionably revealed was Mr. Wuorinen’s skill at handling large orchestral forces, with especially inventive use of the percussion section.

The symphony draws on the same musical materials used in the tone poem but represents “a directed kind of continuity in the symphonic tradition,” Mr. Wuorinen said. The two pieces, which were commissioned at roughly the same time, were conceived as parts of a larger whole: a single four-movement work of some 50 minutes’ duration.

“Levine intends at some point to put them together,” Mr. Wuorinen said. “He understood that from the very beginning. We discussed this aspect in connection with both of these commissions.”

That Mr. Levine is already contemplating revisiting these new works is characteristic of his method. After he and the Boston Symphony gave the premiere of Mr. Wuorinen’s Fourth Piano Concerto in Boston in 2005, they repeated it immediately at Carnegie Hall and some time later at Tanglewood.

“It sat for three or four months, and then in Tanglewood we rerehearsed it,” Mr. Levine said by telephone. “And we all felt that it was in another place. So much more of it was available, accessible. This is what happens if you get that chance. The piece, which might at first hearing have seemed to go by so quickly or so slowly or with this or that striking effect, when you really have a chance to hear it some more, already it starts to be a different thing.”

Other works by Mr. Wuorinen have figured heavily in Mr. Levine’s programming during recent seasons. “If I get excited by the music of a given composer, I need to know all of it,” Mr. Levine said. That holistic approach prompted his earlier immersions in the works of Berg, Mahler and Ives.

“If I was very excited by the first piece, then I wanted to see what the range and spectrum was in the rest of the pieces,” Mr. Levine said. “And also I figured that if I knew what the whole picture was, it would give me more insight into properly interpreting one work.”

Mr. Levine is certainly not Mr. Wuorinen’s sole champion. In April the Miller Theater at Columbia University will offer the premiere of “Spin 5,” a work it commissioned for the violinist Jennifer Koh. Now in the planning stages are works for the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, the pianist Anne-Marie McDermott, the Brentano String Quartet with the pianist Peter Serkin, and the New York New Music Ensemble.

Even so Mr. Levine is precisely the kind of artistic opinion leader whose prominence might persuade organizations and audiences alike to reconsider composers whose worth has been widely questioned in recent decades: not only Mr. Wuorinen but also Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter and even the father of them all, Arnold Schoenberg. Such conversions do not occur overnight. Mr. Levine has been working patiently and persistently over several seasons, his faith seemingly unshakable. “Charles writes a quantity of music that is absolutely astonishing, which is only possible because of his extraordinary gift and talent,” Mr. Levine said. “I’ve never seen anyone whose result is more enthusiastic and beautiful, but I think an audience that wants to get that on one hearing is going to have a difficult time. I try to tell them that what they need to do is, don’t have a fight with the piece on the first hearing. Just relax and listen. If you think there’s nothing there for you, O.K. But if you find something that makes you curious or engaged, then work out a way to hear the piece again as soon as possible, and see whether it starts to take hold.”

It helps that a steady stream of Mr. Wuorinen’s music has appeared on CD lately. Definitive recordings of his chamber music, recorded in the 1990s by the Group for Contemporary Music and originally issued by Koch International Classics, have been reissued recently on Naxos, a budget label with global distribution. During the same weekend that the Met Orchestra gave the premiere of “Theologoumenon” Mr. Wuorinen supervised a new recording of songs and chamber works that will be issued on Naxos.

Recordings of large-scale pieces like the ones Mr. Levine has championed have been harder to come by. But there is cause for hope.

“We have media agreements in Boston which will allow us to do this properly,” Mr. Levine said. “By ‘properly,’ I mean not that great rarity when we could put a symphony orchestra in the studio. But we can keep improving our live performances and the way they’re recorded, and make available in all kinds of ways recordings of live things.”

Mr. Levine suggests that the interest and enthusiasm expressed in letters to the orchestra from audience members justify his efforts on behalf of Mr. Wuorinen and his ilk.

“In Boston it works very well, because the public is so enthusiastic and so supportive of the orchestra and generally so knowledgeable,” he said. “Even though you always get a handful of letters from people who don’t like X or Y, you get four letters from people who either love it or respect it or are glad the orchestra had a chance to do it for them. I think Charles is not going to be subject to what’s fashionable. In the long run, as people hear it and play it, some of those pieces will stay there and lead the way to others.”

Mr. Levine may be an anomaly among veteran performers, but Mr. Wuorinen takes heart in what he sees as a steady stream of young musicians who are following his lead.

“I’ve been active in this profession for more than 50 years, so I’ve seen a lot of changes,” he said. “But that’s not one of them. As far as I can see, there are the same number of players with the same level of enthusiasm and commitment when they are young. And it isn’t the development department, it isn’t the marketing department and it isn’t the management that determine what happens to music. It’s the composers and the performers. If the performers stop caring about real music, then it’s over. But I don’t see any sign of that.”
707 2007-01-28 This development is not surprising. For much of the 20th century, China, India and Russia did not participate in the global economic system. As they modernize and build consumer-driven markets, they will grow more rapidly than established economies. The same dynamic led to a convergence of economic performance between Japan and Europe, on the one hand, and the United States on the other, in the decades after World War II.

Economists note that the United States continues to play an anchoring, even dominant, role in global financial services, thanks to its deep markets and strong banking systems. In this sphere, the United States is losing out more to European capitals than to Shanghai — and for reasons that have less to do with regulation and more to do with geography and geopolitics.

The euro zone has expanded in recent years to include more countries, thus increasing the appeal of the currency. “The share of global financial assets denominated in dollars is declining, and that’s in large part because of the rise and growth of the euro,” said Catherine L. Mann, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.

Meanwhile, the capital that the United States exports to China, Russia, India and the Persian Gulf is increasingly being used to develop local financial markets. “It’s not entirely surprising that a certain share of financial activity is migrating to foreign geographical locations where savings growth is taking place,” Mr. Setser said.

Add it up, and the United States, while still the world’s largest single economic power, is clearly no longer the sole superpower. From 2002 to 2005, the United States accounted for 35 to 40 percent of the world’s economic growth, according to Goldman Sachs. But in the second half of last year, Mr. O’Neill estimated, the BRICs’ contribution to global growth was slightly greater than that of the United States for the first time. In 2007, he projects, the United States will account for just 20 percent of global growth, compared with about 30 percent for the BRICs.

Despite such trends, Diana Farrell, director of the McKinsey Global Institute, believes that the United States “will maintain its share of growth over the next two decades.” She points to a McKinsey survey of global executives in which 27 percent said the United States would account for the most growth in company revenue over the next five years, compared with 25 percent who chose China. Ms. Farrell says she believes that the continued growth of China, India and the rest of Asia will come at the expense of slowly growing, aging Japan and Europe.

Ultimately, the decline of economic pre-eminence may be more damaging psychologically than economically. Ms. Mann notes that many people gauge their well-being not simply as a function of how much their income grows, but how much it grows relative to that of their neighbors. “By virtue of the world becoming richer, in part because of our engagement in international trade, we are getting richer, but many of the poor are getting richer, too,” she said. “Psychologically, a lot of people are going to view that narrowing gap as a negative.”

More broadly, the fact that economies that were closed to outside investment a generation ago are now creating systems of market capitalism should be seen as a victory for the United States, not a defeat. “Many of the countries that are doing well are mimicking the best of what America has stood for — globalization and the export of the American capital markets culture,” said Mr. O’Neill at Goldman Sachs. “There’s nothing that New York and U.S. policies can do about it unless they want to roll back globalization.”
708 2007-01-28 Mrs. Clinton cannot rewrite her own history on Iraq to match Mr. Obama’s early opposition to the war, or Mr. Webb’s. She was not prescient enough to see, as Mr. Webb wrote in The Washington Post back in September 2002, that “unilateral wars designed to bring about regime change and a long-term occupation should be undertaken only when a nation’s existence is clearly at stake.” But she’s hardly alone in this failing, and the point now is not that she mimic John Edwards with a prostrate apology for her vote to authorize the war. (“You don’t get do-overs in life or in politics,” she has said.) What matters to the country is what happens next. What matters is the leadership that will take us out of the fiasco.

Mr. Webb made his own proposals for ending the war, some of them anticipating those of the Iraq Study Group, while running against a popular incumbent in a reddish state. Mrs. Clinton, running for re-election in a safe seat in blue New York, settled for ratcheting up her old complaints about the war’s execution and for endorsing other senators’ calls for vaguely defined “phased redeployments.” Even now, after the Nov. 7 results confirmed that two-thirds of voters nationwide want out, she struggles to parse formulations about Iraq.

This is how she explains her vote to authorize the war: “I would never have expected any president, if we knew then what we know now, to come to ask for a vote. There would not have been a vote, and I certainly would not have voted for it.” John Kerry could not have said it worse himself. No wonder last weekend’s “Saturday Night Live” gave us a “Hillary” who said, “Knowing what we know now, that you could vote against the war and still be elected president, I would never have pretended to support it.”

Compounding this problem for Mrs. Clinton is that the theatrics of her fledgling campaign are already echoing the content: they are so overscripted and focus-group bland that they underline rather than combat the perennial criticism that she is a cautious triangulator too willing to trim convictions for political gain. Last week she conducted three online Web chats that she billed as opportunities for voters to see her “in an unfiltered way.” Surely she was kidding. Everything was filtered, from the phony living-room set to the appearance of a “campaign blogger” who wasn’t blogging to the softball questions and canned responses. Even the rare query touching on a nominally controversial topic, gay civil rights, avoided any mention of the word marriage, let alone Bill Clinton’s enactment of the federal Defense of Marriage Act.

When a 14-year-old boy from Armonk, N.Y., asked Mrs. Clinton what made her “so inspirational,” it was a telltale flashback to those well-rehearsed “town-hall meetings” Mr. Bush billed as unfiltered exchanges with voters during the 2004 campaign. One of those “Ask President Bush” sessions yielded the memorable question, “Mr. President, as a child, how can I help you get votes?”

After six years of “Ask President Bush,” “Mission Accomplished” and stage sets plastered with “Plan for Victory,” Americans hunger for a presidency with some authenticity. Patently synthetic play-acting and carefully manicured sound bites like Mrs. Clinton’s look out of touch. (Mr. Obama’s bare-bones Webcast and Web site shrewdly play Google to Mrs. Clinton’s AOL.) Besides, the belief that an image can be tightly controlled in the viral media era is pure fantasy. Just ask the former Virginia senator, Mr. Allen, whose past prowess as a disciplined, image-conscious politician proved worthless once the Webb campaign posted on YouTube a grainy but authentic video capturing him in an embarrassing off-script public moment.

The image that Mrs. Clinton wants to sell is summed up by her frequent invocation of the word middle, as in “I grew up in a middle-class family in the middle of America.” She’s not left or right, you see, but exactly in the center where everyone feels safe. But as the fierce war critic Chuck Hagel, the Republican senator from Nebraska, argues in a must-read interview at gq.com, the war is “starting to redefine the political landscape” and scramble the old party labels. Like Mrs. Clinton, the middle-American Mr. Hagel voted to authorize the Iraq war, but that has not impeded his leadership in questioning it ever since.

The issue raised by the tragedy of Iraq is not who’s on the left or the right, but who is in front and who is behind. Mrs. Clinton has always been a follower of public opinion on the war, not a leader. Now events are outrunning her. Support for the war both in the polls and among Republicans in Congress is plummeting faster than she can recalibrate her rhetoric; unreliable Iraqi troops are already proving no-shows in the new Iraqi-American “joint patrols” of Baghdad; the Congressional showdown over fresh appropriations for Iraq is just weeks away.

This, in other words, is a moment of crisis in our history and there will be no do-overs. Should Mrs. Clinton actually seek unfiltered exposure to voters, she will learn that they are anxiously waiting to see just who in Washington is brave enough to act.
709 2007-01-28 With new rules now in effect requiring that all United States residents carry a passport when they return from the Caribbean, Mexico or Canada, tourism officials in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are busily reminding American travelers that they can still visit those islands without a passport.

“It is not that we don’t want people to apply for a passport,” said Nelly Cruz Rodriguez, public relations director for the Puerto Rico Tourism Company, which promotes tourism for the Puerto Rican government. “But you don’t have to wait for your passport to arrive to come here,” she said, adding that the new online booking engine www.gotopuertorico.com is aimed at the roughly 75 percent of United States citizens who don’t have passports.

Officials are also starting a travel promotion called “Puerto Rico Now!” in conjunction with Liberty Travel. Those who book a trip to Puerto Rico between Feb. 8 and 19 for travel through Sept. 15 receive a $300 air-fare credit for each room at more than 30 participating hotels in Puerto Rico (www.libertytravel.com). At some hotels, customers will receive a fourth night free.

The rules have been a boon. “We are getting 30 calls a day from people wondering if they need a passport to come here,” said Steve Bornn, director of marketing for the Virgin Islands Department of Tourism.

Anticipating a boom in passport-free business, Northwest Airlines recently started nonstop Saturday service from Detroit to St. Thomas, and Delta is introducing nonstop service from Kennedy Airport to St. Thomas on March 3.
710 2007-01-28 A wide swath of all-inclusive resorts and relatively low-cost flights makes this country, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti, the best option for the bargain-seeker.

JetBlue began flying from Kennedy Airport to Santiago in 2004 bringing some low-priced fares with it. Current one-way fares range from $109 to $399 not including taxes and fees. But there are many flight options. American and Continental both fly here. Delta has flights from Kennedy Airport to Punta Cana, Santo Domingo and Santiago. It also has flights from Atlanta to Puerto Plata, Santo Domingo and Punta Cana.

Most all-inclusive resorts are located in Punta Cana on the eastern tip of the island. Package deals are prevalent. Through Feb. 16, Club Med Punta Cana is offering a seven-night, all-inclusive vacation starting at $1,015 a person, down from the regular $1,400 a person, for travel through October. (A comparable vacation at the Club Med Columbus Isle in the Bahamas starts at $1,225 a person, down from the regular or $1,715 a person.) Apple Vacations is offering seven-night all-inclusive trips to the Bavaro Princess All Suites Resort, Spa & Casino with roundtrip flights to Punta Cana from several cities including Chicago, Detroit and Baltimore for under $1,000 per person for travel in April and March.

Share your own frugal suggestions for what to do in Punta Cana.

WHERE TO STAY Allegro Playa Dorada, Puerto Plata. Rates from $67 per person, a night based on double occupancy, Feb. 1 to April 7, (800-858-2258, www.occidentalhotels.com). Doubles start at $190 a night in season at Sofitel Nicolas de Ovando, a luxury hotel in the heart of the colonial city of Santo Domingo, (800-763-4835, www.sofitel.com).

Share your own suggestions for where to stay in Santo Domingo.
711 2007-01-28 ANIMAL NY3597-07 blinks her big black eyes while lounging on her belly on a dry ledge in a lidless tank. Her fuzzy, bluish-gray fur is the distinct coat of a hooded seal less than a year old, and she appears soft enough to cuddle. But this is not ...
712 2007-01-28 The Knicks are trying to figure out how to harness the mysterious forces that led Jamal Crawford to make 16 straight shots on his way to scoring 52 points Friday night in a 116-96 victory against the Miami Heat.     Coach Isiah Thomas said at prac...
713 2007-01-28 McCARTHY--Thomas H., III, DSA -Kane Lodge No. 454 F. & A. M. mourns with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed brother on January 20. He was a member of the Lodge for 26 years and recipient of the Dedicated Service Award in 1996. He served on t...
714 2007-01-28 SCHEUER--Emily Malino. Hebrew Union College -Jewish Institute of Religion mourns the death of Emily Malino Scheuer, beloved mother of our dear Elizabeth Scheuer and sister-in-law of our esteemed Board member, Richard Scheuer. The Scheuer family, t...
715 2007-01-28 With new rules now in effect requiring that all United States residents carry a passport when they return from the Caribbean, Mexico or Canada, tourism officials in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands (including St. John, left) are bu...
716 2007-01-28 James Traub (Jan. 14) makes some good points in his article, but he reveals an old, and bad, Jewish trait: the fear of being too demonstrative and loud as individuals. Hence his repeated emphasis on Abraham Foxman's gesticulating and habit of cryi...
717 2007-01-28 FOX--Regina Reiss, 94, of Lakewood, NJ and West Palm Beach, FL, died January 14 in West Palm and interred January 16 in Lakewood. Born in Tarnapol, Ukraine, she came to Brooklyn, in 1937, moved to Lakewood in 1953 and retired to Florida. Predeceas...
718 2007-01-28 ANIMAL NY3597-07 blinks her big black eyes while lounging on her belly on a dry ledge in a lidless tank. Her fuzzy, bluish-gray fur is the distinct coat of a hooded seal less than a year old, and she appears soft enough to cuddle. But this is not ...
719 2007-01-28 Nassau County has $100 million to spend on open space and environmental projects, and County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi is asking how to use it.     Earlier this month, Mr. Suozzi called for comments from the public, civic organizations, environme...
720 2007-01-28 ANIMAL NY3597-07 blinks her big black eyes while lounging on her belly on a dry ledge in a lidless tank. Her fuzzy, bluish-gray fur is the distinct coat of a hooded seal less than a year old, and she appears soft enough to cuddle. But this is not ...
721 2007-01-28 RENÉE MIZRAHI suspects that the first real estate agent she worked with deliberately didn't tell her that a building was only 49 percent owner-occupied.     Her bank subsequently refused to give her a mortgage, and she lost the apartment....
722 2007-01-29 On Saturday, on my way into the Raf Simons show at Bercy, the big sports stadium, I decided to kill a few moments at a hockey game that was going on next door. It was strange that two completely different male experiences were taking place just a ...
723 2007-01-29 Shares of the drug giant Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has been the subject of takeover speculation for months, soared to near a three-year high Monday after a French financial publication said it might be close to merging with Sanofi-Aventis. The r...
724 2007-01-29 Earlier this month, DealBook noted that Richard C. Breeden, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was already "making waves" during his short tenure as a hedge-fund manager. On Monday, footnoted.org's Michele Leder continu...
725 2007-01-29 A historian puts the 9/11 attacks, and the United States's enemies, into perspective....
726 2007-01-29 Everyone, it seems, is hopping on the buyout bandwagon these days. Even the big public companies once thought untouchable are now wistfully talking about the success of firms like the Blackstone Group, says Andrew Ross Sorkin in his DealBook colum...
727 2007-01-29 A Credit Suisse private-banking executive said his firm is interested in buying a trust bank in the United States, Financial News reported. The investment bank could use funds from the recent sale of its insurance unit, Winterthur. Go to Article f...
728 2007-01-29 Levi Strauss is becoming a leader in a new arena: lawsuits. The company, once the undisputed king of denim and now a case study in missed opportunities, has emerged as the most litigious in the apparel industry when it comes to trademark infringem...
729 2007-01-29 Monotype Imaging Holdings, a maker of text-imaging software, filed with regulators Friday for an initial public offering of as much as $135 million in stock. Monotype, a former unit of Agfa, is backed by a private equity firm, TA Associates. Go to...
730 2007-01-29 As SunPower announced explosive growth in the fourth quarter Thursday, the solar-power company also disclosed that a senior-level employee is under federal scrutiny for actions he took while working for a former employer. Peter Aschenbrenner, curr...
731 2007-01-29 Compared with buttoned-down stock jockeys at Fidelity or T. Rowe Price, hedge fund managers may be the James Bonds of the financial world. They have a reputation for being secretive risk takers who use an array of specialized financial weaponry li...
732 2007-01-29 For the first time since the Internet bubble burst at the start of this decade, technology stocks really matter – even to investors who are wary of them. Tech has turned in the worst performance of any group of stocks over the past five years, b...
733 2007-01-29 “I thought it was kind of odd,” Mr. Fleischer said, describing his reaction to what he said was Mr. Libby’s disclosure. He said the revelation about Mr. Wilson’s wife left him with the impression that there was “nepotism at the C.I.A.”

Unless defense lawyers can undermine Mr. Fleischer’s credibility, the testimony about the July 7 lunch could prove very damaging to Mr. Libby, who told a grand jury that he believed he first learned about Ms. Wilson in a conversation with Tim Russert of NBC on Thursday, July 10, 2003, and that he had been taken aback by Mr. Russert’s information.

Mr. Libby is on trial in Federal District Court on five felony counts charging that he lied to investigators and to the grand jury and tried to obstruct an investigation into who leaked the name of Ms. Wilson. She was first unmasked in a newspaper column by Robert Novak on July 14, 2003, days after her husband wrote in The New York Times that he believed the Bush administration had distorted intelligence to build a case for invading Iraq.

Ms. Wilson’s husband had gone to Africa to investigate reports that the Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was trying to buy uranium from Niger for his nuclear weapons program.

No one has ever been charged for leaking the name of Ms. Wilson and disclosing her C.I.A. status. The chief prosecutor, Patrick Fitzgerald, has accused Mr. Libby of making up his accounts of learning about Ms. Wilson from reporters.

The team of defense lawyers, headed by Theodore V. Wells Jr., is portraying their client as a 16-hour-a-day public official shouldering the responsibilities of national security, and therefore far too busy to recall details about who told him what, and what he said to whom, months after the fact. The defense has also asserted that Mr. Libby is being made a scapegoat to protect Karl Rove, who has acknowledged having been a source for Mr. Novak.

Mr. Fleischer said he was not a close friend of Mr. Libby, but that he liked him. The July 7 occasion, shortly after Mr. Fleischer had made plans to leave the White House, was the first time he had dined with Mr. Libby, Mr. Fleischer said.

The former White House spokesman appeared before the grand jury three times, in January, February and September, 2004. He took the stand around noon today and was not asked in detail in the early going about the circumstances under which he acquired immunity.

The prosecutor, Peter Zeidenberg, anticipating a defense attempt to undermine Mr. Fleischer’s credibility because of the immunity deal, elicited from Mr. Fleischer a statement that “the immunity provides no protection for perjury.”

Mr. Fleischer recalled the turmoil that engulfed the White House after it was forced to back off President Bush’s assertion, in his January 2003 State of the Union address, that the British government had found clear evidence that Iraq had tried to acquire uranium in Africa.

Mr. Fleischer said he sensed that “the ground was shifting.”

“The worst place to stand when you are the press secretary is where the ground is shifting,” said Mr. Fleischer, who recalled that at one news briefing, “I basically punted.”

Judge Reggie B. Walton said at the start of today’s session that one juror had been removed. He did not state why. “Everybody else has to stay healthy,” Judge Walton said. When the trial began, there were four alternates as well as the 12 jurors.
734 2007-01-29 The buses served as rolling classrooms, leaving Nashville early Saturday for Montgomery and arriving in Birmingham on Saturday evening. The students, along with faculty members, historians and others, returned to Nashville on Sunday.

Along the route, speakers rotated among buses to describe their experiences and answer questions. Several came from the “Nashville movement” of brash activists, many affiliated with the same colleges and universities as the students.

Among them were Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, who was beaten and jailed on the rides; John Seigenthaler, an aide to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy during the crisis; James Lawson and C. T. Vivian, ministers who advised many of the students; and Diane Nash, who in the early 1960s led sit-in movements to desegregate lunch counters in Nashville and became one of the founders of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.

“Maybe, just maybe,” Mr. Lewis said, “this trip will help renew and inspire and encourage people to take a page from the past and apply it to your own life.”

Though the Supreme Court had ruled that Jim Crow segregation in interstate travel was unconstitutional, the Justice Department had little appetite for enforcement. In 1947, an interracial “Journey of Reconciliation” in the upper South had done little to break travel segregation, Mr. Arsenault wrote.

In 1961, the Congress of Racial Equality decided to challenge travel segregation again with nonviolent civil disobedience. When one group of interracial passengers reached Anniston, Ala., a Ku Klux Klan-organized mob firebombed the bus and beat the passengers. Passengers on another bus were badly beaten when they reached Birmingham.

Attorney General Kennedy intervened. The riders, some badly hurt, wanted to press on, but the trip was scuttled and the riders flew instead to New Orleans.

Nashville activists pledged to continue. Mr. Seigenthaler pleaded with the students, but Ms. Nash said riders had signed their wills and were prepared to die if necessary.

In Montgomery, a mob met the new wave of riders, severely beating Mr. Lewis and another rider, Jim Zwerg. In the melee, Mr. Seigenthaler was clubbed and left unconscious.

The crisis mounted with riders’ imprisonment in Mississippi. Eventually, more than 400 riders would board segregated buses and trains, taxing courts throughout the South. Then, in September, the Interstate Commerce Commission prohibited all discrimination in interstate busing.

Sherrae M. Hayes, a 20-year-old junior at Tennessee State, said the trip gave the lesson new meaning. “You can definitely learn it from a textbook,” Ms. Hayes said, “but I don’t think it means half as much, or a quarter as much, as being there.”

Outside Montgomery’s old Trailways station on Saturday, riders craned to see the building’s facade. A few minutes later, as rain pattered on the roof of the bus, Mr. Zwerg, 67, described the eerie quiet before the crowd set upon him 46 years ago. “I knew whether I lived or died,” he said, “it was going to be all right.”
735 2007-01-29 The MoMA symposium was sold out weeks in advance. Ms. Lippard and the art historian Linda Nochlin appeared, like tutelary deities, at the beginning and end respectively; in between came panels with about 20 speakers. The audience was made up almost entirely of women, among them many veterans of the women’s art movement of the 1970s and a healthy sprinkling of younger students, artists and scholars. It was clear that people were hungry to hear about and think about feminist art, whatever that once was, is now or might be.

What it once was was relatively easy to grasp. Ms. Lippard spun out an impressionistic account of its complex history, as projected images of art by women streamed across the screen behind her, telling an amazing story of their own. She concluded by saying that the big contribution of feminist art “was to not make a contribution to Modernism.” It rejected Modernism’s exclusionary values and authoritarian certainties for an art of openness, ambiguity, reciprocity and what another speaker, Griselda Pollock, called “ethical hospitality,” features now identified with Postmodernism.

But feminism was never as embracing and accessible as it wanted to be. Early on, some feminists had a problem with the “lavender menace” of lesbianism. The racial divide within feminism has never been resolved and still isn’t, even as feminism casts itself more and more on a globalist model.

The MoMA audience was almost entirely white. Only one panelist, the young Kenyan-born artist Wangechi Mutu, was black. And the renowned critic Geeta Kapur from Delhi had to represent, by default, all of Asia. “I feel like I’m gate-crashing a reunion,” Ms. Mutu joked as she began to speak, and she wasn’t wrong.

At the same time one of feminism’s great strengths has been a capacity for self-criticism and self-correction. Yet atmospherically the symposium was a very MoMA event, polished, well executed, well mannered, even cozy. A good half of the talks came across as more soothing than agitating, suitable for any occasion rather than tailored to one onto which, I sensed, intense personal, political and historical hopes had been pinned.

Still, there was some agitation, and it came with the first panel, “Activism/Race/Geopolitics,” in a performance by the New York artist Coco Fusco. Ms. Fusco strode to the podium in combat fatigues and, like a major instructing her troops, began lecturing on the creative ways in which women could use sex as a torture tactic on terrorist suspects, specifically on Islamic prisoners.

The performance was scarifyingly funny as a send-up of feminism’s much-maligned sexual “essentialism.” But its obvious references to Abu Ghraib, where women were victimizers, was telling.

In the context of a mild-mannered symposium and proposed visions of a “feminist future” that saw collegial tolerance and generosity as solutions to a harsh world, Ms. Fusco made the point that, at least in the present, women are every bit as responsible for that harshness — for what goes on in Iraq for example — as anyone.

Ms. Kapur’s talk was also topical, but within the framework of India. It is often said that the activist art found in early Western feminism and now adopted by artists in India, Africa and elsewhere has lost its pertinence in its place of origin. Yet in presenting work by two Indian artists, Rummana Hussain (1952-1999) and Navjot Altaf (born in 1949), Ms. Kapur made it clear that they have at least as much to teach to the so-called West as the other way around.

Ms. Hussain, a religious secularist, used images from her Muslim background as a critical response to sectarian violence; Ms. Altaf (known as Navjot), though based in Mumbai, produces art collaboratively with tribal women who live difficult lives in rural India.

Collaborative or collective work of the kind Navjot does has grown in popularity in the United States and Europe in the past few years. And several of the symposium’s panelists — Ms. Lippard, the Guerrilla Girls, Carrie Lambert-Beatty, Catherine de Zegher — referred to it as a potential way for feminist art to avoid being devoured and devitalized by an omnivorous art market.

It was Ms. Fusco again who brought utopian dreams to earth. While sympathetic to the idea of collective work as an alternative to the salable lone-genius model, she suggested that the merchandising of art is at present so encompassing, and the art industry so fundamentally corrupted by it, that even collectives tend to end up adhering to a corporate model.

The power of the market, which pushes a few careers and throws the rest out — the very story of feminist art’s neglect — was the invisible subtext to the entire symposium. It was barely addressed, however, nor was the reality that the canonization of feminist art by museums would probably suppress everything that had made the art radical. Certainly no solutions for either problem was advanced, except one, incidentally, by Connie Butler, MoMa’s drawings curator, who is also the curator of the Los Angeles show.

In her panel talk she said that when she was agonizing over what choices of work to make for the “Wack!” exhibition, the art historian Moira Roth suggested, brilliantly, that she just eliminate objects altogether. Instead, Ms. Roth said, why not invite all the artists who made them to come the museum for a group-consciousness-raising session, film the session, and then make the film the show?

Somewhat unexpectedly, signs of a raised consciousness were evident among young people in the MoMA audience, the kind of people we are told either have no knowledge of feminism or outright reject it. In the question-and-answer sessions after each panel, the most passionate, probing and agitating questions and statements came from young women who identified themselves as students or artists.

When they spoke; when Richard Meyer, a gay art historian, spoke about queer feminism; and when Ms. Mutu ended her presentation by simply reading aloud a long list of curators, scholars and artists — all of them women, all of them black — who, could and should have been at the MoMA symposium, I had a sense that a feminist future was, if not secure, at least under vigilant consideration.
736 2007-01-29 In an effort to survive industrywide financial straits, many newspapers have made cuts both large and small, reducing newsroom staff, paper sizes and even the daily printed stock listings that are readily available online. But after torrents of reader complaints, two major papers said last week that they would restore some of those listings.

The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal both said last week that they would bring back some of the stock market tables to their papers. They and several other dailies, including The New York Times, have recently trimmed those listings in their financial sections to reduce newsprint costs.

The cuts had seemed to be an easy, low-impact way to save money, as free, regularly updated stock indexes are available on both papers’ Web sites. But that did not satisfy readers accustomed to checking their stock prices in the morning papers.

“We always had in mind that we would see what the reaction was,” said Sandra Sugawara, The Post’s assistant managing editor for financial news. When the paper announced in November that it was reducing its stock listings, it urged readers to write or e-mail if their stocks or mutual funds had been cut — and promised to consider restoring those listings. The Post, which announced the latest change on Tuesday, had already restored some of its stocks and mutual funds, one week after its initial cuts in November.

Ms. Sugawara said that while many of The Post’s readers simply went online, a large and vocal contingent of longtime subscribers “had developed a habit of waking up and checking their stocks” in the morning paper.

The Post’s restoring of some stock listings would not affect its cost-cutting goals. According to Ms. Sugawara, the newly restored listings will make up only another quarter of a page. “The goal was always to save two pages, and that’s what we did,” she said.
737 2007-01-29 The traveling sideshow of “Pagliacci” added a strongman act to its clowns, acrobats and derailed theatrical entertainments on Friday night. Salvatore Licitra was scheduled to sing Leoncavallo’s Canio at the Metropolitan Opera, while Frank Porretta would be Mascagni’s Turiddu in “Cavalleria Rusticana.” On Thursday Mr. Porretta reported in sick. Rather than let a cover singer be called for, Mr. Licitra said he would sing both operas.

Given the flat-out vocal and emotional muscle each part requires, not to mention the Met’s vast acoustical space needing to be filled, pitching tenorial woo at both ends of a doubleheader is not unheard of, but it is to be remarked on when it happens. Going 9 innings is the normal aim, 18 a rarity these days.

Mr. Licitra’s only uneasy moments came oddly at the beginning, during his curtain-raising offstage aria in “Cavalleria.” He has a clear sound and a musical sense that is mostly enlightened if betrayed occasionally by small crudenesses of attack. He has developed the top of his voice carefully, but he can be wary of it, wisely turning down the flame when trouble threatens. On the other hand, when either opera needed full commitment, nothing was withheld. Tough evenings like this require management of resources.

With only a day to orient himself, Mr. Licitra seemed comfortable on Franco Zeffirelli’s venerable set for “Cavalleria.” In the pre-duel spat with Alfio (Mark Delavan) his teeth found his opponent’s ear with perfect aim. The shutting of church doors in Santuzza’s face also had a nice theatrical flourish to it. Mr. Licitra runs a lot in both operas, which helps keep things moving.

Marco Armiliato conducted, as he did earlier in the season. The appealing Dolora Zajick was a blast furnace of a Santuzza; with her and Mr. Licitra on either side, Mr. Delavan sounded a little underpowered.

In “Pagliacci” I very much admired the vocal completeness of Krassimira’s Stoyanova’s Nedda. Mr. Licitra actually gathered strength as his burdens grew. With stamina like this, can Tristan be far behind? I hope not.
738 2007-01-29 NIELSEN ADDS STUDENT VIEWERS -- Ratings of shows like ''America's Next Top Model'' and ''Family Guy'' are expected to surge this week as Nielsen Media Research, a unit of the Nielsen Company, includes in its TV ratings, for the first time, the vie...
739 2007-01-30 Another analyst is advising caution to shareholders of Clear Channel Communications as the radio giant continues to seek support for a proposed $18.7 billion buyout. Jonathan Jacoby of Banc of America Securities on Tuesday cut his rating on Clear ...
740 2007-01-30 The Los Angeles Times editorial page and Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne agree that the increasing front-loading of the presidential campaign calendar is a bad thing, and that California ought to move up its primary anyway. The L.A. Times ev...
741 2007-01-30 The little yellow van is rolling, but will it take "Little Miss" all the way?...
742 2007-01-30 Henry Blodget has some harsh words for James Cramer, the popular market pundit who hosts CNBC's "Mad Money" show. Writing in a column for Slate, Mr. Blodget, the former Internet analyst, calls Mr. Cramer "perhaps the worst thing to happen to the f...
743 2007-01-30 A former Coca-Cola aide said at her federal trial on Monday that, although she routinely took copies of company documents and e-mails home, she did not conspire to steal and sell trade secrets about the beverage company to its chief rival. "No. We...
744 2007-01-30 Ever since Bristol-Myers Squibb named an interim chief executive last fall, the market has been primed for a takeover of the drug company. So on Monday, all it took was one rumor printed as fact to incite a buying frenzy. A report in the French we...
745 2007-01-30 A hedge fund that owns 5 percent of Northwest Airlines is calling for the bankrupt carrier to meet with shareholders to develop a reorganization plan that returns their investment. "To start, the company must agree to give its stockholders a voice...
746 2007-01-30 Petr Prucha had two goals and an assist last night and his linemates, Matt Cullen and Jed Ortmeyer, also had 3 points in the Rangers’ 6-1 victory against the Bruins in Boston.

Brendan Shanahan scored his team-leading 25th goal on a penalty shot in the third period for the Rangers, who have won two road games in a row since the All-Star Game break.

The Rangers have defeated Boston six consecutive times, including twice this month.

“Maybe there’s a desperation that players realize now the situation, that we’re in coming out of the break and just how important every game is,” Shanahan said of the Rangers, who entered the night in ninth place in the Eastern Conference.

Only four penalties were called against the Rangers, who scored two short-handed goals — one by Cullen and one when Shanahan beat Hannu Toivonen with a backhander on the penalty shot.

Shanahan’s goal was his third in 21 games, and it gave the Rangers a 5-1 lead 6 minutes 26 seconds into the third period. He then assisted on a power-play goal by Michael Nylander 1:13 later.
747 2007-01-30 The Assembly debated into the evening before voting 71-8 to approve the 20 percent credit and the 4 percent limit on local property tax increases.

In a session that went more than eight hours, the Assembly also approved a number of changes in the laws governing pensions and pension forfeiture that had been approved in the Senate last week. In the end the measures passed easily.

Final passage was given as well to a bill that would create a commission to study consolidation of municipalities and school districts in an effort to end wasteful duplication. It was approved 70 to 8 with one abstention.

More grudgingly, the Assembly gave final approval, 47 to 30, to a measure creating the office of an appointed comptroller.

All of the measures were part of what Governor Corzine said was his multipronged attack on property taxes, which have been rising a significant 7 percent a year.

The Senate president, Richard J. Codey, who was following the Assembly debate, said the state’s effectiveness in reining in property taxes would depend on how successful Governor Corzine is in trimming pension and health care benefits for state employees during contract negotiations — something he specifically asked lawmakers to leave to him.

In the end, Mr. Codey said, what really matters to voters is how soon they will get the relief on their property taxes. The 20 percent credit would replace the state’s homestead rebate program with a richer plan. The credit would be financed from state sales tax revenue and would send about $2.2 billion back to 95 percent of the state’s 1.9 million property-tax payers, and about one million of its renters.

“When I go out and talk to voters, that’s what they tell me matters most,” Mr. Codey said.

In the area of pension reform, the biggest items are those affecting state employees. After the legislators recommended several changes at Mr. Corzine’s urging — like raising the retirement age and reining in pensions for new employees — he said unexpectedly in early December that he would try to win givebacks and changes through collective bargaining.

The State Senate did establish a 401(k)-type pension for future elected officials that would scrap the current defined benefit program and would limit the way lawyers, architects and other professionals can combine part-time jobs with multiple municipalities to enhance their pensions.

The Senate also passed a measure stripping officials convicted of corruption of the portion of their pension associated with the job in which the misfeasance occurred. The Assembly approved all three matters.

Although both chambers are controlled by the Democrats, the measures fell short of what even some Democratic lawmakers wanted. Those legislators had wanted pension benefits denied to officials convicted of corruption, and more limits on municipal workers who increase their pensions with multiple jobs.

“It is disingenuous to say that this is reform,” said State Senator Nicholas P. Scutari, a Linden Democrat who was chairman of a special legislative commission that looked into pension reform last summer. “The reform saves no money, and to think that the governor can negotiate with the unions what the Legislature had a hard time agreeing on is a mistake.”

In the area of consolidation of school districts and municipal services, lawmakers said they received mixed signals from communities. The result in the Senate was a measure that would leave the decision on shrinking the number of local governments up to local voters.

“These people want a Mercedes-Benz, but they only have Oldsmobile money,” said State Senator Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford. “And you know Oldsmobile went out of business.”
748 2007-01-30 Travelers looking for an easier path to western Ireland will soon have a new option, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday. Starting on May 27, Flyglobespan, a low-cost carrier based in Scotland, will run three weekly direct flights between Kennedy International Airport and Ireland West Airport Knock in County Mayo for as little as $259 each way, including tax. The new route, approved by the federal government after Mr. Bloomberg’s urging, is intended to boost Irish tourism to New York.
749 2007-01-30 A federal magistrate denied bail to a 71-year-old reputed member of the Ku Klux Klan charged in the 1964 killings of two black men. The magistrate, Linda R. Anderson, said the man, James F. Seale, might flee if released on bail because he had no job or property, was a pilot and lived in a motor home. Prosecutors say the two black men, Charles E. Moore and Henry H. Dee, both 19, were seized and beaten by Klansmen and then thrown into the Mississippi River to drown. Mr. Seale’s trial was tentatively set for April 2.
750 2007-01-30 A wealthy businessman joined the already crowded Democratic race for governor. The businessman, Bruce Lunsford, left, spent $8 million of his own money before dropping out of the last governor’s race days before the primary. Mr. Lunsford and six other Democrats hope to oust Gov. Ernie Fletcher, the first Republican elected governor in more than 30 years. Mr. Lunsford, who was commerce secretary under former Gov. John Y. Brown Jr., said he would spend “as much as it takes to get the governor’s chair back for the Democrats.”
751 2007-01-30 The run is particularly striking because China’s stock markets have historically been stagnant financial backwaters, marred by scandal, weak oversight and fundamental contradictions. Even as China’s economy has roared, the stock market has rarely inspired public confidence or great interest. China’s markets nearly disintegrated in 2005, and one 2003 poll found that 90 percent of investors had lost money.

Public confidence was so low then that half of those investors said they wanted to sell their holdings and abandon the market forever. False accounting was considered rampant, and huge state-owned companies were allowed to list without truly going private or submitting to real oversight by keeping great numbers of nontradable shares.

“You gave these murky companies a ton of money when they did their I.P.O.’s,” said Stephen Green, a senior economist with Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. “And then behold, a lot of money disappeared.”

No one is arguing that the Chinese markets are now fully reformed, but enough changes have occurred to inspire new confidence. Many state-owned companies, for example, have settled on formulas to begin cleaning up the problems over nontradable shares.

Meanwhile, many Chinese investors are leaving the bubbly national real estate market and moving money into stocks. Roughly 2.7 million new investment accounts were registered last year, more than triple the number from 2005.

One result is an almost goofy buying binge that many analysts expect to continue.

“We’ve gone from a historic low to a historic high in the space of a year,” said Mr. Green, who specializes in China’s equities markets. “Obviously, everyone is getting a bit scared about the scale of the ramp-up.”

Some analysts are already warning that the market may be overvalued. The possibility of a new downturn sinking millions of Chinese investors is a real concern for the ruling Communist Party, which prizes social stability and is preparing to install a new generation of leaders at a critical party meeting this fall. In the past, angry public protests have erupted over market malfeasance. In late December, Cheng Siwei, a vice chairman of the National People’s Congress, China’s party-controlled legislature, issued the warning against “blind optimism” amid a bull market.

For now, though, public excitement is outweighing anxiety. In Shanghai, one of the most popular local television programs is “Stock Market Today.” The Chinese news media reports that mutual fund managers, who have never made the sort of mind-boggling salaries enjoyed by their American peers, are now receiving bonuses as high as 5 million yuan, or about $643,000, a staggering sum in China.

Everyone seems to want a stock tip.

“When I go to the beauty salon, even the girls who give me a manicure are talking about stocks!” said Shirley Lei, a consultant in Shanghai who worries that inexperienced buyers could be cheated. “They ask me, ‘What should I invest in?’ They say they are doing research.”

Trading houses can seem like carnivals. One brokerage in Guangzhou had installed computers in the landing of a stairwell to handle the torrent of new clients. In Shenzhen, the main trading office of Guosen Securities had opened a second registration counter to handle the daily overflow of new customers. Yang Junming, a nattily dressed account manager, said about 70 percent of clients did not even come to the office but used company software to trade from home.

“At the moment, there are not many investment opportunities for people inside China,” Mr. Yang said, explaining the bull market and noting that young people make up a high percentage of new investors. “For a while, it was real estate. But the improvement of the market’s structure is now encouraging people to buy stocks.”

At GF Securities in Beijing, Zhang Jie, manager of client services, clicked his computer mouse to display different charts of jagged lines detailing market trends. On every screen, the lines shot upward. When the market was in the doldrums, Mr. Zhang said his branch registered about six new clients a week. Last month, he said, the number was roughly 120 new accounts a week.

Mr. Zhang’s job, meanwhile, has gotten much easier. He said he once spent his afternoons calling clients for chitchat that focused on anything but the sinking market. “I’d talk about horses, or we’d chat about golf or about tea,” he recalled. “I just wanted to keep them as customers.”

Mr. Zhang said he expected more ups and downs but also predicted that the Shanghai index would top 4,000 by year’s end.

Out in the lobby, Lu Chao, 24, wore a fashionable leather jacket and helped a friend register to trade. Mr. Lu is a day trader who shares a home computer with his mother, another day trader. He said his investments were up 170 percent since July 2005. He researches companies on the Internet and says he and his mother do not always agree on where to put their money. But they are both confident about the future.

“Of course, the market in China is not as regulated as in America or Britain,” Mr. Lu said. “The Chinese market is much younger, so you are going to have risk. But I think the government is trying to straighten things out so that the market will become stronger.”

His goal was simple. “I want to get rich,” he said.
752 2007-01-30 Robert F. Jones, a senior vice president at the Association of American Medical Colleges, which oversees the MCAT, generally viewed as the most stressful of the admissions exams, said the error on that test was “something we regret.” “No more than 800” test-takers of about 2,500 were affected, he said.

About 50,000 people take the test each year, some more than once.

Mr. Jones added that the error appeared to be “a test publishing problem,” but that he did not yet know how it had come about.

Last weekend was the first time the MCAT was administered only by computer rather than by paper and pencil. The medical college association announced in 2005 that it would move to an entirely computer-based format beginning in 2007, and that it would work with Thomson Prometric to administer the test at its computer testing centers.

Jodi Katz, a spokeswoman for Thomson Prometric, declined to comment on the error.

Mr. Jones, of the association, said he expected that students with the bad test would get their results within 30 days, like other students, because their scores could be extrapolated from the rest of their responses.

“It will not affect their scores,” he said.

But Mr. Sonshine said he thought the painful experience could affect how he had done, and his admission to medical school.

“We are going to get screwed a little bit,” said Mr. Sonshine, who was taking the test a second time because he was not satisfied with the score he received on one section of the exam when he took it last summer.

He said he spent three weeks of his Christmas vacation studying for the exam, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and took five computerized practice tests. When he got to the exam on Saturday, in New Jersey, he whizzed through the first section, on the physical sciences, he said. But his confidence evaporated as he began the second section, verbal reasoning.

Using a technique he had learned from a test coaching company, he looked for a passage to read that seemed easy, to gain momentum. Unfortunately, the one he chose was the one on robotic fish.

“I read through and took some notes,” he said. “Then I went to the questions. ‘The male warbler cries for the female warbler when...?’ I’m starting to freak out.”

When he saw that the next question was also about warblers, he said, he started scrolling frantically through the other sections to see if they were misaligned, too. He then started trying to answer what he could.

“Seven minutes were already gone,” he said. “Every fiber of my being is telling me to go outside and say something. At the same time, the clock is ticking, and I haven’t answered a question yet. I struggled through the rest.”

Mr. Jones said that after some students raised questions during the exam, all the Thomson Prometric testing centers were notified and were advised to tell students to ignore the problem section and not to worry. But Mr. Sonshine said he had not been told about the problem.

Some critics of standardized testing said yesterday that while there were advantages to computerized testing, they were not surprised to hear of problems with the MCAT.

“Every time a test has been computerized, there have been huge glitches,” said Robert A. Schaeffer, public education director for FairTest, an advocacy organization that opposes widespread standardized testing.

Mr. Schaeffer said the SAT problem grew out of the College Board’s practice of reusing its tests.

John S. Katzman, chief executive and founder of the Princeton Review, a test coaching company, said the problems with the SAT last weekend were a reminder that security and operational problems “happen even with paper and pencil.”

Mr. Jones said pilot tests last year, including one in August in which about 3,000 students took the computerized version of the MCAT, “went very smoothly.”
753 2007-01-30 The Iraqis and Americans eventually prevailed in the battle. But the Iraqi security forces’ miscalculations about the group’s strength and intentions raised troubling questions about their ability to recognize and deal with a threat.

The battle also brought into focus the reality that some of the power struggles in Iraq are among Shiites, not just between Shiites and Sunnis. The Soldiers of Heaven is considered to be at least partly or wholly run by Shiites.

Among the troubling questions raised is how hundreds of armed men were able to set up such an elaborate encampment, which Iraqi officials said included tunnels, trenches and a series of blockades, only 10 miles northeast of Najaf. After the fight was over, Iraqi officials said they discovered at least two antiaircraft weapons as well as 40 heavy machine guns.

The government knew that the Soldiers of Heaven had set up camp in the area, but officials said they thought they were there to worship together.

Mr. Abtan said the Iraqi forces later decided to move on the group because an informer said Sunday was “zero hour” and the government noticed more men streaming into the area.

“If this operation had succeeded, it would have been a chance of a lifetime for them,” he said.

The Iraqis initially sent a battalion from their Eighth Army Division, along with police forces, but they were quickly overwhelmed, according to an Iraqi commander at the scene. The battalion began to retreat but was soon surrounded and pinned down, and had to call in American air support to keep the enemy from overrunning its position.

American Apache attack helicopters and F-16s, as well as British fighter jets, flew low over the farms where the enemy had set up its encampments and attacked, dropping 500-pound bombs on the encampments. The Iraqi forces were still unable to advance, and they called in support from both an elite Iraqi unit known as the Scorpion Brigade, which is based to the north in Hilla, and from American ground troops.

Around noon, elements of the American Fourth Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division were dispatched from near Baghdad.

After an American helicopter was shot down at 1:30 p.m., some of those soldiers helped secure the crash site and recover the bodies of the two American soldiers killed in the crash, according to a statement by the American military. Others joined in the effort to combat the renegade militia, the statement said.

A commander in the Scorpion Brigade said the combined American and Iraqi forces killed 470 people. He also said some of the dead Soldiers of Heaven fighters were found bound together at the ankles and suggested that the chains had probably been used to keep people from fleeing and to keep them moving as one unified group.

Government estimates of the number of fighters killed ranged from 120 to 400.

An Iraqi military official said at least 25 security force members were killed in the battle.

Iraqi officials said Monday that they had killed the leader of the militia in the weekend fighting, identifying him as a man who went by the name Ahmed Hassan al-Yamani, but whose real name was Diyah Abdul Zahraa Khadom.

However, a Shiite cleric who has had contact with the group said the real leader was Ahmad bin al-Hassan al-Basri. The cleric said he believed that Mr. Basri was alive and probably hiding near Karbala.

Mr. Basri, while unknown to the average Iraqi, is relatively well known among the clerical hierarchy in Najaf, according to several clerics interviewed for this article.

The clerics who were interviewed said that Mr. Basri was a student of Moktada al-Sadr’s father, a revered cleric, and that Mr. Basri and the senior Mr. Sadr had a split in the early 1990s.

The governor of Najaf, Asad Abu Ghalal, in an interview on national television, said government intelligence officials told him that the Soldiers of Heaven have had ties with the government of Saddam Hussein as far back as 1993. He also said that the farmland where the militia had set up camp had been bought by a former Hussein loyalist, although he said that did not initially raise concerns about the group’s intentions.

Government officials were quick to point the finger at Al Qaeda, alleging that it provided financing for the group. But numerous Shiite clerics, seeking anonymity for fear of contradicting the government, said it was highly unlikely that Al Qaeda, a Sunni group, would link up with a Shiite messianic group.

Officials in the Shiite-dominated government are loath to detail internal rivalries in their community, but in the past three years there have been several clashes between rival factions, and the deaths of two senior Shiite ayatollahs have been linked to internal struggles for dominance.

The often bloody internal rivalries have been overshadowed by the more overt Sunni-Shiite war being fought daily in Baghdad and in other mixed cities.

WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 (Reuters) — A former Defense Department contractor was sentenced Monday to nine years in prison and ordered to forfeit $3.6 million for his role in a bribery and fraud scheme involving contracts to reconstruct Iraq.

Justice Department officials said the contractor, Robert Stein, 52, of Fayetteville, N.C., also was sentenced to three years of probation after his release from prison.

Mr. Stein, the comptroller and funding officer for the Coalition Provisional Authority — South Central Region in 2003 and 2004, pleaded guilty a year ago to criminal charges including bribery, money laundering and conspiracy. He admitted that he conspired, along with others, including several United States Army officers, to rig bids to steer contracts to a certain contractor.
754 2007-01-30 Over 5,000 software and hardware products are ready to run on Vista, and Microsoft has more than 500,000 industry partners worldwide, including resellers, retailers and consultants as well as hardware and software companies. Millions of developers write programs that run on Windows.

For every dollar Microsoft makes on Windows Vista, the rest of the industry will collect $18 of revenue, estimates IDC, a technology research firm. Indeed, those that build products and services on top of and around Microsoft’s technology constitute an industry ecosystem that business professors have studied. And Microsoft’s long investment in nurturing that network of mutual support, they say, is a major reason that Windows holds more than 90 percent of the market for PC operating systems.

In the United States, the IDC report concluded, “this ecosystem should sell about $70 billion in products and services revolving around Windows Vista” in 2007. The introduction of Windows Vista, IDC projected, is expected to generate 157,000 jobs in the United States. The IDC study was paid for by Microsoft, but the research firm said it used its own methodology.

Because the universe of Windows users has grown, Mr. Ballmer predicted that sales of Windows Vista in the first three months would be five times the early sales of Windows 95, introduced in 1995, and double the sales of Windows XP, shipped in 2001.

Mr. Ballmer spoke at a news conference in New York, along with executives from large computer manufacturers and chip makers. “I hope your forecasts are right,” said Todd Bradley, executive vice president for personal computers at Hewlett-Packard. “We’d all be thrilled.”

The industry has certainly been patient. Vista suffered repeated delays, coming five years after Windows XP. Microsoft has vowed that there will never again be so lengthy a gap between versions of its operating system. Industry analysts expect that Microsoft will more regularly update Windows with new features and bug fixes delivered over the Internet — and that the line between the desktop software and Internet software will increasingly blur.

“Today will go down in computing history as the last big operating system launch for Microsoft,” said Gary Beach, publisher of CIO Magazine, a publication for professional technology managers.

For those upgrading from previous versions of Windows, there are three versions of Vista, from $100 to $260. The new operating system has striking three-dimensional graphics, an easier-to-use interface and improved security, and it handles games, music, video and pictures far better than previous generations of Windows, most product reviewers have agreed. But many reviewers have also pointed out that most of the new features in Vista are already in Apple’s Macintosh computers.

Mr. Ballmer and Bill Gates, the chairman, presided over a gathering in a Times Square theater to celebrate Vista’s arrival, along with industry partners, analysts, and early Vista users, or beta testers. One was Farage Yusupov, a lawyer at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. Some Vista features, he said, did not run on his two-year-old laptop.

But Mr. Yusupov said he planned to get a new computer with Vista soon. “In a year or two, every computer is going to have it,” he said. “Since I’m going to get it sooner or later, I want it sooner.”

Microsoft’s industry partners described Vista as a watershed. Hector Ruiz, the chairman of Advanced Micro Devices, a microprocessor maker, said the new Microsoft operating system would usher in “the visualization age of computing” with rich 3-D graphics entering the mainstream. “And stunning visual experiences require outstanding hardware,” Mr. Ruiz added.

Kevin B. Rollins, Dell’s chief executive, said his company began taking orders online over the weekend for Vista-equipped machines. Traffic on the company’s Web site increased 20 percent because of demand for PC’s running Vista, and tens of thousands of them have been sold in the last couple of days, Mr. Rollins said.

Sean Maloney, executive vice president of Intel, said that Vista’s abilities combined with rapidly advancing technology in microchips would lead to a “golden age for PCs,” allowing them to serve as a central hub for storing, managing and sending digital media like movies and music to television sets and music players in the home.

In an interview, Mr. Bradley of Hewlett-Packard pointed to his company’s TouchSmart PC, being released to coincide with Vista’s debut, to show that manufacturers are increasingly able to use Microsoft’s operating system as “a platform we can build around instead of just embed on our machines.”

The $1,699 model, with a 20-inch touch screen and television tuner built in, has a user interface that has been tailored by Hewlett-Packard engineers so that it looks different from a standard Windows machine. Microsoft’s antitrust settlement with the federal government required the software maker to give PC makers more freedom to modify Windows.

Most of Microsoft’s vast marketing budget will be on print, television, radio and Web advertisements. But some will go for so-called viral marketing events like an online puzzle contest called Vanishing Point, sponsored by Microsoft and A.M.D. The winner will get a ride into space from a private space travel company.

The strategy, said Michael Sievert, vice president for Windows marketing, “is really about getting people to come in and have a look.”
755 2007-01-30 Just last week, a spokesman for Bristol-Myers had vehemently denied that the company was actively seeking a merger or takeover.

Still, the two companies have held exploratory talks in the past, the people close to the companies said, and some deal may be pursued in the future even if there are no current discussions. And the credibility of La Lettre and the firm wording of its report gave the story credence, prompting a run-up in Bristol-Myers’s share price yesterday.

Bristol-Myers Squibb shares soared on the rumors, at one point reaching a 52-week high of $28.26 before closing at $27.43, up $1.22, or 4.65 percent. American depository receipts in Sanofi-Aventis declined 77 cents, to close at $44.57, or down 1.7 percent, in New York trading.

One reason a merger makes sense is that the companies already jointly market the blockbuster anticoagulant Plavix and the blood pressure medicine Avapro, products with a worldwide sales value of more than $8 billion. A combined company could market those products under one management structure.

Plavix is Bristol-Myers’s largest product and Sanofi’s second largest.

The marketing arrangements had fueled speculation for months that the companies were likely merger partners. That speculation has grown since September, when Bristol-Myers fired its chief executive, Peter R. Dolan, and appointed an interim chief, James M. Cornelius, after bungled patent negotiations over Plavix with a Canadian generic drug maker.

Since then, no permanent successor to Mr. Dolan has been named, increasing speculation that Bristol-Myers was in play. And there have been other signs a merger was being contemplated.

Bristol-Myers recently announced agreements with several top managers that would allow them to walk away with significant compensation in the event of demotions, transfers or cuts in pay.

In a note to clients yesterday, a Banc of America Securities analyst, Christopher Schott, said the companies’ overlaps in several therapeutic areas — including treatments for diabetes, cancer and blood clots — would let a merged company cut costs and become more competitive.

Another reason Bristol-Myers might be an attractive acquisition is its pipeline of new products, some in later stages of development, including two diabetes products it recently agreed to develop with AstraZeneca. Some analysts have criticized Sanofi’s pipeline and noted that its only potential blockbuster, the weight-loss and diabetes drug Acomplia, has faced regulatory delays in the United States.

“Sanofi has a large legacy of mature products and its only potential blockbuster in the near term is Acomplia,” said Paul Diggle, a London-based analyst for Nomura Code Securities.

Some analysts, however, have worried that Sanofi is still digesting its $65 billion takeover of the French drug maker Aventis Pharmaceuticals in 2004 and that it would be too soon for it to absorb another large company.

Mr. Schott also noted that there was still a chance the companies could lose the Plavix franchise. Bristol-Myers and Sanofi are currently in federal court in Manhattan, in a trial that began last week, defending the patent on Plavix against a challenge by Apotex, a manufacturer of generics based in Toronto.

“While we consider Bristol/Sanofi to have a high probability of winning the Plavix patent challenge after it was granted a preliminary injunction, the loss of the franchise is still a possibility,” Mr. Schott said.

Because Bristol-Myers has been troubled recently, some shareholders see a takeover as the fastest way to bring about a revival.

In the last five years, it has been plagued by federal and state investigations of its practices, as well as related shareholder lawsuits. The company recently announced plans to settle, for $499 million, an investigation by federal authorities in Massachusetts into its sales and marketing practices. That settlement is expected to require that the company sign a corporate integrity agreement with the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services.

The company is currently operating under a similar agreement with the United States attorney in Newark, Christopher J. Christie, after a settlement of a criminal investigation into whether it misled investors about its wholesale inventories.

Mr. Dolan’s ouster in September followed efforts to settle the Plavix patent litigation that ended up enabling Apotex to sell its generic version for several weeks last August, flooding the United States market with more than $1 billion worth of the generic version. Shipments were eventually halted by the judge now overseeing the patent trial.

Bristol-Myers reported a loss of $134 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 because of competition from that generic.
756 2007-01-30 A yearlong scientific analysis by the Harvard University Art Museums of three paintings discovered in 2003 and considered to be possible works by Jackson Pollock has found that some of the pigments used in the paints were not patented or commercially available until long after Pollock died in 1956.

The examination of the chemical makeup of the paintings — conducted with the consent of Alex Matter, who found the works among the possessions of his late father, Herbert, a close friend of Pollock’s — does not conclusively end the debate over whether Pollock had a hand in the works.

But the findings cast doubt on that possibility. And they suggest that at the very least, the paintings, taken from a cache of 32 works found by Mr. Matter in a Long Island storage bin, may have been substantially added to or altered after Pollock’s death.

In the case of one of the three paintings, which is dominated by bright orange drips and splashed curlicues, the analysis found a pigment in the orange paint that was not available until 1971. That work and another of the three also contained substances within the paints that were “most likely” not available until 1962 or 1963, the report said. A third painting, which was badly damaged and heavily restored, was found to contain a brown paint that was developed in the early 1980s and did not come onto the market until 1986. (Herbert Matter died in 1984.)

To examine the paintings, Harvard relied on some of the latest technology to be trained on disputed works of art, including an electron microscope. Even before the analysis was complete, however, the paintings had been the subject of an intense scientific and scholarly debate.
757 2007-01-30 Gail Berman and Lloyd Braun, two Hollywood executives who formerly ran network entertainment divisions, have created a company to produce entertainment for television, films and the Internet.

No details of the partnership have yet been announced, but an entertainment industry executive close to both said yesterday that they had been meeting with potential partners in Hollywood and seeking office space.

The new company, which is expected to be called Berman-Braun Productions, will bring together two former competitors who are longtime personal friends. Ms. Berman ran the entertainment division of the Fox network from July 2000 to March 2005. Mr. Braun led the entertainment division at ABC from July 1999 to April 2004.

Both have been closely linked with hit programs in the recent past. Ms. Berman was instrumental in getting shows like “24” and “House” on Fox, and Mr. Braun was the executive who initiated and championed “Lost” at ABC.

About two months ago, Mr. Braun resigned as head of the media division at Yahoo after an effort to develop original entertainment programming for the Web site proved a disappointment.

Ms. Berman left her post as president of Paramount Pictures more than two weeks ago after enduring what several studio executives described as a rocky relationship with the chairman, Brad Grey.
758 2007-01-30 SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 29 — The Coast Guard is searching for a computer scientist from Microsoft who left for a daylong sailing trip off the coast of San Francisco on Sunday and did not return.

The man, James Gray, 63, who works in Microsoft’s Silicon Valley research lab, set out alone Sunday morning for the Farallon Islands on his 40-foot boat, Tenacious, and was expected back that afternoon, Lt. Amy Marrs, a Coast Guard spokeswoman, said Monday.

Mr. Gray’s wife notified authorities at 8:35 p.m. Sunday after he failed to return and did not answer cellphone calls, the Coast Guard said.

The Farallon Islands are about 25 miles west of the Golden Gate Bridge, and in optimal conditions the trip there and back takes about 10 hours.

Mr. Gray, who has worked at Microsoft for 10 years, researches databases and transaction processing systems. He is an authority on computer caching systems, which are meant to speed the transfer of frequently needed data or instructions. He received several computer science awards, including the prestigious Turing Award in 1998.
759 2007-01-30 His specialty is the developing world and he tries, in his travels as an adviser, to help countries improve the mix. Now he is arguing for an improvement in the United States, his adopted home.

As a practical matter, he says, Washington must counteract the damage from America’s trade policies more than it has in the past. It is a message that is resonating not just with populists in both parties, who have long been skeptical of the benefits of globalization, but increasingly with mainstream policy thinkers, many of them associated with former President Bill Clinton.

The focus, Mr. Rodrik and others argue, should not be simply on cutting tariffs and eliminating other barriers, but on offsetting the negative effect on wages and jobs from the spread of globalization and outsourcing.

“The consensus until recently was that trade was not a major cause of the earnings inequality in this country,” said David H. Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “That consensus is now being revisited.”

He added that “not everybody agrees with Dani, but at this point there is agreement that outsourcing abroad, in particular, is potentially a source of real downward pressure on employment and wages.”

Like most economists, Mr. Rodrik believes that unrestricted trade enriches the participating nations, helping more people than it hurts. But in his view, this is not the moment to lower trade barriers another notch.

The movement across borders of goods, services, capital and production, he said, is “open enough as it is.” He would concentrate instead on building public awareness that social insurance and free trade are “two sides of the same coin,” a concept entrenched in Europe but not in the United States.

“The people who talk incessantly about trade and its importance,” Mr. Rodrik said, “do so without recognizing the importance of the social insurance agenda as part and parcel of that process.”

Unlike Mr. Rodrik, most mainstream economists favor pushing ahead with the currently stalled Doha round of negotiations, aimed at further reductions in trade barriers.

Still, many Democratic policy thinkers are beginning to embrace the Rodrik argument that trade and social programs must be intertwined. And they talk more about that lately than restarting the global trade talks.

“The best thing we can do for free trade is focus on strengthening domestic policies that strengthen social insurance,” said Jason Furman, director of the Hamilton Project, a research group founded by Robert E. Rubin, who served as Mr. Clinton’s Treasury secretary.

The goal of the Hamilton Project is to put together economic policies aimed at influencing the Democratic Party’s platform. When it comes to trade, Mr. Rubin and his followers want to push ahead with further trade openings, disagreeing with Mr. Rodrik on this point. But to soften the backlash they, too, propose a safety net that goes beyond the education and retraining that was Mr. Clinton’s principal response in the 1990s to the damage from trade.

“My argument is that we need to have a new social contract,” said Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale who is working on a plan for health insurance modeled on Medicare and a program to provide subsidized 401(k) accounts. “This new social contract won’t be as extensive as those in Europe,” he added, “but it will move a lot of the responsibility for providing economic security off the backs of employers.”

Mr. Furman, for his part, singled out two priorities: a law that would maintain health insurance for laid-off workers and another that would provide wage insurance for American workers, paid out when a worker loses a job and finds another but at lower pay. The wage insurance would make up some of the lost pay during the first two years in the new job.

“People are more likely to support free trade,” Mr. Furman said, “if it does not have the intense personal downside that it so often has today.”

For all the similarities between Mr. Rodrik’s thinking and that of the middle-of-the-road economists associated with the Hamilton Project, there are some important differences, too. Among them is Mr. Rodrik’s matter-of-fact insistence that in the rest of the world, trade goes forward because government plays a decisive role in promoting it.

Mr. Autor counters that Mr. Rodrik puts too much trust in policy makers. “Government does not have special information that allows it to pick winners and losers,” Mr. Autor insisted. “So unless there is a specific market failure that requires public intervention, we economists do not presume that government does a better job than the icy fingers of the invisible hand.”

N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist and a former chairman of President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers, puts the mainstream case in the language of David Ricardo, the 19th-century British economist whose initial description of the doctrine known as “comparative advantage” still holds sway today.

“We in the United States,” Mr. Mankiw said, “have a comparative advantage in higher education, financial services, aircraft manufacturing and a variety of forms of intellectual property such as movies and software. Putting our resources into these rather than into areas where we don’t have a comparative advantage, such as textiles, allows us to increase the total income of Americans more than if trade were restricted.”

Mr. Rodrik sympathizes with this view, but he nevertheless says that in the developing world, almost no one practices hands-off economics. Government, he argues, often plays a role in creating a comparative advantage where one did not exist before. He made this point at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association in Chicago this month.

While several hundred people filled a large hotel conference room to hear a panel of economists discuss abstract trade issues, Mr. Rodrik, holding forth in a smaller meeting room two floors below, explained China’s success in concrete terms. Most of the 30 people in his audience were Asian economists studying in the United States or working here.

The Chinese government operated on several levels as that nation grew into an export powerhouse, Mr. Rodrik said. It nurtured the manufacture of electronic products and auto parts. It forced foreign investors into joint ventures with domestic producers. Beijing lowered trade barriers, he said, “only after it developed a relatively sophisticated manufacturing capacity.”

Absent an activist policy to protect China’s nascent industries, it would not have emerged as an export power, Mr. Rodrik said. “The traditional forces of comparative advantage,” he said, “would have pushed China to specialize only in the labor-intensive products ‘appropriate’ to low-income economies.”

Mr. Rodrik, who maintains his Turkish citizenship and is married to a Turkish woman who also teaches at Harvard, is descended from a family of Sephardic Jews who migrated to Turkey from Spain five centuries ago. During his senior year at a private high school in Istanbul, he applied to Harvard, mostly for the adventure of it, and was accepted.

“Like most Turks of my generation I thought I would end up doing engineering,” he said. But at Harvard, “a new world opened for me and I started to understand that the problems of underdevelopment were not technical problems in the sense of a lack of engineers or a lack of doctors. It was a problem of social organization.”

As an undergraduate, he majored in political science but, prodded in part by his father, he eventually entered the Ph.D. program in economics at Princeton. He taught for four years at Columbia before shifting to the Kennedy School in 1996, where he became expert at helping developing countries organize export industries.

“Costa Rica is not a natural place to manufacture semiconductors,” Mr. Rodrik said, citing just one example, but the government “got Intel to come in and do just that.”

Over the last year, his travels have taken him to South Africa, Portugal, China, the Philippines. In Portugal, the people he advises are trying to decide whether to invest heavily in vast retirement complexes for elderly Germans, French and British, or whether to make a “huge leap” into high-tech industries.

Mr. Rodrik encouraged the Portuguese to go down both paths. “You take into account that there is a lot of uncertainty about what will eventually be successful,” he said, “so you try to spawn experimentation in different kinds of economic activities.”

That, too, fits with his own experience in Istanbul, where the family business initially faltered as the spread of free trade reached Turkey. But an older brother, now running the business, shifted to selling imported pens. The transition away from tariff-protected manufacturing was not easy, he says, but his brother, too, was finally successful.
760 2007-01-30 Then, the Senate could hold on to the bill, leaving it to leaders from both chambers to work out the differences. Or, it could send the bill to the House, where the House could strip out the tax breaks and send it back to the Senate for a new vote.

Aides to some House leaders say they would be willing to allow some of the tax breaks. But others, including Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, are insisting that they will not concede any tax cuts.

House Democrats say that by forcing a vote on a clean bill they would force Senate Republicans to put themselves on record as opposing a wage increase, which was a popular campaign issue in the midterm elections.

“We are still operating on the assumption or hope that the Senate will pass a clean minimum wage bill,” said Stacey F. Bernards, a spokeswoman for Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic leader. “If it doesn’t happen, it’s because a minority of Republicans held it up. It’s their fault.”

That simple approach to raising the minimum wage failed in the Senate last week. Sixty votes were required to cut off debate on the bill, sending it for a vote, but Democrats were able to enlist just five Republicans, for a vote of 54 to 43.

“The only way we’re going to get a minimum wage increase through the Senate is if it is accompanied by tax breaks for small businesses,” said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. “I haven’t seen a diminution of the opposition.”

Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, said he believed the Senate might go along if the House sent back a bill stripped of the tax breaks. “This is good cover for the Republicans,” he said. “They’re saying, ‘I’m not against a minimum wage increase, I just want tax breaks for small businesses.’

“But when the choice is yes or no because the House did something out of our control,” he added, “I think we’ll get more of them on our side.”

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who has been the chief proponent of the measure, has hammered Republicans almost daily, accusing them of trying to stall the bill with amendments. “It’s always baffling to me what do Republicans have against hard-working Americans?” he said Monday.

The bill would raise the federal minimum wage $2.10 an hour over two years, from $5.15 to $7.25, and would be the first increase since 1996.

Among the tax breaks would be a five-year extension of the credit provided to employers who hire people who have traditionally had trouble finding jobs, as well as a tax credit for hiring veterans disabled in Afghanistan and Iraq after the 9/11 attacks; an extension through March 31, 2008, of a provision that allows businesses to deduct the cost of improvements to leased properties more quickly; and a permanent change to the tax code allowing small businesses to use the cash method of accounting.

The Senate Committee on Finance, which approved the small business tax breaks in the package being voted on, said the cuts would be covered by closing tax loopholes for companies and executives.
761 2007-01-30 “This audience is highly influential,” said Mr. Means. “The general population take their cues from what the online buzz is discovering.”

Along with Microsoft’s ad agency, McCann Erickson, a unit of the Interpublic Group, Mr. Martin and Mekanism developed a Web site (clearification.com) that offers a series of “webisodes,” or stories told in short video clips. Microsoft also sponsored a performance tour for Mr. Martin and his Comedy Central special, which was shown last night. The agencies produced commercials specifically for that TV special.

“We wanted something very special for this audience; something very low key,” said Brian Marr, Microsoft group marketing manager for Windows Vista. “This is an audience that is very cautious about marketing.”

Microsoft liked Mr. Martin’s in-the-know humor, but was also drawn to his built-in digital audience. His page on MySpace.com lists more than 80,000 friends.

News of the clearification.com site was released in e-mail messages to influential blogs like laughingsquid.com and on video sites like YouTube.com. The site also lets visitors sign up for an alert to notify them when the latest webisode is released.

There is no direct pitch for Microsoft or Windows Vista on the site, but there is, as it turns out, a connection between Mr. Martin’s meandering commercials and Windows Vista.

“Windows Vista’s brand promise is that it’s easier; it brings clarity to life. He took that idea and made a very funny series,” Mr. Marr said. “Here’s a guy who is cluttered in his life and finds clarity. That’s the whole idea of clearification.”

Mr. Marr said the campaign with Mr. Martin was not related to the media blitz Microsoft plans for the introduction of Windows Vista today, but played an important role in linking the brand to influential people.

Nissan North America used the idea of hiring a little-known comedian, Marc Horowitz, to live in a 2007 Sentra for a week and blog about it to underscore its advertising theme: “The next generation Sentra. You could pretty much live in it.”

The idea was to get mentioned in Web conversations, and the metrics show it worked, said Stephen Kerho, Nissan’s director of interactive marketing and media. Mr. Horowitz’s exploits were tracked on more than 270 message boards, for example, and video clips of his antics were viewed 50,000 times during the first four weeks after its introduction last fall. Visits to the corporate Web site that originated in its Sentra section doubled in the last quarter.

“It had an extremely high level of engagement, that you can’t get in a 30-second spot alone,” Mr. Kerho said. “It’s a great model for us for other campaigns.”

That’s not to say 30-second spots are dead. Sierra Mist’s campaign, which includes a troupe of lesser-known comedians, has been blogged about and chatted about as well. Among its popular spots was one set at an airport, with Kathy Griffin, the comedian and actress, as a security official who makes funny noises with her mouth every time her wand gets near a Sierra Mist bottle.

“At the heart and soul, the chemistry was the key,” said Bill Bruce, chief creative officer at BBDO New York. “The goal was to create little 30-second TV shows, if you will, to try to change the paradigm of commercial interruption. The idea is that these are episodes.”

Still, with all these new faces, is the era of celebrity advertising waning? Sierra Mist’s maker, Pepsi, whose ads have featured Beyoncé Knowles and Britney Spears among others, thinks not.

“I absolutely do not think the celebrity era of advertising is gone; consumers remain fascinated with celebrities,” said Frank Cooper, vice president of marketing for flavored carbonated drinks at Pepsi. “What there isn’t is a blanket rule. The idea is to deliver something with depth and substance.”
762 2007-01-30 It would also effectively tighten patent legislation passed by India in 2005 to limit the manufacture of generic drugs. The law was intended to bring India in line with the World Trade Organization’s agreement on intellectual property rights.

The 2005 law allows patents to be granted on new versions of older, off-patent medicines if the new version can be shown to represent a significant improvement on the original, but not in the case of “incremental innovations.”

Novartis said its new drug could be absorbed more easily by the body. Last year, an Indian court rejected the argument that the drug constituted a major improvement on the earlier version.

John Gilardi, a spokesman for Novartis, said by telephone from Switzerland that the company’s appeal was in part an attempt to gauge how the law was going to be put into practice.

“We are trying to gain clarity as to what guides India’s patent laws,” Mr. Gilardi said. The case was about “clarifying intellectual property rights and not about access to medicines,” he said, adding that Novartis already gave free supplies of Gleevac to 6,800 patients in India suffering from the rare form of leukemia that it was developed to combat. He said that number represented more than 90 percent of all the cases in the country.

“If there is no patent protection, we will not see billions of dollars being invested in the research of medicines,” Mr. Gilardi said. “This is not about access to medicines. It is about establishing whether India is going to step up and adopt the minimum international standards required for the protection of intellectual property.”

But Unni Karunakara, medical director of a Doctors Without Borders campaign to broaden access to medicines, said a ruling in favor of Novartis could obstruct the organization in providing treatment for AIDS patients globally.

“Novartis is trying to shut down the pharmacy of the developing world,” Dr. Karunakara said at a news conference in New Delhi. “Indian drugs form the backbone of our AIDS programs, in which 80,000 people in over 30 counties receive treatment. Over 80 percent of the medicines we use to treat AIDS come from India.”

Doctors Without Borders and Oxfam have collected nearly 250,000 signatures on a petition asking Novartis to drop the case, which was adjourned until Feb. 15.
763 2007-01-30 Nickelodeon, the popular children’s cable network, is pushing hard into the online world with Nicktropolis.com, a new Web site that will let its young users enter their own world of Internet activities.

The Web site, which is to be activated today, is aimed at children ages 6 to 14, and plays heavily to their appetite for games, the company said yesterday.

Nickelodeon was prompted to join the surging world of online activities for children in part by research that showed that 86 percent of 8- to 14-year-olds were playing games online, more than 51 percent were watching TV shows and videos online and 37 percent were sending instant messages, the company said.

On the Web site, Nickelodeon, which is part of Viacom, can take advantage of the fact that it owns much of its own programming.

“Over all, its Internet activities are its fastest-growing business,” said Richard Greenfield, who follows the media industry for Pali Research. “It owns virtually all its content and can leverage it across broadband and Internet. It is a big opportunity for the company.”
764 2007-01-30 WHEN are they going to change the cakes? La Villita, a Mexican bakery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, has become a familiar presence on the corner of Bedford Avenue and Grand Street, with its curious window display of cakes.

They look as though they were baked in the 1980s. Once-white icing has yellowed with time, marzipan rosettes have browned in the sunlight and dust has coated faded petals.

Neighborhood residents often stop and check on the fossilized cakes. Some wonder if perhaps new ones have finally been baked, while others look to make sure they have not.

Are the bakers avoiding the inevitable, like doing the laundry?

A Busby Berkeley formation of storks and pink and blue babies decorates one cake. Dingy swans hold up the classical columns of a wedding cake in ruin.

On a decrepit meringue island, a naked knockoff of a Barbie doll is marooned in the sugar sand next to an overturned toy bottle of champagne.
765 2007-01-30 Excluding the one-time charges, Verizon earned 62 cents a share, slightly beating analysts’ average forecast of 61 cents a share, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

“They had a very strong quarter,” said Christopher Larsen, a telecommunications analyst with Credit Suisse. “They are the owners of new- customer generation.”

Shares of Verizon increased 20 cents yesterday to close at $38.03. The shares have climbed from a 52-week low of $30.10 in May.

For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Verizon’s revenue totaled $22.60 billion, an increase of 26 percent over $17.93 billion in the period in 2005, with much of that gain attributed to Verizon’s acquisition of MCI’s long-distance business.

About $10.10 billion of the revenue came from Verizon’s wireless business, up 16.3 percent from $8.69 billion a year earlier.

Mr. Strigl called 2006 a repositioning year. “We have come out of 2006 a leaner, more efficient company, more focused than where we were a year ago,” he said yesterday. “We’re very well positioned for a strong 2007.”

Mr. Strigl said Verizon planned to announce today a new pricing option that would add wireless service to its list of services that already includes wired phone, television and Internet, a move he says would give Verizon an advantage over its rivals. However, he added, Verizon has no plans now to match AT&T’s new Unity plan that gives AT&T Wireless customers unlimited calling to AT&T’s wired-phone customers.

As with AT&T, Verizon’s traditional telephone service has been shrinking. The number of phone customers in Verizon’s local network declined by nearly 900,000 in the quarter, to 45.1 million. The business services operation that was formed by the acquisition of MCI generated $5.3 billion in revenue during the fourth quarter, up 2.7 percent from a year earlier.

Verizon invested $23 billion to expand its high-speed network for Internet and television, in an effort to compete with Comcast and other cable companies moving into the telecommunications business.

During the fourth quarter, Verizon’s network, called FiOS, added 165,000 Internet customers and 89,000 television customers. Expanding the service reduced earnings by 10 cents a share in the fourth quarter, and during the first quarter will reduce profit by 11 cents, Verizon said.

Mr. Larsen, the analyst, said that the investment was justified as a critical part of Verizon’s three- to five-year growth plan. The executives said the company expected 2007 capital expenditures of $17.5 billion to $17.9 billion. Verizon executives declined to forecast earnings for the year ahead.

Mr. Strigl also confirmed a report yesterday in USA Today that Verizon had been in discussions with Apple Inc., starting two years ago, to sell the Apple iPhone, the combination cellphone, digital music player and organizer that Apple announced this month.

A deal would have given Verizon exclusive rights to sell the iPhone instead of Cingular.

Mr. Strigl said Verizon turned down a possible deal with Apple because it was demanding a share of subscriber revenue and control over servicing the device.

Mr. Strigl said he had no regrets about turning down Apple.

“We’re happy to let someone else experiment with this phone,” he said. When the time is right, Mr. Strigl said, Verizon will have a “very competitive offering.”

Mark Siegel, a spokesman for AT&T Wireless, would not provide details of his company’s contract with Apple for iPhone.
766 2007-01-30 “But the ticket agent said it wouldn’t be a problem,” I continued. “It’s a terribly long flight. Why don’t you just let us change seats?”

It was time to take a stand. I packed up all of my carry-on bags and sat down behind my wife in the closest available seat in the coach cabin. If they weren’t going to let her sit in my seat, then I didn’t want to sit in it either.

It took only a minute for the rule-abiding flight attendant to find me.

“Why are you sitting here?” he demanded. “I thought I told you — no swapping seats!”

“And I haven’t. I moved to coach to be with my wife.”

“But that is not allowed.”

Eventually, the captain had to be called to mediate our dispute. And after apologizing profusely, he ordered an upgrade for my spouse.

The reward for standing up for your principles isn’t always immediate. Or even immediately apparent.

Not long ago, while I waited for my flight to leave from Paris, I was watching TV with several other passengers in the business-class lounge. Without warning, the lounge steward switched the channel on the television to a soccer match.

The passengers were baffled, but no one said anything. Except me.

“Why did you change the channel?” I asked. “Shouldn’t we at least have been consulted?”

The steward refused to change the channel back, and a heated argument ensued. Soon, the authorities arrived. But this time the outcome was different.

One of the airline managers ruled in the steward’s favor and issued the following ultimatum: either apologize to him or you won’t be allowed to board your flight. Given that I had done nothing wrong — except to question someone’s choice in TV programming — I took yet another stand by refusing. I spent an extra night in Paris and caught the next flight.

So where’s the reward in that? When I told the story to the prospective client I had planned to visit, he not only understood, he also respected my decision to stand firm, and ended up becoming a valuable customer.
767 2007-01-30 In Maureen Dowd’s Jan. 17 column, I feel that the statement that Henry A. Kissinger “is working on an official biography of himself with Mr. Horne” is liable to misinterpretation.

To avoid any ambiguity, I would like to set the record right.

What has actually been accepted between Dr. Kissinger, my publishers, Simon and Schuster, and me concerning the book that I have been commissioned to write about Dr. Kissinger in the year 1973 is as follows:

“Dr. Kissinger has agreed to give Alistair Horne complete access and cooperation for his book, but has no editorial control over it.”

That is the full extent of his involvement.
768 2007-01-30 The Supreme Court did well to reject the procedural obstacles to inmate litigation that federal courts have added to those already placed by the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

But this is mere tinkering at the edges.

After a decade of experience, it is abundantly clear that Congress should drastically overhaul it.

Departments of correction have used the Prison Litigation Reform Act to deny far too many prisoners a fair chance of getting a judicial remedy when they become victims of appalling medical care, staff violence and sexual harassment, among other serious prison abuses.
769 2007-01-30 A new study suggests that having many siblings may increase the risk for certain stomach cancers and that younger siblings may be more at risk than older ones.

Researchers gathered blood samples from 7,429 Japanese-American men living in Hawaii from 1967 to 1975 to determine whether they were infected with Helicobacter pylori, a childhood infection known to increase the risk for stomach cancer much later in life. They followed the men for 28 years, during which 261 developed gastric cancer.

From that group, the researchers selected the cases of those infected with H. pylori — 239, or 92 percent — and compared them with a group of cancer-free, but also infected, controls. The team then looked at family size and birth order in both groups.

Among the cases with the most the virulent strain of H. pylori, called cagA, those from families with seven or more children were more than twice as likely to develop cancer as those from families with one to three children, and younger children had a higher risk than older ones.

The study appears in the January issue of PloS Medicine.

“It’s remarkable that something that’s happening in the early years of life affects the risk of a cancer happening seven decades later,” said Dr. Martin J. Blaser, the lead author and a professor of medicine at New York University. “It’s my hypothesis that this may be a model system for other cancers.”

The authors acknowledge that some factor other than family size or birth order may be the cause of the findings. But they suggest that the germ is transmitted among siblings, and that the immature immune systems of younger children may make them more susceptible.
770 2007-01-30 But Flight 1348 got most of the attention because of the extraordinary length of time the passengers were kept on board, and, I suspect, because Kate Hanni was among them.

Ms. Hanni, a real estate broker in the Napa Valley of California, was furious about what she calls the indifference that American Airlines officials in Austin showed her and more than 100 other passengers who were unable to leave the plane from about 1 p.m. until about 9:20 p.m.

“We were basically held captive for almost nine hours,” she said. Ms. Hanni was bound for a resort in Alabama with her husband, Tim Hanni, and their two children. Mr. Hanni, a well-known wine expert, was to give a seminar at the resort.

Since Dec. 29, Ms. Hanni has been rounding up support from other aggrieved passengers. She has scheduled appointments in Congress today through Thursday to push for a so-called Passengers’ Bill of Rights that would require airlines to provide specific redress for inordinate delays and other customer service problems.

“We’ve reached the tipping point of consumer dissatisfaction with how customer service is being handled by the airlines,” she said. Ms. Hanni and others have complained that no food was available, the cabin air became foul and toilets were overflowing.

Tim Wagner, an American spokesman, said that in a typical bad thunderstorm situation, “we might divert 40 flights from Dallas,” rather than the 88 diverted that day.

For an airline, it’s a tough call to decide whether to cancel a flight or keep it in line for a takeoff opening. On Dec. 29, passengers on eight American flights were kept on airplanes in Austin for at least three hours. But keeping the passengers on board Flight 1348 for over eight hours was a mistake, Mr. Wagner acknowledged. “The call to cancel that flight should have come earlier,” he said yesterday.

He added: “There is some dispute over exactly how dire the circumstance were on that flight. I do have flight attendants reports saying no toilets overflowed. We ran out of bottled water but we still had plenty of drinking water.”

On heavy travel days during bad weather, when all available aircraft and crews are in use and delays are mounting, cancellations of flights can strand passengers for several days in airports, he said. But, he added, after Dec. 29 the airline “re-emphasized” to operations managers that “after three hours we have to make a decision, and approaching four hours, we need to bring them in and cancel, and work on getting those passengers to their destinations.”

Federal legislation to address what he called an “anomaly” would be “an overreaction,” he said.

In 1999, when Northwest Airlines passengers in Detroit were stranded in a plane for seven hours in a blizzard, there was a similar move to introduce federal legislation. But the legislation died after heavy lobbying by the industry and, some said, because the proposed legislation sought to apply federal law to too broad an array of problems in air travel.

Ms. Hanni said the Passengers’ Bill of Rights now being proposed is more narrowly focused. “I’m concerned about the ability to push it through unless we keep it simple and to the point,” she said.

You can judge for yourself. The draft of the proposal is at www.strandedpassengers.blogspot.com.
771 2007-01-30 To the Editor:      Re ''Limits on Prison Suits Are Eased'' (news article, Jan. 23):...
772 2007-01-30 The supply of low-cost generic versions of cancer and AIDS treatments for the developing world could be blocked if Novartis wins a legal challenge to India's patent law, patients' rights groups have contended.      But Western drug companies say t...
773 2007-01-30 To the Editor:     In Maureen Dowd's Jan. 17 column, I feel that the statement that Henry A. Kissinger ''is working on an official biography of himself with Mr. Horne'' is liable to misinterpretation....
774 2007-01-30 The South China Morning Post, the largest English-language daily newspaper in Hong Kong, said the paper's editor, Fanny Fung, and managing editor, Pauline Loong, had resigned, the latest in a series of personnel changes over the last year. The res...
775 2007-01-30 ZAM--Dr. Melissa D. On January 29, 2007. Beloved sister of Bradley, daughter of Philip and Pamela, grandaughter of Vivian and Lester Cooper. Services Tuesday, 9am at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue....
776 2007-01-30 FINDING FLAWS IN SOFTWARE -- Several companies are offering to pay researchers to find the holes in Microsoft's new Windows Vista program, new software that goes on sale today. Others with less legitimate intentions pay handsomely for the informat...
777 2007-01-30 DeMIRJIAN--Arto Jr., 76. We are saddened to announce the death of our beloved friend after a valiant battle. Loving uncle, cousin and godfather; devoted companion of Howard Siegman; long time publishing professional and mystery writer, vibrant wit...
778 2007-01-30 Photo of Iraqi soldiers arresting suspects near Najaf...
779 2007-01-31 Turner Broadcasting takes responsibility for an ad campaign that caused a terror scare today......
780 2007-01-31 In introducing its long article about Global Alpha, Goldman Sachs' highly secretive flagship hedge fund, Bloomberg News writer Richard Teitelbaum recounts how one of the fund's managers, Mark Carhart, recently made fun of Warren Buffett for insist...
781 2007-01-31 Ready or not, get ready for a new crop of famous faces....
782 2007-01-31 The New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange have sealed a pact that could point the world's two largest financial markets toward an eventual combination. The broad agreement will allow both sides to cooperate on joint developments, su...
783 2007-01-31 The owner of the hedge fund management firm Durus Capital Management was sentenced Tuesday to three years in prison and three years of supervised release, federal prosecutors said. Scott Sacane, who owned and controlled Durus, waived indictment in...
784 2007-01-31 Late last year, we tried a bit of an experiment called "Your Turn to Tell the Story." We're back to try it again based on our recent trip to Cambodia.

Stories can be told in countless ways and understood in countless forms. Here's an invitation to try your hand at a little interactive journalism.

Below are a series of links to columns, videos, and photographs from Cambodia where the scourge of modern-day slavery ensnares thousands of women. Also, there are links to reports from NGOs, background information and news from other sources that we found to be helpful during our reporting.

Take a look at the material and, if you're interested, we'd like to see how you would've told the story. Use some of the quotes, the stories, the facts and weave together your own column, essay, article -- or some other kind of quilt. We can imagine someone writing a poem, a song, making up a dance, creating a video or audio slide show. Don't let convention get in the way of your storytelling. And don't feel as if it needs to be long; hey, a haiku is sometimes more effective than an epic.

The image above, a multimedia panorama, is the handiwork of nytimes.com's Gabriel Dance. It's a great example of re-imagining the original work. In fact, so is the CNN report from Anderson Cooper's program.
785 2007-01-31 Over the last few years, many global securities exchanges have been radically transformed from sleepy not-for-profit membership organizations into for-profit, publicly traded technology hubs, as they have struggled to capture soaring trading volumes and increasingly complex financial products.

Few in number and somewhat monopoly-like in character, stock exchanges have proven attractive as investments. Shareholders have leapt at the opportunity to own what some see as toll roads for traders. Hedge funds, the private pools of capital that account for one-third to one-half of the daily trading volume on some exchanges, have been some of the biggest investors in the exchanges’ own shares.

Meanwhile, the exchanges themselves have been on a consolidation tear, gobbling one another up or striking alliances in pursuit of the liquidity that makes markets function well.

“The world is much smaller,” said Mr. Nishimuro. “Relationships between major exchanges should be defined better.” A link with the New York exchange, he said, “would give us great potential for the future.”

Where the he NYSE Group has succeeded in completing deals with Euronext N.V., the National Stock Exchange of India and, now, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Big Board’s chief American rival. Nasdaq, has run into trouble with its biggest overseas initiative, a hostile takeover bid for the London Stock Exchange. Resistance from L.S.E. executives has stalled the deal.

Today’s announcement may mean more to the Tokyo exchange, which plans to go public by the end of 2009, than to the Big Board. The Tokyo exchange is trying to restore its reputation after a series of embarrassing computer-related failures in late 2005 and early 2006 that briefly paralyzed trading, cost some brokerage houses millions in losses and led to the resignation of the exchange’s president.

Those problems undermined some investors’ faith in the Tokyo exchange, the largest and most sophisticated in Asia and the second-largest in the world after the New York.

The Tokyo exchange, which had been criticized for slowness in updating the aging, arcane computer systems that contributed to the failures, has promised to overhaul its trading system by late 2009, and has put off its planned initial public offering until then.

Analysts said that a desire for outside help in updating its technology may have been the Tokyo exchange’s main motive for the deal with the Big Board. “The T.S.E. is still trying to put its house back in order and regain investor confidence,” said Neil Katkov, a Tokyo-based analyst specializing in trading systems at Celent Communications. “A tie-up with a major foreign exchange makes them look competitive again.”

Analysts said that even after some improvements, the Tokyo exchange still faces a host of problems. First, they said, it is worrisome that the computer manufacturer chosen to build the new $300 million trading system, Fujitsu, is the same company that built the current problem-plagued system. Worse, they said, the new system still will not be as fast or as investor-friendly as the New York exchange’s current computers — and Nasdaq has persistently chided the NYSE Group for having antiquated and slow systems.

Even so, Tokyo has proven to be a very popular place to invest. Foreigners have been big net buyers of shares on the Tokyo exchange in recent years, drawn by rebounding stock and asset prices as Japan’s economy finally recovers from a long slump in the 1990s.

The benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index has doubled since the start of 2003, far outperforming the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which rose about 50 percent over the same period. The Nikkei 225 closed today at 17,490.19, close to a six-year high.

Analysts said the prospect for Tokyo stocks remained good, as Japan’s economy grows, profits rise and companies restructure to meet rising Chinese and other Asian competition. And pension-fund managers have lately been shifting more of Japan’s huge volumes of private savings into stocks to take advantage of the bull market.

These factors have stepped up trading volume on the Tokyo exchange to nearly match those in New York, despite the New York exchange’s 3-to-1 advantage in total market capitalization. On Monday, 1.49 billion shares were traded in Tokyo, compared with 1.54 billion on the New York exchange.

“This is the most liquid market in Asia,” said Kathy Matsui, chief strategist in Tokyo for Goldman Sachs. “Everybody and their brother around the world has had to have exposure in Japan.”

Today’s alliance will probably not be the Big Board’s final foray into Asia.The most important territory where the exchange does not yet have a role is China, Mr. Thain said today, perhaps hinting that China is next on its to-do list.

Mr. Thain has often said that he expects a steady evolution toward a small number of world exchanges that trade many kinds of securities and financial products. “We will be the first truly global marketplace,” he said, “but we will not be the only one.”
786 2007-01-31 Mr. Stern said investigators would seek to establish the true identities of the 13 people, most of whom are believed to use aliases. They include the four-member crew of the Boeing 737 that picked up Mr. Masri, a mechanic, and several other C.I.A. operatives in Macedonia, people familiar with the case said.

The issuing of an arrest warrant represents a major expansion of the legal assault on the C.I.A.’s rendition program in Europe. Italian prosecutors are seeking indictments against 25 C.I.A. operatives, as well as Italy’s former intelligence chief, for the kidnapping of a militant Egyptian cleric in 2003.

But the German case carries more weight, according to legal experts, because of the reputation of the courts here for painstaking deliberation, as well as the strong diplomatic ties between Germany and the United States.

It comes at a delicate time for both countries. The Bush administration has faced a drumbeat of criticism over its anti-terrorism policies since the Sept. 11 attacks, while the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has been eager to heal rifts in the trans-Atlantic alliance over the Iraq war.

“It is unique that a German court would issue warrants against 13 C.I.A. agents,” said Hans-Christian Ströbele, a Green Party member of a German parliamentary committee which is investigating the flights.

The case also has political implications within Germany, where the role of the German government in tolerating — or even facilitating — C.I.A. flights has come under increased scrutiny. Frankfurt Airport was used for many of the flights, as was the American air base at Ramstein.

Unlike Italy, Germany does not permit trials in absentia. And as a practical matter, it is unlikely that the Bush administration would acquiesce in the extradition to Germany of the 13 people covered by the arrest warrant. Still, the indictment could hinder the defendants’ ability to move around Europe.

A German radio station, NDR, published what it said were the names of the 13 people today, listing 11 men and two women. Mr. Stern declined to discuss the names, which have been picked up in other German news media.

The whereabouts of all 13 people is unknown, though a German television program, Panorama, tracked down three of them in North Carolina last September. They declined to comment to the program on their activities.

For Mr. Masri, who has had to overcome a tide of public skepticism about his account since it was first reported in The New York Times in early 2005, the court’s action is a significant reinforcement of the credibility of his claims, according to his lawyer, Manfred Gnjidic.

“This is unbelievably important for our case,” Mr. Gnjidic said in an interview. “It’s the first direct sign of the German government against the C.I.A. that they did the wrong thing.”

Mr. Masri, who is unemployed, lives in Neu-Ulm in southern Germany. Mr. Gnjidic said he had been buoyed by a statement of support from the former German interior minister, Otto Schily.

Mr. Masri has petitioned an American federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., to reinstate a lawsuit he filed against the C.I.A. Last May, a federal judge threw out the suit, accepting the government’s contention that it would impossible to try the case without revealing state secrets.

The Justice Department has declined to help the German prosecutors in their investigation, citing pending legal cases in the United States. This has made the Germans dependent on information from other sources, including journalists investigating the C.I.A. rendition program.

Mr. Stern, the prosecutor, said that a major break came from a Spanish reporter, who compiled a list of the names of people involved Mr. Masri’s abduction from sources in the Civil Guard, a Spanish paramilitary unit. The C.I.A. used the Spanish island of Majorca as a logistics center for its flights, Mr. Gnjidic said, and authorities found the names of members of the rendition team on hotel logs there.

Mr. Stern also credited tips from prosecutors in Milan and from Dick Marty, a Swiss senator who conducted an inquiry into the rendition program on behalf of the Council of Europe.

The nature of Germany’s role in Mr. Masri’s case, and in other C.I.A. flights, remains murky. Mr. Masri has claimed that when he was imprisoned in Kabul, he was interrogated three times by a German who identified himself as Sam.

Germany’s foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, has said he was not told of Mr. Masri’s abduction until June 2004, after Mr. Masri had been released in Albania. As chief of staff to the former chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, Mr. Steinmeier oversaw all German intelligence services.

Mr. Steinmeier is facing questions about his role in another case, involving a German-born Turkish man who was imprisoned for more than four years at the American military jail in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The man, Murat Kurnaz, was released by the United States last August after lengthy negotiations between Berlin and Washington. But internal German intelligence documents say that the Germans turned down an offer by the Americans to send Mr. Kurnaz home as early as 2002.

Mr. Steinmeier has insisted that the Americans never made an “official” offer to release Mr. Kurnaz. He has also noted that worries about security were running high in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks.

German newspapers have been full of speculation recently about whether the affair will cost Mr. Steinmeier his job.
787 2007-01-31 ESPN and the Tennis Channel agreed yesterday to share the rights to televise the French and Australian Opens, an arrangement that will bring a far higher profile to the Tennis Channel, which has 10 million subscribers.

Under the arrangement, ESPN2 will continue to show 120 hours of Australian Open coverage, but the Tennis Channel will augment it with about 100 more. For the French Open, whose rights the Tennis Channel acquired last August, it will carry 100 hours and ESPN2 will show 55.Ken Solomon, the chairman of the Tennis Channel, said talks that started with ESPN about sublicensing French Open rights soon evolved into a broader deal. “If it made sense for one, it made sense for more,” he said.

He added: “This is a game-changer for us. Having a second Grand Slam is of immeasurable value when we look for distribution. It builds our brand and it brings in a new audience.” The channel is available on some cable systems and the Dish Network. It recently announced a separate deal in which it sold a stake in itself to the United States Tennis Association.
788 2007-01-31 For others, the school “is a symbol of hope,” said Rita Rhoads, 53, a Mennonite who is a certified nurse midwife and helped in the births of some of the shooting victims. “We want the kids to just quietly show up one day and go to school normally.”

Four of the five girls who were wounded have returned to class. One remains in a coma and is being cared for at home, Ms. Rhoads said.

Confronted with tragedy, the Amish are taught to forgive and go on. And that is what the 2,700 residents of Bart Township have been trying to do since the attack, on Oct. 2. “People don’t fuss about it,” Mary Stoltzfus, 36, a member of the community, said outside Fisher’s Houseware and Fabrics. “It has calmed down.”

Ms. Rhoads said that although the victims’ families and friends had been devastated, “there’s no anger.”

“There is a lot of ‘why?’ ” she said. “But life goes on. The healing continues. It’s not to say they’re not sad. They are sad. They are mourning, but they’re doing well.”

The Amish and the non-Amish have given the widow of the gunman, Charles C. Roberts IV, and the couple’s three children comfort and unconditional support. Neighbors put up a Christmas tree at the local volunteer fire hall and decorated it with toys and gift cards for the family. Soccer players at Solanco High School in nearby Quarryville made it a point to show their encouragement by attending soccer matches played by the Robertses’ young son Brice.

Donations from around the world have poured into funds set up to help pay burial expenses for the dead and medical costs for the survivors, Ms. Rhoads said. A pregnant teacher at the school whom Mr. Roberts allowed to leave before he started shooting gave birth to a baby girl and named her after one of the youngest victims, Naomi Rose Ebersole, 7.

“The whole world has been great to us with their donations and support,” said Chief H. Curtis Woerth of the Bart Township Fire Company. The schoolhouse had been a mile from the fire station, and Chief Woerth’s eyes welled up as he recalled the day.

“Our hearts, they’ll never mend,” he said. “It’s just like it was yesterday to all of us. It’s what we’re trained to do, but when you sit in those classes all those hours, you never think it will be something so close to you.” Members of his department still receive counseling to help them deal with the shooting.

Rich Ressel, an emergency medical technician and a volunteer firefighter who was among the first to arrive at the school, said he was haunted each time he heard the sound of a horse-drawn buggy.

“I’ll never forget the pitter-patter of the horse hooves going down the street for the funerals,” Mr. Ressel said. “It was so quiet. We stood out front of the station when they went by. Every time I hear that, it brings me back to it.”

On the wall in a firehouse dining room is a watercolor of the schoolyard painted by a local artist, Elsie Beiler. Its title is “Happier Days,” and it depicts the Amish children of Nickel Mines playing, without a care, before the shooting. Five birds, which some say represent the dead girls, circle in the blue sky above.

Ms. Beiler said the fact that she knew some of the victims’ families had inspired her to paint the scene and to donate some of the money from the sale of prints to the victims’ fund. “I pray for the families of the children,” Ms. Beiler said. “And I thought about what a struggle it was for them to live out each day in forgiveness.”
789 2007-01-31 Whether the governor can get his budget through the Legislature remains to be seen. He is expected to try to take a hard line with the lawmakers on not adding to his spending proposals, a goal in which Mr. Pataki was often frustrated.

He is already at odds with Democrats who control the Assembly because of a bitter disagreement over picking a new state comptroller. And on Tuesday, battle lines were being drawn with the Republican-led Senate.

In a speech to county executives from around the state Tuesday morning, Mr. Spitzer said that he would keep his campaign pledge not to raise taxes and to cut property taxes by $6 billion over three years.

But not long after the governor spoke, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, fired some carefully aimed shots across the new administration’s bow during a press conference.

Tellingly, even on the topic of property tax cuts, a major priority of Senate Republicans, Mr. Bruno chose to emphasize the contrasts between his plan and the governor’s.

“We’re in different places in terms of timetable, we’re in different places in terms of who the recipients are,” he said. The Senate recently passed a property tax plan providing $6 billion of relief in two years, instead of three, as the governor is proposing. Mr. Spitzer’s plan is specifically designed to help the middle class, while the Senate prefers a broader approach.

The governor’s plan to overhaul the way the state allocates Medicaid money to health care providers will also likely be a flashpoint, because the Senate has close ties to health care workers’ unions and hospital groups that have been critical of proposed Medicaid cuts.

“I’m just concerned that everybody have affordable health care,” Mr. Bruno said.

He said he was also “very concerned” about the governor’s education agenda. Mr. Spitzer is proposing to increase state education spending by $7 billion annually within four years and to tie the increases to new accountability requirements for school districts.

“We have to make sure that the dollars that go into education don’t build a bureaucracy that is intended to look at accountability and methods. That’s what we have to be careful of,” Mr. Bruno said. “I’m concerned from what I heard, but I want to be fair. I don’t know until we see the specifics.”

He emphasized that the Senate was willing to increase spending on education — and, as if to illustrate the point, he made increasing spending on higher education the focus of his press conference on Tuesday.

Perhaps the biggest education battle, however, will be over the governor’s plan to overhaul the way state education aid is allocated to various regions, a touchy subject for the Senate, which is dominated by upstate and suburban Republicans, who want to make sure that their districts’ share of aid is not diminished.

On Monday, Mr. Spitzer, after announcing his education plan, said he expected resistance from the Legislature. “Does that mean there may be a battle?” he said. “You bet. It’s fine. We welcome it.”

Asked about the governor’s prediction, Mr. Bruno said, “He’s right, he’s absolutely right. He’s very astute.”

The governor’s plan for property tax cuts is aimed at the middle class, adding $6 billion over three years to the existing School Tax Relief program, known by the acronym STAR. Benefits under the plan decrease for upstate households with incomes exceeding $60,000 and households in New York City and its suburbs with incomes exceeding $80,000.

Some Senate Republicans criticized his proposal for not doing enough to help constituents with higher incomes.

“The governor is going to be talking about property tax cuts, the governor is going to be talking about reform, but all he’s doing is raising property taxes for our constituents,” said Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, who is the deputy majority leader.

The governor also said in his speech on Tuesday that he one of his goals was a full state takeover of Medicaid costs now borne by counties, a proposal that past governors have floated and that has long been the holy grail of local elected officials. Such a move would relieve localities of one of their biggest budget burdens. New York City, for example, will spend $5.2 billion on Medicaid during the next fiscal year, nearly one-tenth of the city’s budget.

Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the governor’s budget division, described Mr. Spitzer’s idea as “an aspirational goal” and said there was no timetable to take such action.
790 2007-01-31 The diversified manufacturer 3M posted a weaker-than-expected quarterly profit yesterday and said global economic growth was slowing, setting off a 5.1 percent decline in its share price.

The company, which makes products like Scotch tape, Post-it notes, Thinsulate insulation and other items, also forecast a 2007 profit that was below expectations.

3M’s chief executive, George Buckley, cited “slightly moderating economic growth worldwide.” He said 3M’s earnings growth would be slow in the first quarter, pick up in the second quarter and accelerate in the second half of the year.

3M executives cited the sluggish housing market in the United States as causing lower demand for products ranging from its optical films used in liquid-crystal-display televisions to roofing granules used in shingles for houses. The slowdown in roofing granules alone cost the company 5 cents a share in earnings over the second half of the year, Mr. Buckley said.

3M’s net income in the fourth quarter rose 58 percent, to $1.2 billion, or $1.57 a share, from $746 million, or 97 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding a $354 million gain, largely from the sale of its drug business, it earned $1.10 a share, 4 cents below analysts’ expectations.
791 2007-01-31 BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Jan. 30 (AP) — The owner of a hedge fund management firm was sentenced Tuesday to three years in prison and three years of supervised release, federal prosecutors said.

Scott Sacane, who owned and controlled Durus Capital Management, waived indictment in December 2005 and pleaded guilty to one count of violating the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Kevin J, O’Connor, United States attorney, said.

FromNovember 2002 to July 2003, Mr. Sacane, of Weston, Conn., manipulated the price of two biotechnology stocks by concealing purchases of the stocks through false filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. O’Connor said.

Mr. Sacane, 40, also failed to make required S.E.C. filings and made false statements to prevent others from selling stocks in the two companies, Mr. O’Connor said.

“This prosecution and the term of imprisonment imposed today should send a strong message to hedge fund managers,” O’Connor said in a statement.

Judge Alan H. Nevas of Federal District Court in Bridgeport, scheduled hearings for April 4 and April 5 to determine the restitution required of Mr. Sacane.
792 2007-01-31 Mr. Sander said yesterday that it was “far too early” to predict whether the rising costs would affect fares.

The alarm was raised in December, when the president of New York City Transit, Lawrence G. Reuter, in a memo to senior staff members, warned of more than $1.4 billion in cost increases in the long-term spending plan and said rising costs were “seriously undermining our ability to proceed with major portions of our program.”

It is not the first time in the authority’s history that officials have warned about changing economic conditions leading to unfulfilled promises, but longtime watchers of the authority said the magnitude of the problem highlighted in Mr. Reuter’s memo was unsettling.

“That isn’t chipping away,” said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a group that advocates for the needs of transit riders. “That’s cleaving. It’s a huge hole.”

The five-year plan, known as the 2005-9 capital program, includes so-called mega projects, like the Second Avenue subway, a Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central Terminal and an extension of the No. 7 subway line.

Mr. Russianoff said he was concerned that officials might push ahead with such high-profile undertakings while sacrificing some of the smaller projects needed to keep the transit system in good shape, like buying new subway and rail cars and making station repairs.

In his memo, Mr. Reuter said the cost increases put the transit agency’s basic goal of maintaining a state of good repair in the subway and bus system “in jeopardy” and could force it “to delay long overdue investments.”

Mr. Sander, however, said he would protect the system’s basic needs, calling them “the first priority of the M.T.A.”

Mr. Reuter’s memo dealt with the portion of the long-term spending program administered by New York City Transit, which runs the subways and buses. His agency accounts for more than half the authority’s overall capital program, with $11.2 billion in projects that involve things that riders see every day, like subway station renovations, and less visible matters, like track repair.

In his memo, Mr. Reuter warned that the agency’s estimate of cost increases could go much higher. Citing an inflation rate for large construction projects of 1 percent a month, he said that if that trend continued, “we stand to lose a full year or more of the current five-year program.” That could translate to cost increases of more than $2 billion.

Mr. Reuter, who is retiring next month after more than 10 years as head of New York City Transit, refused through a spokesman to be interviewed.

Officials at the authority said part of the problem they have encountered in recent months was that projects are attracting fewer bidders than they expected.

This is believed to be because some contractors already have all the work they can handle. But it may also be because the authority is in the process of seeking bids for the mega-projects, which are worth billions of dollars. Transit and industry officials say contractors may be refraining from bidding on smaller contracts because they hope to win at least part of a larger contract, perhaps as a subcontractor. Either way, when contracts attract fewer bidders, contractors feel less pressure to bid lower.

A prime example is a project for the renovation of a large subway car repair facility in Upper Manhattan, known as the 207th Street overhaul shop. Only one company bid, and its offer of $379 million was close to $100 million more than the cost estimated by transit officials. The bid was rejected and officials are considering whether to proceed.

The problems go well beyond subways and buses, however.

Tom Bach, the chief engineer for the authority’s bridges and tunnels division, said yesterday that it was “frightening” to open the bids in October from three established contractors for extensive work on the Cross Bay Veterans Memorial Bridge in Queens and find all the bids substantially over the estimate of about $55 million. The bids ranged from $74.9 million to $86.5 million.

As a result, the bids were set aside, and officials decided to split the project into two pieces. The authority will seek bids on one portion later this year and defer the rest of the work until after 2009. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North have also seen cost increases.

Mr. Bach said that his division had yet to award contracts for what had been estimated as $400 million worth of projects under the capital program, and that he now expected the work to cost $40 million more.

Mr. Sander said the authority would explore a number of ways to hold the spending plan together. That could include splitting more projects into smaller pieces in hopes of drawing more bidders into the process.

“We need to see if we can drive costs down,” Mr. Sander said. “We need to review the existing scope for these projects to make sure they’re not gold-plated, and we have to see if there are additional revenue sources to support any uncontrollable cost increases in these projects.”

With questions emerging over the long-term spending plan, Mr. Sander has assumed control of an authority that now appears to be facing a twofold financial quandary. The agency’s day-to-day operating budget — which is administered separately from the long-term financing — is expected to have a surplus this year, but projections call for large operating deficits beginning next year.
793 2007-01-31 Oil prices settled just below $57 a barrel yesterday — a gain of almost $3 — and the price of natural gas soared more than 11 percent on expectations of more arctic weather in the United States.

Light crude for March delivery jumped $2.96, to settle at $56.97 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices reached as high as $57.05 during trading before falling back.

The March contract for Brent crude oil at the ICE Futures exchange in London settled at $56.39 a barrel, up $2.71.

Natural gas soared more than 80 cents, or 11.6 percent, to settle at $7.740 per 1,000 cubic feet on the New York exchange.

“People were digging their spurs into it; this is just a lot of people running to get out of the way of the rally,” said Tim Evans, energy analyst at Citigroup Global Markets. “There wasn’t a lot of foresight, not a lot of calculation to it. It’s just a reaction to the cold weather.”

Seven-day forecasts yesterday predicted that temperatures would dip below zero in the Midwest, the heart of the natural gas market, said Phil Flynn, an analyst at the Alaron Trading Corporation in Chicago.

Colder-than-normal temperatures are also expected through mid-February in the Northeast, which is responsible for 80 percent of the country’s heating oil consumption.
794 2007-01-31 Bob Casullo, who recruited Harrison to Syracuse, saw it in the slight, silent high school receiver from Philadelphia. Casullo watched Harrison play for Roman Catholic High School in the Catholic League Championship game during his junior year. Casullo remembers Harrison catching a touchdown pass, running for another and intercepting a pass as a defensive back.

His reaction then was what it would be now: nothing.

Casullo made an appeal to Harrison’s distaste for promotion. He told Harrison he would call him once a week, at the same time every week, and that would be the only time Harrison would have to talk to him. It was a relief from the relentless telephone calls during recruiting season, and it appealed to Harrison’s personality.

“You hear about opposites,” said Casullo, who is now the tight ends coach for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. “The Terrell Owenses, the Randy Mosses. He’s very respectful of the other person’s talent. He would never do what Reggie Bush did to Urlacher, not out of fear, but because he respects how hard Urlacher plays. He knows he’s good, but he doesn’t need to tell everyone. He’s just going to let recognition come as it is.”

Inevitably, it does. Casullo was driving to Roman Catholic High one afternoon when he got stuck in heavy traffic on the highway that runs near the school. Panicked that he would miss his chance to visit with Harrison, he asked a nearby police officer if there was an accident. No, he was told, just a race between two kids at the school.

That race has added to Harrison’s reputation, a footrace against the fastest kid in the school, a sprinter who, the story goes, was the 100-meter state champion. The question had been asked at the small all-boys school: Who was faster, Harrison or the champ? And so the entire school — the faculty and the students — flooded out in front of the school on Broad and Vine Streets. Harrison won, making him the unofficial fastest high schooler in Pennsylvania.

At Syracuse, Harrison became one of the nation’s top receivers. He was so good that when Syracuse had a three-way quarterback competition one year (Donovan McNabb won the job), Harrison took aside one of the losers, Kevin Johnson, and persuaded him not to transfer by promising he would teach him how to be a receiver. Johnson was a second-round pick in 1999, and was most recently with the Lions in 2005.

Harrison, who ran a blistering 4.38 in the 40-yard dash as a senior, was the 19th overall pick in 1996, part of the greatest wide receiver class in history, led by the No. 1 pick, Keyshawn Johnson. “If he were as outgoing and vocal as Keyshawn, he’d be in every magazine and every front page,” said Gil Brandt, the former vice president for player personnel of the Dallas Cowboys who is now an analyst for NFL.com.

Harrison has turned out to be the best of that class and could someday challenge almost all of Jerry Rice’s receiving records. His longevity is particularly remarkable in the era of big wide receivers and bruising safeties because Harrison remains slight, listed at 6 feet and 185 pounds but perhaps a few pounds lighter. Harrison has learned how to turn his body to avoid taking the brunt of hits, prolonging his career and his ability to run after the catch.

That was a gift that Rice, who played 21 seasons, also had. Casullo said he knew how long Harrison planned to play, but would not say. On Tuesday, Harrison would only say that he had plenty of years left.

One thing is certain. Whether he stays long enough to break Rice’s records, Harrison will not follow Rice on his second career path.

“ ‘Dancing With the Stars’ — no way he would ever do that,” Casullo said. “He might not even be in the audience to watch someone else do it.”
795 2007-01-31 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 8.20, at 1,428.82, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 7.55, to 2,448.64. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 4.87, or 0.61 percent, at 797.97. As oil prices shot higher, stock investors brushed off worries about fuel costs crimping consumers’ discretionary spending and instead focused on a possible swell in oil companies’ profits.

In response to energy prices, Exxon Mobil rose $1.19, to $74.39; Chevron rose $1.54, to $73.07; and ConocoPhillips rose $1.03, to $65.65.

Motorola, the cellphone maker, rose $1.27, to $19.58, after Mr. Icahn revealed his stake in the company and expressed interest in joining the board.

The drug maker Merck fell 60 cents, to $44.91, after the company posted a 58 percent decline in quarterly profit, hurt by revamping charges and increased legal reserves linked to the withdraw of the painkiller Vioxx.

The 3M Company, which makes products such as Post-it notes and Scotch tape, said profit jumped 58 percent on a large gain on the sale of its pharmaceutical business. But after stripping out that gain, the company — often considered a barometer of American business health — missed Wall Street expectations. Its shares fell $4.26, or 5.4 percent, to $74.70.

Mr. Goldman said the Dow would have been about 30 points higher if not for 3M’s disappointing results. Over all, corporate earnings have been coming in fairly strong.

“Fourth-quarter earnings are running 10.5 percent ahead of last year. It’s a good increase, but we’ve been spoiled,” Mr. Goldman said, adding that investors grew accustomed last year to higher double-digit earnings, but that the average gain is about 7 percent.

Hugh A. Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisers, said that gains were held in check by concern about the statement that will accompany the Fed’s decision today.

“It appears to me as though the economy is stronger than they expected, and many governors have stated concerns about inflation,” Mr. Johnson said. If that is reflected in the Fed’s statement, he said, it may be difficult for the stock market because a rate increase later in the year could curb consumer spending.

The bond market edged lower yesterday as fixed-income investors also awaited the Fed’s decision. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, to 983/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.87 percent, from 4.89 percent.

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of four-week bills.
796 2007-01-31 The document was given to the city’s Planning Commission on Tuesday, and more meetings will be held to discuss it.

The plan avoids the recommendation that caused the downfall of an earlier recovery blueprint: that potentially dangerous areas, those most vulnerable to flooding, be turned into “green space” or left undeveloped.

That idea was rejected a year ago by the city’s mayor, C. Ray Nagin, after some citizens criticized it as racist and its genesis by outside planning experts as elitist. The new document, more populist both in ideas and in conception, appears carefully designed not to anger citizens here. Already given informal sanction by officials, it calls for giving incentives to homeowners, for instance, to raise their homes or to resettle in “clusters,” but it contains no mandates that they do so.

Unlike the earlier document, the plan rejects reducing the size of New Orleans, “shrinking the footprint,” a phrase that became a red flag to outraged citizen groups here.

“From this plan’s standpoint, there’s no likelihood it will have a smaller footprint,” Troy Henry, one of the consultants who worked on the plan, said at a news conference Tuesday. “We have not green-spaced any neighborhoods.”

Darren Diamond, another consultant, said, “We are giving incentives in all areas.”

Individual neighborhoods have also developed their own recovery plans, and consultants on Tuesday were careful to say that the Unified New Orleans Plan did not supersede these efforts.

Much of the language of the new planning document is nonspecific and expresses generalized hopes for New Orleans rather than mandates. But it also appears to reflect the city’s current patchy repopulation, in which some of the fears of the earlier, rejected team of planners are being realized.

Some neighborhoods, for instance, are already showing what was referred to by the earlier planners as the “jack-o’-lantern” effect: individual houses that have been reoccupied but are surrounded by a sea of blight, or abandonment.

One part of the new plan, much insisted on by the consultants Tuesday, appears to address that phenomenon by calling for incentives for homeowners and small businesses to encourage the creation of “sustainable clusters within their neighborhoods.”
797 2007-01-31 Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive reported profits yesterday that exceeded analysts’ estimates on consumer demand for new razors and soap and increased sales to emerging markets.

Procter & Gamble, the largest American maker of consumer products, said net income increased 12 percent, to $2.86 billion, or 84 cents a share. The company raised its 2007 profit forecast on demand for Fusion razors and Tide detergent. Colgate said separately that profit rose 11 percent, to $401.2 million, on record sales in Latin America.

The companies introduced dozens of new products to entice customers in North America, and sales in countries like China have increased as consumers’ incomes expand.

“Emerging markets are an important part of growth for these companies,” said Mariann Montagne, an analyst with Thrivent Asset Management in Minneapolis, which oversees $100 billion, including shares of both companies. “Population growth and rising disposable incomes make these very attractive markets.”

Sales at Procter, which is based in Cincinnati, rose 7.6 percent, to $19.7 billion, the slowest pace in five quarters. The company had projected sales growth of 5 percent to 8 percent. Sales at Colgate, based in New York, gained 10 percent, to $3.21 billion.
798 2007-01-31 ElkCorp, a maker of roofing and building products, said yesterday that it planned to accept a bid for the company from Building Materials Corporation of America and terminate a planned sale to the private equity firm Carlyle Group.

ElkCorp’s board has determined that the bid of $43.50 a share by Building Materials is superior to Carlyle’s offer of $42, ElkCorp, which is based in Dallas, said.

Carlyle, based in Washington, and closely held Building Materials began the bidding war on Jan. 5 when Building Materials told ElkCorp’s board in a letter that it was frustrated that ElkCorp had agreed to be purchased by Carlyle for $38 without giving it a chance to raise its bid. Carlyle twice increased its bid since then and Building Materials topped the latest offer on Jan. 23.

ElkCorp said it issued a notice of intention to terminate its planned sale to Carlyle. The notice is subject to a five-day waiting period, and ElkCorp also must pay a termination fee of $29 million to Carlyle, which Building Materials has agreed to reimburse.

Shares of ElkCorp fell 43 cents, to $43.57, on the New York Stock Exchange.
799 2007-01-31 Future plans call for building as many as three structures on land outside the high-security gate. A new “light security” gate would set off this office park, intended for high-tech companies with projects that might benefit from use of the $1.5 billion worth of special equipment — some of it one-of-a-kind — housed on the base, and whose work might, in turn, benefit the military.

The new offices and lab space might also attract companies that begin as “seed labs” inside the base enclosure and then expand their products to commercial use, said David Banashefski, who is chief of asset and technology capitalization for the base and the military’s representative on the development project. Some companies might maintain offices or labs both inside and outside the high-security area, he said.

The Advance Realty Group, which is based in Bedminster, N.J., the real estate firm handling the development project, said it expected that demand for space would come from research universities as well as communications, electronics, nanotechnology and emerging technology companies from around the world.

Working through its Forge Technology affiliate, Advance Realty took a 50-year ground lease on the 120 acres, where it will build the office and lab space. The Army negotiated the deal through InSitech Inc., a nonprofit company set up to spur development of technologies that have both military and commercial uses.

Military officials decided some years ago to pursue a policy of “base optimization” — making the most of the land and technology resources at Picatinny — according to the base’s commander, Maj. Gen. Paul S. Izzo.

He said the 50-year lease included a revenue-sharing agreement with InSitech and Advance that could reap as much as $500 million for the arsenal over the next half-century.

Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, a Republican from the district that includes Picatinny, said “this agreement just may become a model for other bases.”

At a time that the federal government is generally trying to reduce costs at its military bases, and closing some operations, Mr. Frelinghuysen said, enterprise arrangements may represent a lifeline at some locations.

Margaret Nordstrom, the director of the Morris County Board of Freeholders, said local officials had been quite happy with the way Picatinny was trying to revitalize and interact with the civilian community. The water park, built about six years ago, was one contribution. General Izzo was honored this month by the county Chamber of Commerce for his community work, Ms. Nordstrom said.

More than 1,600 military researchers and scientists currently work at the base, as part of what is called the Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center. In concert with military contractors, they develop and test all types of ordnance for the Army — for example, a remote firing system deployed to troops in Iraq in 2005 that allows gunners to operate from inside a Humvee.

The Picatinny rail, a widely used bracket for mounting telescopic sights on firearms, was also developed at the base.

Mr. Banashefski said more than 90 percent of the Army’s armaments had been developed, procured or deployed through Picatinny.

Much of the work done for the military is classified, of course. Mr. Banashefski did, however, describe a research project that makes use of sensor equipment. The equipment is mounted on a lift that permits it to process a range of information to detect a hostile presence.

“This is the type of specialized equipment that many developing companies might find highly desirable to have access to in their research,” he said.

Last month, Mr. Banashefski also said, the Army broke ground for a new $11 million pyrotechnics lab and manufacturing plant at Picatinny. Pyrotechnical devices are used to light up battlefields and send up decoy flares for enemy missiles, but may have more generalized uses as well.
800 2007-01-31 “If it harms this quarter or next quarter, that is not a big deal,” Mr. Brozak said of the acquisition. “We believe that they have invested time and money in finding key acquisitions for new research areas that can return the company to industry leadership.”

Merck said revenue increased 5 percent, to $6.04 billion, from $5.77 billion a year earlier. Analysts had been expecting sales of $5.37 billion.

Richard T. Clark, chairman and chief executive, told analysts during a conference call that the sales gains “were achieved despite facing the largest patent loss in our history,” a reference to Zocor, a cholesterol drug that had been Merck’s top seller. Zocor lost patent protection in June, and its sales fell 65 percent, to $379 million, by the fourth quarter.

Sales of Zetia and Vytorin, newer cholesterol drugs that Merck sells with Schering-Plough, jumped 46 percent, to $1.1 billion, in the quarter. Four relatively new vaccines brought in a total of $482 million, including $155 million for Gardasil, which wards off the virus causing cervical cancer.

Sales of Singulair and of the related blood pressure drugs Cozaar and Hyzaar both rose by double digits, but sales of Merck’s other top drug, Fosamax, were flat.

Charges for severance programs, site closings and other costs totaled $222 million in the quarter and $936 million for the year. Merck eliminated 900 jobs in the fourth quarter and has cut 4,800 jobs out of the 7,000 set to be scrapped by the end of 2008.

The company said it added $75 million to its Vioxx legal defense fund in the quarter; it has reserved $1.64 billion to date. It set aside another $48 million to start a legal defense reserve for the more than 100 lawsuits contending that Fosamax destroys bone in the jaw.

For 2007, Merck repeated its forecast for earnings of $2.51 to $2.59 a share, excluding 10 to 15 cents for restructuring charges. Analysts on average are expecting $2.60, excluding charges.

Merck shares fell 60 cents in regular trading, to $44.91, on the New York Stock Exchange.

For the full year, Merck posted net income of $4.43 billion, or $2.03 a share, down 4 percent from $4.63 billion, or $2.10 a share, in 2005. Revenue totaled $22.64 billion, up 3 percent.
801 2007-01-31 Mr. Judt, whose views on Israel and the American Jewish lobby have frequently drawn fire, is chastised for what Mr. Rosenfeld calls “a series of increasingly bitter articles” that have “called Israel everything from arrogant, aggressive, anachronistic, and infantile to dysfunctional, immoral, and a primary cause of present-day anti-Semitism.”

A historian at New York University, Mr. Judt said in a telephone interview that he believed the real purpose of outspoken denunciations of him and others was to stifle harsh criticism of Israel. “The link between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism is newly created,” he said, adding that he fears “the two will have become so conflated in the minds of the world” that references to anti-Semitism and the Holocaust will come to be seen as “just a political defense of Israeli policy.”

The essay also takes to task “Wrestling With Zion: Progressive Jewish-American Responses to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict” (Grove Press), a 2003 collection of essays edited by Mr. Kushner and Alisa Solomon. Mr. Kushner said that he and Ms. Solomon took great care to include a wide range of voices in their collection, including those of Ms. Rich, the playwright Arthur Miller and various rabbis.

“Most Jews like me find this a very painful subject,” Mr. Kushner said, and are aware of the rise in vicious anti-Semitism around the world but feel “it’s morally incumbent upon us to articulate questions and reservations.”

Over the telephone, the dinner table and the Internet, people who follow Jewish issues have been buzzing over Mr. Rosenfeld’s article. Alan Wolfe, a political scientist and the director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College, said, “I’m almost in a state of shock” at the verbal assaults directed at liberal Jews.

On H-Antisemitism (h-net.org), an Internet forum for scholarly discussions of the subject, Michael Posluns, a political scientist at the University of Toronto, wrote, “Sad and misbegotten missives of the sort below make me wonder if it is not the purpose of mainstream Jewish organizations to foster anti-Jewishness by calling down all who take from their Jewish experience and Jewish thought a different ethos and different ways of being as feeding anti-Semitism.”

Others have praised Mr. Rosenfeld’s indictment and joined the fray. Shulamit Reinharz, a sociologist who is also the wife of Jehuda Reinharz, the president of Brandeis University, wrote in a column for The Jewish Advocate in Boston: “Most would say that they are simply anti-Zionists, not anti-Semites. But I disagree, because in a world where there is only one Jewish state, to oppose it vehemently is to endanger Jews.”

Although many of the responses to the essay have referred to its subject as “Jewish anti-Semitism,” Mr. Rosenfeld said in a telephone interview that he was very careful not to use that phrase. But whatever it is called, he said, “I wanted to show that in an age when anti-Semitism is resurgent, Jews thinking the way they’re thinking is feeding into a very nasty cause.”

In his essay he says that “one of the most distressing features of the new anti-Semitism” is “the participation of Jews alongside it.” Like others, Mr. Cohen of The Washington Post complained that the essay cherry-picked quotations. “He mischaracterized what I wrote,” he said. “I’ve been critical of Israel at times, but I’ve always been a defender of Israel.” He did add, however, that a wide range of writers were named, some of whom have written inflammatory words about Israel. “He has me in a very strange neighborhood,” Mr. Cohen said.

The dispute goes beyond the familiar family squabbling among Jews that is characterized by the old joke about two Jews having three opinions on a single subject. Bitter debates over anti-Israel statements and anti-Semitism have entangled government officials, academics, opinion-makers and others over the past year, particularly since fervent supporters and tough critics of Israel can be found on the right and the left.

Mr. Wolfe, who has written about a recent rise in what he calls “Jewish illiberalism,” traces the heated language to increasing opposition to the Iraq war and President Bush’s policy in the Middle East, which he said had spurred liberal Jews to become more outspoken about Israel.

“Events in the world have sharpened a sense of what’s at stake,” he said. “Israel is more isolated than ever,” causing American Jewish defenders of Israel to become more aggressive.

On this point Mr. Rosenfeld and Mr. Wolfe are in agreement. “It’s going up a notch or four or five,” Mr. Rosenfeld said in an interview. “One of the things that is clear,” he said of anti-Semitic and anti-Israel attacks, “is that what used to be on the margin and not very serious is becoming more and more mainstream.”

Mr. Rosenfeld, who has written and edited more than half a dozen books as well as other publications for the committee, emphasized that policy disagreements were natural and expected. Opposing Israel’s settlement of the West Bank or treatment of Palestinians “is, in itself, not anti-Semitic,” he writes; it is questioning Israel’s right to exist that crosses the line.

But Mr. Judt said, “I don’t know anyone in a respectable range of opinion who thinks Israel shouldn’t exist.” (Mr. Judt advocates a binational state that is not exclusively Jewish, something that many Jews see as equivalent to dissolving Israel). He contends that harsh complaints about Israel’s treatment of Palestinians are the real target.

Last year Mr. Judt came to the defense of two prominent political scientists, Stephen M. Walt at Harvard and John J. Mearsheimer of the University of Chicago, after they were besieged for publishing a paper that baldly stated (among other things) that anyone critical of Israel or the American Jewish lobby “stands a good chance of being labeled an anti-Semite.”

David Singer, the committee’s director of research, said the attention Mr. Rosenfeld’s essay had drawn was not unexpected. “We certainly thought that it would raise eyebrows in some quarters,” he said.

“I think it’s an act of courage” on the part of the American Jewish Committee and the author, he added. “It obviously deals with matters of great sensitivity.”
802 2007-01-31 Our reaction to Ashley’s treatment is moral intuition telling us that it’s wrong. We should not, as Peter Singer does, use reason to gloss over that insight and rationalize that it’s justified. The parents wanted to make Ashley’s body continue to match her mental age. But that treats her as an object to be “designed,” not as a natural person to be respected whatever her state.

This is where human dignity comes in. The two radically opposed versions are intrinsic human dignity (we have dignity just because we are human); and extrinsic human dignity (Peter Singer’s version), dignity conferred on us by others. Ashley “is precious not so much for what she is, but because her parents and siblings love her and care about her.”

Extrinsic human dignity says that below a certain level of mental or physical functioning, we don’t merit dignity and its protections.

A society’s “ethical tone” is set not by how it treats its most powerful citizens, but by how it treats its weakest and most vulnerable — its Ashleys.

The writer is founding director of the Center for Medicine, Ethics and Law at McGill University.
803 2007-01-31 A recipe for broiled steak with pineapple and onion salsa....
804 2007-01-31 GREAVES--Jemima K. Gone 12 years, yet always present in our hearts. The Johnson Family...
805 2007-01-31 MOYNIHAN--Jeremiah A. On January 27, 2007, native of Raheen East, Rathmore Cnty, Kerry, Ireland. Retired New York Times Paperhandler Foreman. Beloved husband of Maureen (nee Joyce). Devoted father of Brian and his wife Natasha and Kathleen Regan a...
806 2007-01-31 To the Editor:     Re ''A Convenient Truth'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 26):     Our reaction to Ashley's treatment is moral intuition telling us that it's wrong. We should not, as Peter Singer does, use reason to gloss over that insight and rationalize that it...
807 2007-01-31 INVESTING IN SMOKING -- The future of cigarettes appears to be brighter than ever. That is the message investors are sending as the Altria Group, the former Philip Morris, prepares to spin off its Kraft Foods division and become primarily a tobacc...