1 2012-08-01 A University of Texas law professor focused on conflict of interest reviews the flap over the university's recent fracking report....
2 2012-08-01 Up Next in Business
3 2012-08-01 Two new restaurants make the Nordic city a new destination for adventurous dining....
4 2012-08-01 At a ribbon-cutting ceremony at Chobani's first retail store, Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy paid tribute to the state's booming Greek yogurt industry....
5 2012-08-01 "Electric Cord" was sent out for cleaning in 1970 and never returned....
6 2012-08-01 If a bank won't lend you money, the good news is that there are now lots of other options. You know the bad news....
7 2012-08-01 The admission by Sanford I. Weill, the creator of Citigroup, that megabanks should be broken up, seems to be costing him absolutely nothing in fashionable society....
8 2012-08-01 Credit Suisse on Wednesday named David DeNunzio, one of its veteran deal makers, as the global chairman of its mergers and acquisitions group. The news follows the departure of Steven Koch to serve as a deputy mayor of Chicago....
9 2012-08-01 A setback for efforts to hold Wall Street accountable. | Online poker sites to forfeit millions. | India's booming TV business....
10 2012-08-01 Up Next in Business Day Live
11 2012-08-01 Spending on mobile ads is growing, particularly in the United States, but still represents only 1 percent of ad spending worldwide....
12 2012-08-01 Seeking to pierce one of President Obama's strongest arguments, Mitt Romney highlights an auto dealer who lost his business after the bailout. A new Obama spot also hits a traditional Republican strength: military spending....
13 2012-08-01 Frustrated by Europe and dried-up markets, Louis M. Bacon says he will give back $2 billion, about one-quarter of the size of his benchmark Moore Global Investment fund....
14 2012-08-01 When Apple acquired AuthenTec last week, neither company issued a statement or a news release on the deal, which underscores the hard bargaining tactics of the technology giant....
15 2012-08-01 The British bank bucked the industry trend of weak earnings, reporting that its net income jumped 11 percent in the first half of the year on strength in Asia and other emerging markets....
16 2012-08-01 The Maple Group, a consortium of Canadian financial firms and pension funds, acquired 91 percent of the shares in the TMX Group, securing its $3.7 billion buyout of the Canadian bourse....
17 2012-08-01 Steven Koch, Credit Suisse's co-chairman of mergers and acquisitions, will leave his perch at the Swiss bank to become a deputy mayor of Chicago in Rahm Emanuel's administration....
18 2012-08-01 Rackspace, facing much bigger rivals in Microsoft, Google, and Amazon, is making a big commitment to open source, and alliances with the enemies of its enemies....
19 2012-08-01 The Chevron Corporation failed on Tuesday to persuade a federal judge in New York to find an $18.2 billion judgment by an Ecuadorean court unenforceable, but the judge left an injunction against the award in place pending further litigation.

The judge, Lewis A. Kaplan of United States District Court in Manhattan, declined to rule on Chevron’s request, saying it remained to be seen whether the judgment was based on fraudulent evidence.

The oil company is suing lawyers for Ecuadorean plaintiffs who claim Chevron is responsible for pollution in the Amazon rain forest, contending that they fabricated evidence in the case in violation of racketeering laws.

Judge Kaplan said the questions still to be resolved included whether the judgment was enforceable under New York law.

As part of his ruling, Judge Kaplan found an expert report recommending billions in damages against Chevron was potentially fraudulent.

In March 2011, Chevron won an extension of a temporary order barring enforcement of the judgment while the racketeering case was litigated. “This ruling clears the way for Chevron to challenge the enforceability of the judgment in the Southern District of New York,” Justin Higgs, a spokesman for Chevron, said in an e-mailed statement.
20 2012-08-01 Texas Rangers pitcher Neftali Feliz needs Tommy John surgery to repair a tear in his right elbow and will probably be sidelined until next summer.

The two-time American League champion Rangers said Feliz would have surgery Wednesday. On Tuesday, the A.L. West leaders acquired Ryan Dempster from the Chicago Cubs.

Feliz was 3-1 with a 3.16 earned run average in eight games, including seven starts. He has been on the disabled list since May, when his elbow was diagnosed with a ligament sprain.

“It’s a blow for him and for the club,” General Manager Jon Daniels said. “We all felt like he was making strides as a starter.

“It’ll be a challenge for him, but the nature of the injury, guys do come back. The success rates are high.”
21 2012-08-01 At a time when abortion rights and women’s access to affordable contraception are threatened by political attacks, judges in three newly decided federal cases failed to preserve constitutional protections for women.

On Monday, Judge James Teilborg of the United States District Court in Phoenix upheld an Arizona law signed by Gov. Jan Brewer in April that bans all abortion procedures at 20 weeks from a woman’s last menstrual period, which is about 18 weeks after fertilization.

It is the most aggressive of the previability abortion bans passed recently by a handful of states. It defies binding Supreme Court precedent that prevents states from banning abortions before a fetus can survive outside the womb, which generally occurs at about 24 weeks.

To get around that pesky barrier, Judge Teilborg erroneously characterized Arizona’s outright ban as a permissible “regulation” that limits only “some” previability abortions. To make that argument, he relied, in part, on the fact that the ban contains a dangerously narrow exception for a “medical emergency.”

The judge also found the state had valid reason to enact the statute, embracing medically dubious claims about when a fetus can begin to feel pain. He was dismissive of realistic concerns that the law endangers women who develop life- or health-threatening medical problems late in pregnancy and that severe fetal abnormalities sometimes cannot be diagnosed before 20 weeks.
22 2012-08-01 Relentless assaults on America’s computer networks by China and other foreign governments, hackers and criminals have created an urgent need for safeguards to protect these vital systems. The question now is whether the Senate will provide them. Senator John McCain, a Republican of Arizona, and the Chamber of Commerce have already exacted compromises from sponsors of a reasonably strong bill, and are asking for more. Their demands should be resisted and the original bill approved by the Senate.

Officials and experts have warned about cybersecurity dangers for years; now the alarms are more insistent. On Thursday, Gen. Keith Alexander, the chief of the United States Cyber Command and the director of the National Security Agency, said  intrusions against computers that run essential infrastructure increased 17-fold from 2009-11 and that it’s only a matter of time before an attack causes physical damage. He has also called the loss of industrial information and intellectual property through cyberespionage “the greatest transfer of wealth in history.”

American officials say businesses already lose billions of dollars annually. Hundreds of major companies, defense contractors and government agencies have been affected. Attacks on power plants, electric grids, refineries, transportation networks and water treatment systems present an even greater threat. Last year, there were at least 200 attempted or successful cyberattacks on those facilities.

Yet defenses are dangerously thin. On a scale of 1 to 10, General Alexander rated preparedness for a large-scale cyberattack — shutting down the stock exchange, for instance — as “around a 3.” That is why President Obama and others have argued for mandatory minimum standards that would require companies to share information and harden computer protections.

Bipartisan legislation drafted by Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent and the chairman of the homeland security committee, and Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the ranking Republican member, met that bar. But faced with strong opposition from Mr. McCain and the business community, the sponsors compromised. Under the revised bill, industry will develop the standards for addressing threats and compliance will be voluntary.

This has not satisfied Mr. McCain or the chamber, which insists the bill would still be too costly and cumbersome. Last year, a survey of more than 9,000 executives in more than 130 countries by the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting firm found that only 13 percent of those polled had taken adequate defensive action against cyberthreats.
23 2012-08-01 Mr. Bloomberg’s national coalition, Mayors Against Illegal Guns, ranked Georgia as having the 10th highest rate of crime-gun exports in 2009. In 2006, New York sued 28 gun dealers who had sold guns used in hundreds of crimes in the city. Eight of those dealers were from Georgia.

The mayor’s office, for its part, was unapologetic when informed of the sale.

John Feinblatt, the mayor’s chief policy adviser and the lead architect of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, said Mr. Bloomberg stood behind the sale and would allow similar sales in the future.

“He believes, as do all members of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, that our purpose is to keep guns out of the hands of criminals, not keep guns or ammunition away from law-abiding citizens,” Mr. Feinblatt said. “There’s a big distinction between legal dealers and illegal dealers and criminals and law-abiding citizens.

“We’re about crime control. We’re not about gun control.”

Mr. Feinblatt said dealers in guns and ammunition in Georgia should not all be painted with a “broad brush” because of those who have acted illegally. He said he did not know whether any background check was done on Georgia Arms before the sale.

The sale to an ammunition store appears to be new ground for the city. The previous four sales of shell casings dating to 2010, based on the data available on Tuesday, were to scrap metal companies in . In all cases, the shells were sold to the highest bidder, as the city says is required by law. There has been one sale of shell casings since the Georgia sale, and it was to a scrap metal company.

The shell casings come from the Police Department’s firearms and tactics section in Rodman’s Neck in the , where officers shoot on a firing range. At the end of a shooting session, officers gather their spent shell casings and drop them in large barrels. When enough barrels are filled, they are given, like much of the city’s scrap and surplus, to the city’s Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which buys, manages and maintains property for the city.

An invitation for bids for 28,800 pounds of “once-fired assorted caliber cartridge cases” was advertised in the publication The City Record for several days in May and June. Georgia Arms bought the cases for $69,696 on June 5, according to the department.

In past sales, the scrap metal companies paid a bit less, $59,040 to $67,680, for loads of casings, said Julianne Cho, a spokeswoman for administrative services.

Georgia Arms does not sell guns, only ammunition and supplies. It has not been the subject of any criminal investigation, said Wayne Smith, a special agent in charge with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. The company has bought casings from the military.

It is in rural Villa Rica, Ga., about 40 miles west of . A sign on the door reads: “No solicitors means no solicitors. Remember this is an ammunition company.” Bullets marked “factory loaded” are under a glass counter for sale to walk-in customers. A clerk behind the counter said he did not know how much of the store’s supply came from New York.

The owner of Georgia Arms, Larry Haynie, did not respond to calls and e-mails requesting comment.

Buyers of handgun ammunition must be at least 21, but beyond that, the requirements are few.

“Be standing in front of the counter and breathing,” said Jerry Henry, executive director of , which says it fights “to reclaim and expand our right to bear arms.”

“They sell an awful lot of reloads at gun shows,” Mr. Henry added. “They sell whatever they can, just like the rest of us, trying to make a dollar.”
24 2012-08-01 Pfizer reported a 25 percent increase in its second-quarter net income on Tuesday because of aggressive cost-cutting and lower reorganizing and other charges, shaking off the expected plunge in revenue from generic competition to its cholesterol fighter Lipitor, the world’s top-selling drug.

The world’s biggest drug maker easily beat analysts’ expectations, and Pfizer’s stock hit a 52-week closing high of $24.06, up 35 cents.

Pfizer, which makes Viagra and the painkiller Celebrex among other drugs, posted net income of $3.25 billion, or 43 cents a share, in the latest quarter, up from $2.61 billion, or 33 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding $2.1 billion in charges before taxes, adjusted net income was $4.67 billion, or 62 cents a share — 8 cents more than Wall Street expected. Charges included $1.2 billion for asset write-downs and $474 million in legal charges, mainly for litigation over its hormone replacement medicines.

Revenue totaled $15.06 billion, down 9 percent but above expectations of $14.93 billion.

Timothy Anderson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, wrote to investors that Pfizer’s strong profit was primarily a result of better revenue, better gross margins and lower selling, general and administrative spending. Pfizer has reduced its work force to 101,000, from about 110,600 people at the end of 2010.
25 2012-08-01 Dennis Friedrich, who was named Brookfield’s chief executive in May, said the changes at the World Financial Center were a response to the generational shift in the work force. “The new worker is attracted to natural light, green spaces and access to the waterfront,” Mr. Friedrich said. He said the redesign was also intended to make the center more welcoming to the surrounding residential community.

A new two-story glass entry pavilion on West Street will allow people to enter the complex at street level, though most will arrive through passageways evocative of air terminals that will run under West Street and connect to the long-awaited transportation hubs at the World Trade Center and Fulton Street. The pavilion will replace the glass facade the Pellis designed for the Winter Garden after the bridge connecting it to the World Trade Center was destroyed in the 2001 terrorist attack.

The plans also call for a transformation of the cluttered-looking corridor leading from Vesey Street to the Winter Garden into a sleek shopping center offering what David Cheikin, the vice president in charge of leasing, describes as “hip luxury.” The current tenants, including the restaurants Cosi and Devon & Blakely, were induced to give up their leases, a process that required “years of brutal effort,” Mr. Cheikin said. The brass-framed canopies delineating separate eating areas — a feature that was not part of Mr. Pelli’s design — will be removed. “The space has all been reconfigured,” Mr. Pelli said. “It will be a much more intense shopping experience.”

On the side facing the river, Brookfield is planning to install a 25,000-square-foot food market in the style of Eataly, the Italian marketplace in the Flatiron district, but with an emphasis on seafood and fresh produce. An open dining area operated by 14 restaurateurs will fill the second floor, and six separate restaurants will be added. Brokers say Lower Manhattan is badly in need of more stores and restaurants, given the growing residential population, the new office towers and the explosion in tourism resulting from the opening of the World Trade Center memorial. “The retailers down there now are doing well,” said Benjamin Fox, executive vice president of retail leasing at Massey Knakal.

While the retail spaces are expected to be an easy sell, filling the office space there is likely to be more daunting, at least for the next few years, real estate specialists said.

“Brookfield is very strong on the leasing side,” said Michael Knott, a managing director at Green Street Advisors, a research company in Newport Beach, Calif. “But the enormity of the challenge at this time seems to be pretty striking.”

About 12 percent of the prime office space in Lower Manhattan is currently available for occupancy within the coming year — a figure that will spike to 15 percent within the next few months, said Steve Coutts, a senior vice president at Studley, a brokerage that represents tenants.

Financial services still dominate the Lower Manhattan office market but make up an increasingly smaller proportion — 46 percent, compared to 57 percent in 2005, according to CBRE Group. But though millions of square feet of leases are expiring in the next few years, there are no signs that other large companies plan to follow the departing World Financial Center tenants to Midtown. “I don’t hear anyone talking about defecting for Midtown,” said Peter Riguardi, president for New York operations at Jones Lang LaSalle. “That situation is quiet now.”

And brokers say they are encouraged that 19 tenants from Midtown and the neighborhood below Grand Central Terminal to Canal Street known as Midtown South have signed leases downtown in recent months for 25,000 square feet or more, for a total of 2.9 million square feet. The largest are the media company Condé Nast at One World Trade Center, the investment firm Oppenheimer & Company at 85 Broad Street and the law firm Wilmer Hale at 7 World Trade Center.

A Viacom migration to either the World Financial Center or the World Trade Center, from Times Square, would have given the neighborhood a big boost, real estate specialists say. But in April, the entertainment conglomerate decided to remain at 1515 Broadway and eventually take over all of the building. In exchange, the landlord, SL Green Realty Corporation, agreed to extensively upgrade the building, said Steven M. Durels, director of leasing.

Landlords and brokers say the neighborhood is likely to benefit from the success of Midtown South, where rents have climbed rapidly in recent months. The average annual asking rent for prime space there in the second quarter of this year was $67.99 a square foot, compared to $72.88 for Midtown itself, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. In downtown, the average asking rent was $45.51.

Sheldon L. Cohen, a senior managing director at CBRE Group, said that clients who never would have considered Lower Manhattan before are looking there now. “Midtown South is an enormously tight market,” he said. “We are starting to see some spillover.”

Mr. Friedrich of Brookfield said World Financial Center would be debt-free by 2014 and could charge lower rents than the new World Trade Center towers. The asking rent for most of the space at the World Financial Center is in the $50-a-square-foot range, brokers said.
26 2012-08-01 The study compared the incidence of hip fracture among 410,809 patients who had surgery to remove the cataracts during the study period with the incidence among those who did not, adjusting for differences in age, race, sex, place of residence, cataract severity and other illnesses and physically limiting conditions.

Some 13,976 of the patients sustained hip fractures in the course of a year.

Those who had cataracts removed sustained 16 percent fewer hip fractures in the year after surgery than those who did not, the study found, though the youngest patients — those ages 65 to 69 — did not reap this benefit, and in fact experienced an increase in hip fractures.

Researchers speculated that the youngest patients having cataract surgery may be very active people who had the surgery in only one eye, which could worsen problems with depth perception and balance, or may include people with serious neurological ailments. They said more study of this age group was needed.

But older patients and those who were very ill benefited tremendously. Patients ages 80 to 84 experienced the most significant benefit, with 28 percent fewer hip fractures. Those who had many other illnesses and chronic conditions, like heart disease, were 26 to 28 percent less likely to experience a fracture than equally sick patients who did not have the cataracts removed.

And those who had severe cataracts removed experienced 23 percent fewer hip fractures than those who had severe cataracts but did not have surgery.

“Seeing helps you navigate a new environment and helps with balance,” Dr. Coleman said. “You really need your eyes and vision to help you stay stable.”

Kavita Sivaramakrishnan, an assistant professor at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University who was not involved in the research, called the findings “exciting” and said they underscore the critical role that vision plays in quality of life and healthy aging.

“Visual functioning helps in so many ways, whether it’s nighttime driving, participating in community activities or mental health,” she said. “People will tell you their life satisfaction is so much higher after cataract surgery.” Poor vision “affects your self-confidence so much,” she added.

Dr. Coleman, an eye surgeon who studies the effect of visual impairment on falls and fractures, described an elderly breast cancer patient whom she had treated. The patient suffered from severe cataracts, and her adult daughters led her around on a leash.

“Her internist asked me to take out her cataracts even though she was very ill with the cancer,” she recalled. “After the first cataract was removed, she came back and walked into the exam room on her own, not being led on a leash. She was excited, she had on makeup, she was dressed nicely and she walked in with authority. She told her daughters to wait in the waiting room. She was back in control.”
27 2012-08-01 Abigail Gullo, who left Fort Defiance in Brooklyn to collaborate with Lu Brow of Swizzle Stick on SoBou’s cocktail program (both places are owned by the same people who own the Commander’s Palace Restaurant), thinks the trend “says as much about New Orleans as it does about New York.”

“New Orleans is a very exciting place right now,” she said last week while catering to attendees of Tales of the Cocktail, the city’s annual convention of drinks enthusiasts and professionals. “I see it as going back to the roots, finding another city like New York that loves to eat, loves to drink and never lost that idea of that magical place between home and work where people socialize.”

Other recent New York expatriates include Ryan Gannon, a veteran of the Spotted Pig, in Manhattan, who now tends bar at Bellocq and Cure; Nick Jarrett, who bartended at Dram and Clover Club, in Brooklyn, and currently pulls down shifts at Cure and the Saint, a popular Lower Garden District dive bar; and Kimberly Patton-Bragg, who put in years behind the bar at Danny Meyer’s Blue Smoke, before moving to New Orleans in 2008 and eventually devising the drinks list at Tamarind. Jeff Berry, arguably the country’s leading authority on tiki drinks, this spring realized a longstanding dream to move here from Asheville, N.C. He plans to open a tiki bar in a year’s time.

“The scene is growing immensely,” said Ms. Patton-Bragg, who says she appreciates this city’s lack of pretense.

New York mixologists have been known to misplace their sense of humor regarding their craft. That is not a problem here. At Maurepas Foods — the hot Bywater restaurant where the Minneapolis refugee Brad Smith has created a cocktail program that makes abundant use of seasonal produce — there is a drink whose semi-profane name would seem to indicate it’s a variation on the Cosmopolitan. It is, in fact, a shot of Old Grand-Dad bourbon.

At Twelve-Mile Limit — a dive bar in the Mid-City neighborhood that was taken over by the bartender T. Cole Newton in 2010 and given a stealth quality cocktail program and impressive back bar — customers are regularly invited to “Name This Cocktail.” The ingredients of a new creation are written on a chalkboard and stay there until someone creates an appropriate label.

Sometimes the christened drink earns a permanent spot on the menu, as with the Mantis: rum, the Italian bitter Branca Menta, almond syrup and lime juice that tastes like a delicious alcoholic mouthwash. (Twelve-Mile Limit cocktails are not just good, they are dive-bar cheap, from $6 to $8.)

Both SoBou and Bellocq, which opened in July and December respectively, take care to honor New Orleans’s drinking past. “We’re a modern Creole saloon,” Ms. Gullo said. “We wanted fun, approachable drinks and classics with a little historical bent.” Hence the Taylor Bird Sazerac, which uses two of New Orleans longtime alcohol passions — rye and Cognac — along with Steen’s, a local cane syrup.

The long list of cobblers at Bellocq (the drinks were created by Kirk Estopinal and Neal Bodenheimer) is topped by the sherry cobbler, the classic version of the drink. But also available are cobblers anchored by yellow Chartreuse (spiced up with raw jalapeño), Madeira, the French aperitif Bonal (brightened by a twist of grapefruit) or Sauternes, nearly all of them served in frosty silver Indian water cups. In fact, the bartenders will draft any liquor in the back bar into cobblerdom.

“Now when I look at everything,” said Nick Detrich, the bar manager, “I think of making it a cobbler.”

A Jägermeister cobbler? It could happen. In New Orleans drinking culture, everything is sacred, and nothing is.
28 2012-08-01 WASHINGTON — President Obama’s nominee to become the new ambassador to Pakistan said on Tuesday that his top priority would be to press the government there to take more forceful measures against the Haqqani network, a Taliban affiliate whose leaders, sheltered in Pakistan, have mounted a series of attacks against American and other targets in Afghanistan.

The diplomat, Richard G. Olson, made the pledge at a confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where he appeared along with James B. Cunningham, the nominee to become the new ambassador to Afghanistan.

“I will certainly, if confirmed, take it as a central responsibility and the most urgent of my responsibilities to continue to press the Pakistani authorities on the Haqqani network in every way possible,” Mr. Olson said.

Together, the two seasoned diplomats, both currently stationed in Kabul, Afghanistan, would face perhaps the most complex and unstable tangle of issues to confront any pair of American envoys in the world, a tangle in which terrorism and intrigue meet military, political and economic turmoil.

Both men said that one key to success would be to get Afghans and Pakistanis to trust that the United States and its allies would not abandon the region after 2014, when the last American and NATO combat forces are scheduled to leave Afghanistan.

The diplomats faced respectful but sometimes skeptical questioning from Democrats and Republicans, with several senators from across the ideological spectrum suggesting that it would be a waste of American money to continue providing billions of dollars a year in economic and military aid to the two nations unless they make progress in stamping out corruption, build up their own forces against terrorists and insurgents and demonstrate an ability to hold fair elections.
29 2012-08-01 Don’t throw out the spicy adobo that canned chipotles are packed in: It gives this dish a real kick....
30 2012-08-01 On a nonseasonally adjusted basis, prices fared even better, rising 2.2 percent. Compared with a year ago, price declines moderated, slipping 0.7 percent, which was the smallest drop since the last time year-over-year prices rose in September 2010.

Consumer spending, which makes up about 70 percent of economic activity in the nation, fell 0.1 percent in June after adjustment for rising prices, the Commerce Department said in a separate report.

“Consumers are afraid,” said Matthew Lifson, an analyst at Cambridge Mercantile Group in Princeton, N.J. “This data suggests that the U.S. economy is stagnant over all, and it’s just muddling.”

Before adjustment for inflation, spending was flat, slightly less than forecasts for a 0.1 percent increase.

Household income rose in June by 0.5 percent, the most in three months, but consumers kept extra cash by saving more.

With price-adjusted incomes rising in June and consumption falling, the saving rate for households rose to 4.4 percent, its highest level in a year.

Still, consumers’ moods have not completely deteriorated, and a separate gauge showed confidence unexpectedly rose in July as Americans were more optimistic about the short-term outlook than they were about their current situations.

The Conference Board Consumer Research Center said its index of consumer attitudes climbed to 65.9 from a upwardly revised 62.7 in June. Recent strength in the stock market probably was the reason, economists said.

Despite the improvement, confidence remains well below levels recorded before the financial crisis.

“Given the current economic environment, in particular the weak labor market, consumer confidence is not likely to gain any significant momentum in the coming months,” Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board, said in a statement.

In the manufacturing sector, the rate of business activity in the Midwest rose in July, as somewhat stronger new orders offset a weakening environment for labor.

The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago business barometer rose to 53.7 from 52.9 in June. The report was released a day before two larger national manufacturing reports.
31 2012-08-01 Older people who have eye surgery to remove cataracts and improve their vision also significantly reduce their risk of breaking a hip in a fall, with the sickest among them and those in their early 80s experiencing nearly 30 percent fewer hip frac...
32 2012-08-01 The Philadelphia Orchestra has stepped into the sunlight, announcing on Tuesday that it formally emerged from operating under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. The development, which happened according to schedule, comes after a little more than ...
33 2012-08-02 It may be worthwhile to consider what would have happened a few decades ago had a computer somehow done the same thing.

The orders would have flooded into specialists at the New York Stock Exchange — people who had a duty to make markets — or to the market makers in Nasdaq stocks who had a similar responsibility. Some of the stupid orders might have been executed, but trading in the affected stocks would have come to a halt within minutes while people tried to figure out what was going on. There would have been red faces at the firm responsible, but much less red ink.

Those market makers are largely gone now. Their sources of profit — the spreads between what they sold stocks for and what they would pay for them — have vanished with competition and rule changes that allow share prices to move by one cent or less, rather than the one-eighth of a dollar, or 12.5 cents, that used to be the minimum change.

Market makers have been largely replaced by high-frequency traders who use computers that can react to orders in nanoseconds. They send in orders — and cancel them — far faster than any human could hope to do.

Exchanges, knowing that they need market makers who will take the other side of customer orders, offer rebates to high-frequency traders who manage to fill a lot of orders. In normal times, the result is markets that are highly liquid and very fast.

Decades ago, the size of an order that could be executed was limited by the capital available to the stock exchange specialist, and it was necessary for Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs and Salomon Brothers to fill the role for large institutional orders. There are enough high-frequency firms that big orders can now be filled quickly and at lower costs.

However, those high-frequency traders have no obligation to hang around and continue to make markets when things get dicey. There was plenty of criticism of the specialists and market makers in the old days. We are approaching the 25th anniversary of the 1987 crash, when many Nasdaq market makers panicked and decided that the safer course was to not answer their phones.

But the market makers generally met their responsibilities. If they were unwilling to do so, perhaps because of a flood of orders to sell a particular stock, the market in that stock would simply shut down for a time. That pause would give others time to see what was happening, and anyone who thought the market move was unreasonable could step in and offer to buy the stock.

Now, many of the high-frequency traders — who have no power to halt trading, even if their computers somehow concluded that was wise — have simply programmed their computers to get out of a market if it is going crazy. The result is that markets may have far less liquidity when that liquidity is needed most.

To get the advantages that come with being listed as market makers, high-frequency firms were required to usually have offers posted to buy and sell the stocks in which they made markets. That rule led to the stub bid. If things were going crazy, the firm would put in a bid of $1 a share for a $40 stock. It met the requirement, but obviously no one would be stupid enough to sell at that price.

Unless that someone were a computer.

During the flash crash, sell orders in some stocks overwhelmed demand for the stocks. Computers looked for the best bid, and eventually that bid was the $1 stub. So trades were executed at the price. Stub bids are no longer allowed, but there is still plenty that can go wrong.

Exchanges are less colorful now. Commodity markets were once filled with screaming traders wagging their fingers and trying to get the attention of some other trader who was offering to sell what the trader wanted to buy. Now there are far fewer traders on the floor, assuming there is still a floor, and those who remain are as likely to be typing orders into their iPads as they are to be communicating with one of the other humans.

But in at least one strange way, the past has returned. Once you had to be close to the exchange floor to trade. An etching of the financial district during a panic in 1873, published in Harpers Weekly, shows dozens of wires between buildings. If you weren’t instantly connected, you were at a major disadvantage.

And so it is now. The people programming and running computers for high-frequency traders may be anywhere, but their computers need to be as close as possible to the computers of the exchanges where they trade. Some traders pay exchanges for that proximity. That way they can see orders a fraction of a second faster than their competitors, and withdraw their own orders faster when the computer programs indicate that is wise.

High-frequency trading got its start in stocks, but it has spread to commodities and changed trading patterns there. The computers search for correlations between different markets, and try to take advantage of them before others can do so. The result is that markets that once tended to trade in the same direction much of the time now almost always do, particularly when one market starts to move.

That was on display Thursday.

As stock markets fell in reaction to disappointing news from the European Central Bank, oil and copper prices immediately moved the same way. Bond prices rose. It was less that anyone had grown negative on copper and more that computers calculated that the two markets would move together, and assured that they did.

What can be done to preserve the advantages of technology and avoid the disasters?

Perhaps not very much. Regulators can put in rules, and programmers can put in programs, to avoid Wednesday’s mistake. But in complex systems, there may be unforeseen results of any one fix, and the profits from being first to put in some new system may lead to the use of programs with undetected flaws.

If the errors of today are too much to accept, we may have to give up some of the advantages of innovation. That could mean slower markets, with more chance for human intervention, or a move to raise trading costs enough to make some strategies that rely on fast and frequent trades simply too expensive to be worth the effort.
34 2012-08-02 Thomas M. Joyce, chief executive of the Knight Capital Group, has been an unapologetic advocate of electronic trading. After Wednesday's trading debacle at Knight, he is fighting for the firm's survival....
35 2012-08-02 By rushing to get a program for trading stocks online, Knight Capital lost millions of dollars and created havoc on stock exchanges, reviving calls for bolder changes to a computer-driven market....
36 2012-08-02 A Japanese investigation into insider trading has extended onto the trading floors of some of Wall Street's largest companies, including Goldman Sachs....
37 2012-08-02 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday's selection includes Facebook raising its estimate of the number of false accounts, a study showing a greater correlation between a...
38 2012-08-02 Airports and hotels offer amenities for those who want to exercise on the go.
39 2012-08-02 It's that time of the year again! We've just released our schedule for TimesOpen 2012. As always, we'll have four events leading up to an all-day hack day in December....
40 2012-08-02 Should we just accept that when you buy a new computer, you should buy it for what it does now, and learn not to resent the fact that, inevitably, there will be better, faster, cheaper computers in the future?...
41 2012-08-02 The recall is of 778,000 RAV4 and Lexus HS 250h models sold in the United States is to fix a problem in the rear suspension that Toyota says arises when the vehicles are serviced....
42 2012-08-02 Robert Ramnarine is accused of buying call options in ZymoGenetics, Pharmasset and Amylin Pharmaceuticals before they were acquired by Bristol-Myers Squibb....
43 2012-08-02 An instinctive scorer, Russell Westbrook has yet to carve out a distinctive role on the United States men’s basketball team, perhaps in large part because of the way Coach Mike Krzyzewski has employed him....
44 2012-08-02 Examining the fallout of an electronic trading debacle. | What the Fed's inaction means for the economy. | A look at Chick-fil-A, as a business. | Keeping fit while traveling....
45 2012-08-02 Examining the fallout of an electronic trading debacle. | What the Fed's inaction means for the economy. | A look at Chick-fil-A, as a business. | Keeping fit while traveling.
46 2012-08-02 The work, by the Brooklyn artist José Parlá, measures 37 feet by 7 feet....
47 2012-08-02 The Day: Initially rejected in 1936, a story by F. Scott Fitzgerald is running in the current issue of The New Yorker....
48 2012-08-02 The money is not a huge amount for Goldman, which last month reported over $900 million in second-quarter profit, and the investment promises a public-relations benefit for the Wall Street bank. For the city, the money allows the Bloomberg administration to demonstrate, and test, several of its priorities: enlisting private sector help in financing public needs, and tying program money to rigorous outcome evaluations.

The Goldman money will be used to pay MDRC, a social services provider, to design and oversee the program. If the program reduces recidivism by 10 percent, Goldman would be repaid the full $9.6 million; if recidivism drops more, Goldman could make as much as $2.1 million in profit; if recidivism does not drop by at least 10 percent, Goldman would lose as much as $2.4 million.

“This promising financing model has potential to transform the way governments around the country fund social programs, and as first in the nation to launch it, we are anxious to see how this bold road map for innovation works,” Mr. Bloomberg said in a statement.

“Social impact bonds have potential upside for investors,” he added, “but citizens and taxpayers stand to be the biggest beneficiaries.”

In a twist that differentiates New York’s plan from other governments’ experiments with social impact bonds, Mr. Bloomberg’s personal foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies, will provide a $7.2 million loan guarantee to MDRC.

If the jail program does not succeed, MDRC can use the Bloomberg money to repay Goldman a portion of its loan; if the program does succeed, Goldman will be paid by the city’s Department of Correction, and MDRC may use the Bloomberg money for other social impact bonds, said James Anderson, director of the foundation’s government innovation program.

Jeffrey B. Liebman, a professor of public policy at who has written about social impact bonds, said the New York contract would be widely scrutinized.

“This will get attention as perhaps the most interesting government contract written anywhere in the world this year,” Dr. Liebman said. “People will study the contract terms, and the New York City deal will become a model for other jurisdictions.”

But social impact bonds have also worried some people in the nonprofit and philanthropy field, who say monetary incentives could distort the programs or their evaluations.

“I’m not saying that the market is evil,” said Mark Rosenman, a professor emeritus at Union Institute and University in , “but I am saying when we get into a situation where we are encouraging investment in order to generate private profit as a substitute for government responsibility, we’re making a big mistake.”

Goldman approached the city after hearing that New York officials and MDRC were interested in social impact bonds. In an interview, Alicia Glen, the head of Goldman Sachs’s Urban Investment Group, said the company was confident that the program would work.

“This is a new approach — no city has ever done something exactly like this before — and we were able to get comfortable with the risks, which other financial institutions may not have been,” Ms. Glen said. “But we are confident that the city will identify enough savings that we’ll get a reasonable return on the investment.”

The Goldman money will finance a program called Adolescent Behavioral Learning Experience, or ABLE, as a part of the Bloomberg administration’s year-old Young Men’s Initiative, which seeks to improve prospects for black and Latino adolescents. The jail program, which will offer counseling and education for an estimated 3,400 incarcerated adolescent men each year, will be run by two nonprofit organizations, Osborne Association and Friends of Island , and overseen by MDRC.

Currently, nearly 50 percent of young men released from Rikers reoffend within a year.

City officials said they hoped the concept of social impact bonds could also be used to finance programs on homelessness, , special education or health care. By using the mechanism to pay for prevention programs that are often too expensive for government to afford, the officials say they believe that they could save taxpayers money over the long term.

“Government is paying for outcomes that the government wants to achieve,” Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs, the program’s chief architect, said. “This is designed to provide a template for other initiatives so we can do more.”

New York’s program is modeled, in part, after one in Peterborough, a suburb, that began in September 2010 and is still years from being fully evaluated.

In Massachusetts, Jay Gonzalez, the secretary of administration and finance, is a proponent of social impact bonds. “We’ve got to change from the idea of, ‘We just pay for stuff and hopefully get the results,’ ” Mr. Gonzalez said in an interview. “The beauty of this is if they perform to get the results, then we pay. If they don’t, we don’t pay.”
49 2012-08-02 Android apps list their permissions on both the device and on the Web....
50 2012-08-02 An owner’s dispatches from the front lines.
51 2012-08-02 “This is a game we probably should have lost because we had so many opportunities and didn’t cash in on them,” David Wright said.

They provided just enough offense to win the game. Ruben Tejada reached base four times for the Mets and got them started in the first, blasting Matt Cain’s second pitch of the game, an inside fastball, over the wall in left field for a leadoff home run. With that, Tejada broke a streak of 629 at-bats without one. His last had come on Sept. 5, 2010.

“After like two years, it was great,” Tejada said with a laugh. “I hit it good, but you never know what happens.”

Tejada singled in his next at-bat, in the second inning, to load the bases with one out. Jordany Valdespin came up next and grounded a ball to third, where Marco Scutaro got the force out while Josh Thole hustled home to score. Wright came up with two runners still on base and struck out to end the inning.

Cain matched his shortest start of the year, going five innings. He allowed seven hits and three walks while striking out five.

Niese, meanwhile, had one of his sharpest outings of the season. He gave up only one run over seven innings, allowed three hits and two walks, and struck out five.

“Every five days, you start all over again,” Niese said. “You start with a clean slate.”

He cruised until the sixth inning, when Buster Posey came up with two outs and pummeled a cutter from Niese over the left-field fence, reducing the Mets’ lead to 2-1.

The Mets’ bullpen held the slim lead, as Tim Byrdak and Jon Rauch combined to pitch a scoreless eighth. Then Bobby Parnell had a clean ninth to get his fourth save of the year.

General Manager Sandy Alderson said Matt Harvey, who was promoted to the majors last month, and Zack Wheeler, who was promoted to Class AAA on Wednesday, would have approximate inning limits for the season. Harvey, 23, who has made two solid starts for the Mets, had 1211/3 innings after his outing Tuesday. Alderson said Harvey would be capped around 170 innings. Wheeler, 22, who had 116 innings after pitching last weekend, will be limited to about 150. Alderson also said the Mets were mulling over plans to pitch R. A. Dickey on short rest at some point this month as a means to provide rest for other members of the staff. ... Closer Frank Francisco made another rehabilitation appearance Wednesday. Alderson said he expected Francisco to join the Mets on Friday in San Diego.
52 2012-08-02 In countries like the United States, where the emphasis is on winning medals, there is a desire to see the Olympic program return to its pre-2000 format of preliminaries and finals so the stars have a more expedient, less arduous path to gold. The developing swimming nations overwhelmingly embrace the current format of preliminaries followed by a 16-athlete semifinal and culminating in an eight-swimmer final for all individual events shorter than 400 meters. The up-and-comers like it because it affords competitors with no chance of winning medals their moment in the spotlight in a semifinal mixed in with the evening’s highly charged finals.

“Our country is all about the medals,” said Dave Salo, who coaches Soni. “Other countries are about setting national records and finishing in the top 16. To them, that’s significant.”

El Bekri, 25, was beaming as she walked through the mixed zone after ending up 11th in the 200 breaststroke. In two races at the 2008 Olympics and in her first two races here, she failed to advance to the semifinals. “For me, it is a great finish,” she said.

El Bekri, an engineering consultant, said her bosses gave her a three-month leave of absence so she could focus on the Olympics. “I hope what I did today is going to help make swimming more popular back home,” she said.

The most popular rivalry in the United States, Michael Phelps versus Ryan Lochte, resumed Wednesday with the preliminaries and the semifinals of the 200 individual medley. Phelps was dragging, having slept little after becoming the most decorated Olympian by winning his 18th and 19th medals Tuesday night.

On the way to the pool for the semifinals, he took a phone call from President Obama. Then he went out and qualified third for Thursday’s final, directly ahead of Hungary’s Laszlo Cseh. Lochte led all finalists in his second race in less than an hour. He opened his night by qualifying second, behind his teammate Tyler Clary, in his 2008 gold medal event, the 200 backstroke.

“I would prefer just prelims and finals, so I would be able to handle more swims,” said Lochte, who qualified to race in four individual events and at least two relays here. “I would probably be able to do seven or eight individual events.”

There was a third race Wednesday that Lochte would have loved to have competed in. He might have if the Olympic program were different. The 100 freestyle final featured Yannick Agnel, the Frenchman who ran Lochte down in the final 50 to hand the United States a defeat in the 4x100 freestyle relay. Agnel wound up fourth in a race that nearly produced a tie at the top. James Magnussen, the fastest qualifier from Australia, finished one-hundredth of a second behind the American Nathan Adrian, who clocked a 47.52.

Adrian, the first American to win the event since Matt Biondi in 1988, was quick to the wall but slow to react. “I didn’t want to be the guy celebrating when I got eighth or something,” he said.

Would eighth in the world really not be worth celebrating? Or second, for that matter?

“Having such a successful young career, I just felt pretty much bulletproof coming into this Olympics,” Magnussen said. “It’s very humbling. It’s a pretty tough time to learn you’re human.”

The disappointment expressed by Magnussen was echoed by Liu Zige of China, who finished eighth in defense of her 200 butterfly crown. “I didn’t expect the result would be this bad,” she said through an interpreter.

Yakov Toumarkin, a 20-year-old Israeli, stood in the mixed zone after his 200 backstroke semifinal Wednesday hoping for eighth place. His goal coming into the Olympics was to finish in the top 16 in the preliminaries, which he did by setting a national record of 1:57.33. Racing in the first of two semifinal heats, Toumarkin finished with exactly the same time, then waited to see if it would be fast enough to make the final.

“Either way, I’m happy,” he said. The eight finalists flashed on a flat-screen television in front of him, and Toumarkin strained to see if his name was there. It was. He qualified eighth for Thursday’s final. “Oh, now I feel great,” he said, adding, “This is beyond my dreams.”
53 2012-08-02 And investigators sent a dossier to Parliament on Wednesday accusing an opposition member, Gennady Gudkov, of violating a law in the operation of a private security company. The step was a prelude to a formal request that the chamber strip Mr. Gudkov of immunity from prosecution.

In that context, the ruling in the Khodorkovsky case came as a sharp contrast, although President Vladimir V. Putin, speaking on Tuesday after Mr. Navalny’s indictment, again denied any political motive for the prosecution of Mr. Khodorkovsky and others whose cases were championed by rights activists. There was no immediate reaction from Mr. Putin or other senior officials to the most recent Khodorkovsky ruling.

Mr. Khodorkovsky, Russia’s most famous prisoner, was a financial backer of opposition parties until he was tried twice, ostensibly for economic crimes, and sentenced to a total of 14 years in prison.

The new ruling raises the prospect that in the autumn, Moscow courts will simultaneously hear arguments for his release and for the imprisonment of the protest leaders, muddying the narrative of a repressive judicial system.

The opacity of Russian courts and their system of informal ties to the Kremlin, continuing a Soviet-era tradition known as “telephone justice,” means that a public accounting of the government’s influence on even senior judges rarely emerges.

The Russian Supreme Court “is trying to showcase itself as independent institution,” Ilya Ponomarev, an opposition member of Parliament who is also under investigation in the new round of prosecutions, said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Ponomarev visited Mr. Khodorkovsky in a prison in the province of Karelia last week, and said he did not expect him to be released any time soon.

“It’s another imitation of legal process, rather than real legal process,” Mr. Ponomarev said.

Justice Lebedev signed the ruling on July 24, but it was not posted on the court’s Web site as is customary. The defense team published a copy on Wednesday, even as the arrests and indictments of other opposition figures continued in Moscow.

Justice Lebedev ruled that a lower court, the Moscow city court, should reconsider a defense argument that Mr. Khodorkovsky and a business partner had been tried twice for essentially the same suspect business transactions: tax evasion and fraud charges and an embezzlement charge. The city court has 30 days to reconsider the appeal, defense lawyers said.

The verdict in the second case, hundreds of pages long and wormy with what outside researchers say are gaps in logic and imprecise references to the criminal code, has been an embarrassment for the Russian judiciary, but until now no higher court has challenged it.

While positive for the defense, the high court ruling could delay an appeal by the defense team to the European Court of Human Rights, Jeffrey D. Kahn, an associate professor at Southern Methodist University and an authority on Russian cases in the European court, wrote in an e-mail.
54 2012-08-02 “I certainly didn’t beat myself up and have to curl up in a corner,” Scott said. “The disappointment of Lytham shouldn’t hold me back from taking advantage of the way I’m playing at the moment.”

Scott, a 32-year-old Australian, is looking to leave the letdown behind at Bridgestone, which last year was Scott’s first victory with Steve Williams, Tiger Woods’s former caddie.

“Always exciting to return as the defending champion, and there’s always a little extra motivation, I guess, when you are defending, to try and hold on to your trophy,” Scott said. “It’s something that was a big win for me last year and brought a lot of confidence.”

Confidence was a theme Wednesday, with the last major of the year, the P.G.A. Championship, coming next week at Kiawah Island in South Carolina.

“It would be nice to play well this week, get in the mix, and hopefully build some more confidence,” Scott said. “It would be quite an honor to defend a World Golf Championship with the field that’s assembled this week.”

Bridgestone features a truncated field of 78 golfers, mainly participants from the 2011 Presidential Cup and the top 50 in the rankings. One of those looking to steal Scott’s crown is Woods, who has won this tournament seven times since 1999, when the event first became part of the World Golf Championships. Woods is the only repeat winner, something Scott would like to change.

“Obviously, when you’re talking of Tiger, it doesn’t matter where you go, you think he’s a factor starting the week,” Scott said. “But I guess at times certain guys have success on certain courses, probably none more so than Tiger and this one.”

Still, plenty of eyes are guaranteed to be on Scott, curious to see how he will respond to the heightened profile and added pressure the British Open has brought his way. So far, Scott does not seem to mind.

“I think for me, it’s been just a great thing in my career, for me to know that I can play that well in a major,” he said. “Disappointing, absolutely, but if I felt that was my last chance, I’d probably never play golf again.”

Another victory at Bridgestone would also mark Scott’s first win since his triumph last year in Akron.

“It’s been a year; I feel like I’m playing good and a year is — I feel — too long not to win,” Scott said. “It’s really hard to win out here. But defending a World Golf Championship would certainly take a little focus off of the Open.”

If Scott truly is feeling any impact from the loss two weekends ago, he has not shown it yet.

“I think all of my chances are in front of me,” he said. “Everyone’s journey is different.”
55 2012-08-02 City officials, who testified extensively before the grand jury, said it was impossible to know how many of the city’s one million property owners were evading taxes by filing false income and expense statements with the Finance Department or the Tax Commission. But with $17 billion in property taxes collected in 2011, Glenn Newman, president of the Tax Commission, said “even a small amount of fraud can result in real money lost.”

Members of the city’s real estate industry said the issue might be overblown. “We’re surprised to see this report,” said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York. “Obviously, anything can be improved. But we believe the overwhelming majority of companies submit accurate statements, many of which are certified.”

In recent years, the Real Estate Board and many landlords have complained unsuccessfully to the city about inordinately high tax rates for apartment buildings, which, they say, account for as much as 33 percent of gross income.

In the last fiscal year, the owners of 184,000 properties appealed their tax assessments. And in 2011, the Tax Commission granted about $500 million in tax reductions.

The grand jury, however, cited studies showing that many properties identified by their owners as vacant or owner-occupied were in fact retail shops. Another study found that owners of unlicensed hotels had filed for tax reductions without reporting all the income they received.

The grand jury recommended requiring notarized statements and moving the current deadline for property tax filings back to June, from September, to provide the city more time to evaluate the income and expense statements. They also recommended imposing civil sanctions against owners who file false statements and allowing the Tax Commission to raise the assessed value of a property if it discovers that the owner omitted revenue information.

“As the city’s single largest revenue source, the importance of real property tax to the financial well-being of New York cannot be overstated,” Mr. Vance said in a statement Wednesday. “However, some unscrupulous individuals and entities routinely try to cheat the city out of this valuable revenue stream by filing false information with city agencies.”

One tax lawyer, who requested anonymity because he did not want to alienate city officials, said that a certified audit for each property would be expensive, and he questioned why officials were seeking additional penalties when there are already substantive sanctions for false statements. The city may be trying to create some momentum for a bill that would change the filing date for tax information, which, he said, did not have much support in the City Council.
56 2012-08-02 A dog may be man’s best friend, but the horror of watching one die is not the same as seeing a close relative killed, the New Jersey Supreme Court has ruled.

The case began after a woman watched aghast as a neighbor’s snarling dog killed her 9-year-old dog in Morris Plains, N.J., in 2007.

The dead dog’s owner, Joyce McDougall, sued the other dog’s owner and, after a nonjury trial in which Ms. McDougall testified about her closeness to her pet — it even slept in a bed near hers — a court awarded her $5,000 in damages for the value of the dog, a Maltese-poodle mix.

But the court denied Ms. McDougall’s claim for damages for emotional distress, to which she said she was entitled because she had witnessed her pet’s death.

A midlevel appeals court affirmed the denial of damages for emotional distress, and the New Jersey State Supreme Court upheld the decision on Tuesday.
57 2012-08-02 “The vast majority of defendants found incompetent are in fact restored to competence,” Dr. Appelbaum said. Medications can induce the change, although some mental health professionals are uncomfortable with coaxing someone to competence for a trial that could lead to the defendant’s execution.

An additional concern is what information should be withheld from the prosecution and public to ensure a fair trial. When word emerged that Mr. Holmes, who had been a graduate student at the University of Colorado Denver, had sent a package to a university psychiatrist who had been treating him, his lawyers accused the state of leaking the information and imperiling his right to an impartial jury. Such communication may be protected by patient-doctor privilege and violate the judge’s order sealing documents related to this case.

That order has also come under scrutiny. A group of news organizations, including The New York Times, filed a motion asking for access to the case documents. It says the seal “violates the public’s constitutional right of access to the records of criminal prosecutions, and undermines our nation’s firm commitment to the transparency and public accountability of the criminal justice system.”

If Mr. Holmes does stand trial, his lawyers are likely to argue that he should be declared not guilty by reason of insanity because he did not know the difference between right and wrong when he entered the Aurora movie theater.

Such a defense exists in nearly every state, although it has rarely been successful. Colorado is one of the few where the burden of proof falls more on the state than on the defense. The insanity defense has been much harder to prove since John W. Hinckley Jr. tried to assassinate President Ronald Reagan in 1981 and was found not guilty on that basis. Most states and the federal government toughened their insanity defense standards after a public outcry.

To fend off that defense, prosecutors will point to Mr. Holmes’s elaborate preparations — his booby-trapped apartment, his purchase of weapons and ammunition, and his wearing of a ballistic helmet and vest — as evidence of planning, which they will say are signs of sanity.

Meanwhile, there will be intense community pressure on the judge, the district attorney, defense lawyers and psychiatrists not to have Mr. Holmes declared incompetent or insane.

“When this kind of crime occurs in a community, there is a strong desire for vengeance, and many believe death is the only legitimate verdict,” said Lisa Wayne of Denver, former president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers.

If the prosecutor seeks the death penalty, as expected, jury selection will be especially long and complex because of the gravity of the process.

Dr. Appelbaum, of Columbia, said the jury would measure the atrociousness of Mr. Holmes’ crime against the degree of his impairment and decide whether it is fair to punish him. “There is a point where the crime is so heinous that impairment will not move many jurors,” he said.

Jeffrey S. Weiner, a criminal defense lawyer in Miami, agreed and said what many of his colleagues believe: “The likelihood that he won’t be sentenced to death is slim.”
58 2012-08-02 KABUL, Afghanistan — Afghanistan’s powerful finance minister came under scrutiny on Wednesday when an Afghan television network broadcast copies of two of his bank account statements that showed sizable payments from businesses and individuals and transfers of money from those accounts to bank accounts in Canada.

It is unclear for now whether the deposits and transfers were legitimate transactions, as Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal insists, or a red flag signaling malfeasance in one of the most critical ministries in terms of driving the country’s future. The Finance Ministry oversees the Afghan budget, the collection of taxes, customs duties and the allocation of money to other ministries.

The report on Tolo Television, which included an interview with Mr. Zakhilwal, showed copies of his bank statements from Standard Chartered Bank and Alfalah Bank from the years 2007-11 and stated that more than $1 million had been deposited into his accounts in that time and that some of the money had been transferred out of the country. The highlighted transactions included a $200,000 deposit from Safi Landmark, an Afghan company that runs hotels and other businesses here.

Mr. Zakhilwal said that the money in the accounts had been earned through his work as a consultant. “Before I came to Afghanistan, I was a doctor of economics and had a job in Canada. I was a university professor there,” he said in the Tolo interview.

“I had consultancy responsibilities,” he added, noting that he had worked for the World Bank and written chapters for books. Advisers in Afghanistan are paid $1,500 a day, he said.

A Finance Ministry spokesman, Najibullah Manali, dismissed the report as “character assassination,” adding: “If anyone wants to accrue money illegally, he does not do it through banks and bank accounts. There is a very safe hawala system of money transfer in which the money earned through corruption can be transferred with so much safety that no one can catch you.”
59 2012-08-02 The findings came as little surprise to the C train’s regulars. Some suggested that the report had been too kind; the train is not only the dirtiest, the riders insisted, but also the ugliest.

But with a closer look at the results, many wondered how the train’s sister lines, the A and the E, had managed to score so well for cleanliness. The E tied for 4th out of 20 lines; the A tied for 8th. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s most recent passenger surveys also show the C line languishing in last place in the category of “appearance,” while the A and E perform respectably.

The discrepancy is particularly frustrating in much of Manhattan, when C riders are faced with the splendor of unsoiled floors on trains from other lines pulling up to the same platform.

“Look how clean the E train is,” said Mike Reilly, 38, a construction worker from Rockaway Beach, Queens, slumping against a beam as one arrived at 42nd Street on Tuesday while he waited for his C.

Cars on the C line are the oldest in the subway system and among the oldest city subway trains in regular operation anywhere. They are also among the darkest in New York — and that, the transportation authority said, accounted for at least some of the cleanliness complaints.

“I’m sure that there is some cleanliness involved, but a lot of it does have to do with perception,” Charles Seaton, a spokesman for the authority, said. “The fact that the car is a dim car makes it perceived as being dirtier.”

Trains on the C line will soon undergo lighting renovations, Mr. Seaton said, though he was unsure exactly when.

Cleanliness is not historically a top complaint for riders on the C line; its trains have often received above-average marks in the category, according to Straphangers’ reports dating to 2000.

Still, many riders said the newfound filth was no illusion. Prince Graves, a minister and freelance writer from Fort Greene, Brooklyn, said that he had often seen discarded condoms on the C, and that in the fall, he entered a car to find that someone had defecated on a seat. Passengers scrambled, traumatized, to the other end of the car for an impromptu subterranean therapy session, he recalled.

“It’s a shock,” Mr. Graves said, tugging the brim of his fedora. He said he did not want to talk about the episode anymore.

Molly Osberg, 24, from Greenpoint, Brooklyn, said the C train filled an important niche: reminding visitors of the bad old days, when so-called scratchiti ruled the windows and the floor was coated with at least one layer of spilled beverage.

“I can imagine being a tourist and being very excited to take the C train,” she said.

Some argued that a train’s age and appearance could indirectly influence cleanliness. Aboard a C train early Tuesday evening, Eric Parness, 36, an Upper East Side resident who usually takes the Lexington Avenue line, took a forkful of his chicken and rice platter. When he eats on the C train, he said, portions of his meals occasionally remain there.

“It’s more likely I’d pick it up on a clean train,” he said of his spills. “Here the floor’s already so dirty.”
60 2012-08-02 “We live in the greatest country in the world, and we are so blessed to know that people will respect our position.”

The latest skirmish erupted last weekend when Kirk Cameron, a former sitcom actor who is now a conservative Christian activist, gave a lecture here on strengthening marriages, over the objection of gay groups who had wanted the town’s leadership to cancel the event. Mr. Cameron came under fire this year by gay-rights groups after an interview with Piers Morgan on CNN in which he described homosexuality as “unnatural” and “destructive.”

Several dozen protesters demonstrated outside the auditorium where Mr. Cameron was appearing. “I can’t understand why Ocean Grove is actually having that man in this town,” said Jim Powers-Hill, 52, a church administrator from Asbury Park.

But while Mr. Cameron’s talk generated anger, another episode last weekend showed that those on different sides of the issue of gay rights were trying to reach some understanding.

After Mr. Cameron’s appearance was announced, a lunch was arranged last Saturday at the home of Ms. Bernstein and Ms. Paster among members of the Camp Meeting Association and several gay-rights advocates.

Sitting in a circle in the living room around bowls of chips and pretzels, the visitors balanced plates of food on their knees as they listened to one another’s points of view. Dr. Dale C. Whilden, the president of the Camp Meeting Association and a dentist, was one of the first to arrive. “This is an opportunity to show that we respect them,” Dr. Whilden said of Ocean Grove’s gay community.

Representative Frank Pallone, a Democrat and a supporter of gay rights, sat near Mr. Whilden.

“Some of you said, ‘We’re not going to agree,’ ” Mr. Pallone said. “I think at some point we will agree.”

Steven Goldstein, the founder of Garden State Equality, a gay-rights group, spoke of a deep love for the Methodist Church. “We may not agree on everything, but we are, today, starting to see each other as human beings,” said Mr. Goldstein, who is studying to be a rabbi.

By the time the dessert emerged, the discussion turned to more neighborly matters: the hot summer, the economy, family concerns. A member of the Christian leadership took a seat next to Corey Bernstein, a gay 17-year-old from Millburn, N.J., who had addressed the group earlier about bullying issues. “So, where are you going to college next year?” she asked Corey, between bites of cake.

Tom Caruso, a 62-year-old retiree from Manhattan, bought a second home in Ocean Grove last year after he and his husband were married in New York State. Mr. Caruso, who was not at the lunch, said, “The town itself is very welcoming, very accepting, very nice place to be.” As for the Camp Meeting Association, he said he believed many members were welcoming to gays and lesbians as well, “but not all of them, obviously.”
61 2012-08-02 The Rev. Shawn Ratigan, a priest in Kansas City who is accused of producing pornographic photographs of young girls he knew, has filed notice that he will plead guilty in federal court on Thursday. He had previously pleaded not guilty and was to be tried this month. Diocesan employees discovered hundreds of images of girls’ genitals on a laptop computer the priest had taken in for repair in December 2010. Father Ratigan then survived a suicide attempt, and was reassigned to live in a church facility where he continued to have contact with children. The case led to the indictment of his superior, Bishop Robert Finn, and the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph, on a misdemeanor charge of failing to report suspected child abuse. They are scheduled for trial in September.
62 2012-08-02 “I’ve spent the last 30 years of my life studying wildlife, and many of the cloud forests that I once did research on are now gone — literally,” he said. “When I go back to the field, I see an incredible loss of species. Part of my decision to make this career change is that I feel I can’t be a bystander. This is an opportunity to protect and conserve these species.”

Dr. Samper, who replaces Steven E. Sanderson as president and chief executive, carries on a mission begun more than a century ago, when the New York Zoological Park first welcomed the public to view its collection of animals. Today, among its five parks in New York City, the society houses 84,409 mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, invertebrates and fish, representing 1,130 species. Its 500 conservation programs cover two million square miles around the globe.

But Dr. Samper’s inaugural day on the job was largely about learning the fastest routes from JungleWorld to the World of Birds and from the Dancing Crane Café to the Congo Gorilla Forest. Under leaden skies, with the occasional cries of beasts and birds punctuating the moist air, Dr. Samper moved easily through the throngs of visitors. He bent over to greet a toddler named Jayda and stopped to swap notes with Nancy J. Clum, the society’s curator of birds.

In the World of Birds, Dr. Samper took in a few exhibits, including one featuring African birds called white-throated bee eaters that, as their name suggests, consume bees; they swoop down from branches, grab a meal and return to their perches.

This particular exhibit, which has no glass separating visitors from the birds, caught Dr. Samper’s attention 20 years ago, when he visited the Bronx Zoo after returning from Africa. He said he had been struck by the immediacy and verisimilitude of the display, with its naturalistic grasses and branches and painted backdrop.

“I had just seen the birds on my trip, and they have this wonderful flight pattern,” he recalled. “That was a life-changing moment when I walked in there.”

Dr. Clum told Dr. Samper on Wednesday that the zoo would soon be getting two plate-billed mountain toucans, which would join the zoo’s collection of 1,189 birds. (Years ago, Dr. Samper had studied the large blue-and-brown birds, with their distinctively beefy bills, on the border of Ecuador and Colombia.)

“Thank you,” he said, looking moved by the news. “They’re iconic birds. You could not have picked a better species. They’re limited to an elevation of 1,000 to 2,000 meters,” on the west slopes of the Andes mountain range.

In recent years, the Wildlife Conservation Society has signed agreements with the governments of nations like Chile and Madagascar to address issues of conservation, land management, research, environmental education and carbon offsets. Dr. Samper said that such relationships were key to saving habitat and thus strengthening biodiversity.

“The future of wildlife on this planet is intimately tied to what these countries do,” he said. “The next decade is going to be absolutely critical. That’s why I came here.”

The society’s vice president for communications, Mary Dixon, was looking at her watch. Dr. Samper had more appointments. But wait: Was he planning to stop by one of the zoo’s gift shops to pick up a stuffed snow leopard or bald eagle for his children?

He turned to Ms. Dixon, asking, “What kind of a discount do I get?”
63 2012-08-02 The Neshoba County Fair is a ritualistic event centered on family life in simple two-story cabins....
64 2012-08-02 Gore Vidal, as many have noted, belonged to a singular generation of American literary men — and yes, almost all were men — whose public identities at times eclipsed their literary achievements.

The names remain familiar today: James Baldwin, Truman Capote, Norman Mailer, William Styron. Though often at odds with one another, they were alike in many ways. Each was born in the 1920s. Several served in World War II. All were remarkably precocious. (Mr. Vidal was 19 when he wrote his first published novel, “Williwaw.” ) Each was at ease in the public world — at home on television and on public stages, their faces known to millions who hadn’t read their books.

It is not surprising, then, that so much of the commentary following Mr. Vidal’s death on Tuesday at 86 has fastened on his infamous televised debate with another man of letters, William F. Buckley Jr., during the 1968 Democratic convention, when both were commentators for ABC News.

Captured in a vintage black-and-white YouTube clip, the two can be seen and heard engaging in a nasty word brawl. Mr. Vidal pins the label “crypto-Nazi” on Buckley, who testily responds by calling Mr. Vidal a “queer.” The epithets were ugly then, as they are today. But what is most striking to the contemporary viewer is how much the combatants resemble each other, beginning with their languidly patrician tones. The phrases come from the gutter, but plainly Mr. Vidal and Buckley do not. They exude the princely confidence once associated with well-born Americans of a certain pedigree.

It is also not surprising to learn that for all their animosity, the two men shared a distinct set of attitudes. Both were born in 1925 and came of age at a time, just before Pearl Harbor, when the most pressing issue was whether America should intervene in World War II. National opinion was divided — as it would later be over different wars — but in this early instance these two men, though they hadn’t yet met, stood on the same side in their fierce opposition to American intervention and to the “establishment” that was urging it.
65 2012-08-02 It helps, of course, that Mr. Cruz has the smooth good looks and practiced speech of a television host and is able to channel his knowledge into sound bites.

“He has the potential to be a national figure,” said Mark P. Jones, a political scientist at Rice University, noting Mr. Cruz’s intellect and oratorical skills.

“He’ll be a senator from the second-largest state in the nation,” Mr. Jones said, “and he’s very good on television, a perfectly designed politician for today’s 24-hour news cycle.”

Speaking to the Values Voters Summit in Washington in October, Mr. Cruz drew a standing ovation as he repeated the themes of the political and religious right, sometimes sounding more ideologue than intellectual. He called President Obama the country’s “most radical president,” railed against the “gay rights agenda” and warned against new threats to “religious liberty.” Within days, National Review anointed him “the next great conservative hope.”

On Tuesday, as he greeted supporters in sweltering heat outside a polling station, Mr. Cruz and his wife, Heidi, were picture-perfect, not a wrinkle on their clothes nor a hair out of place.

Mr. Cruz said that his first dive into electoral politics had left him feeling “invigorated and inspired.”

“Every day, I come home with a spring in my step,” he said to the wildly enthusiastic group of grass-roots volunteers and to the cameras. “We’ve got to work together to stop the Obama agenda and take this country back.”

Rafael Edward Cruz was born on Dec. 22, 1970, in Calgary, Alberta, where his parents worked in the oil business.

Mr. Cruz’s parents are central to the personal narrative he tells, how he got so devoted to his conservative brand of freedom. His father, also Rafael, now a Baptist pastor, fled Cuba in 1957 with $100 sewn into his underwear and worked his way through the University of Texas. His mother, Eleanor, was the first in her family to finish college, at Rice, and ran an energy company. They returned to Texas when he was a child, and he graduated from a Baptist high school in Houston.

His father told him as a child, Mr. Cruz often says, that “if we lose our freedom here, where do we go?”

Tuesday night, Mr. Cruz was joined on the victory stand by his parents, his wife and two small, blond daughters who held their hands over their ears as the large crowd cheered wildly.

Mr. Cruz tends to spend any spare time with his daughters, said his friend Kelly Shackelford, president of the Liberty Institute, an evangelical Christian legal group based in Texas.

Mr. Cruz worked in private law practice in the late 1990s and then began his turn into politics, working on the presidential campaign of George W. Bush and then working at the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department.

In 2003 he returned to Texas as solicitor general, giving him a direct chance to press for his ideals in the courts.

Mr. Cruz argued before the Supreme Court nine times and has trumpeted his successes. In his most notable victory, the court affirmed the right of Texas to ignore instructions from the International Court of Justice and the Bush administration to review an illegal immigrant’s death sentence.

He also helped argue that Texas could have a monument to the Ten Commandments at the Capitol, and keep the words “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance. But critics say that in the campaign he took too much credit for his own role in those cases, which are red meat for his evangelical supporters. Since 2008 he has worked in a private law firm here, Morgan Lewis, often representing corporate clients.

In the runoff campaign, Mr. Cruz scorched his opponent with charges that he was a conciliator, too quick to compromise. But Mr. Cruz has yet to grapple with the seemingly impossible choices faced by Congress as it seeks to balance the budget without gutting Medicare or Social Security, for example.

In the last few days of the campaign — perhaps in a last-minute effort to attract mainstream Republicans, or perhaps in a preview of the tasks ahead — Mr. Cruz sounded a bit more conciliatory himself, suddenly talking about “reaching across the aisle.”

In a brief interview on Tuesday, he said that his role model in this respect was Ronald Reagan. “President Reagan stood for conservative principles in a way that brought people together,” he said.

Republicans have too often had it backward, he said, “making hateful attacks but then compromising on basic principle.”

“But I am not willing to compromise on allowing the government to keep growing and expanding our debt,” he said.
66 2012-08-02 Just call him Snoop Lion.     Snoop Dogg, the veteran West Coast rapper, says he underwent a spiritual and artistic rebirth while making a new album in Jamaica last February. He abandoned rap as his preferred mode of expression, wrote more than a ...
67 2012-08-02 LONDON -- Bucking the industry trend of weak earnings, the British bank Standard Chartered reported on Wednesday that its net income rose 11.3 percent in the first half of the year on strength in Asia and other emerging markets.     The bank, whos...
68 2012-08-02 Q. I'm wondering what data my installed Android apps can see and use on my phone. Is there a way to tell?     A. When you install a new app on your Android smartphone, the program presents you with a list of permissions, and it is up to you to dec...
69 2012-08-02 Winston Churchill has been gone for almost half a century, but he returned for a small cameo role this week in Washington as the overheated campaign season continues.     The White House was forced to apologize late Tuesday after incorrectly insis...
70 2012-08-02 8:21 p.m. | Updated      LONDON - The hedge fund titan Louis M. Bacon has made billions of dollars for himself and his investors over the years by placing big bets that allowed him to overcome and profit from one financial crisis after another....
71 2012-08-02 Comcast added 156,000 high-speed Internet customers in the three months that ended June 30, helping to bolster its net income by 32 percent and underscoring the company's continuing transition from cable giant to broadband provider.     The increa...
72 2012-08-02 Like a defecting Syrian colonel or converted climate-change denier, Sanford I. Weill has been heartily welcomed among those on the right side of history.     The sheer inappropriateness of the vessel, the breathtaking audacity of the messenger, ca...
73 2012-08-03 As part of National Same-Sex Kiss Day, more than 14,000 had signed up for a Facebook event that encouraged couples to visit one of the restaurants and photograph themselves kissing....
74 2012-08-03 Over the last 12 to 18 months, one buzzword at Microsoft has come to encapsulate a bold redesign of the look of its most high-profile products: Metro. Now Microsoft is banishing the name from its products....
75 2012-08-03 Nissan revamps the 2013 Pathfinder's construction to appeal to a change in consumer taste and to keep up with competing vehicles riding on unibody platforms....
76 2012-08-03 A new report on the state of the smartphone market shows that Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system has gained some traction. But for Microsoft and its hardware partner, Nokia, it's unclear whether the good times will last....
77 2012-08-03 A new day of testimony in the dispute between Apple and Samsung began with a history lesson on the iPhone from Apple’s Philip W. Schiller....
78 2012-08-03 While the July report was better than forecast, it does not seem to have been sufficient to change analysts’ expectations for Fed action....
79 2012-08-03 The $1.9 billion bid for EMI "presents significant competition issues," Senators Herb Kohl and Mike Lee of the Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust issues wrote after holding hearing on the planned takeover....
80 2012-08-03 Disunion follows the Civil War as it unfolded.
81 2012-08-03 Economy adds more jobs than expected, though the jobless rate ticks up. | An unexpected risk in stock trading. | Facebook's stock slide....
82 2012-08-03 Economy adds more jobs than expected, though jobless rate ticks up. | An unexpected risk in stock trading. | Facebook's stock slide.
83 2012-08-03 According to a complaint filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, an employee of Bristol-Myers Squibb did little to cover his tracks when he engaged in an insider trading scheme that generated over $300,000 in profits....
84 2012-08-03 Over the last several months, two California men have watched their wives end their lives after a long, drawn-out illness. Were the husbands' acts informed by love or despair? Were they a reasonable response to unbearable suffering?...
85 2012-08-03 The effort to develop more than a dozen new television series and movies for the struggling children's channel came as the media giant reported a 7 percent decline in quarterly profit....
86 2012-08-03 Kara Lynn Joyce of the United States was forced into a swim-off Friday morning after she was part of a three-way tie for the final spot in the semifinals of the event....
87 2012-08-03 It may be worthwhile to consider what would have happened a few decades ago had a computer somehow done the same thing.

The orders would have flooded into specialists at the New York Stock Exchange — people who had a duty to make markets — or to the market makers in Nasdaq stocks who had a similar responsibility. Some of the stupid orders might have been executed, but trading in the affected stocks would have come to a halt within minutes while people tried to figure out what was going on. There would have been red faces at the firm responsible, but much less red ink.

Those market makers are largely gone now. Their sources of profit — the spreads between what they sold stocks for and what they would pay for them — have vanished with competition and rule changes that allow share prices to move by one cent or less, rather than the one-eighth of a dollar, or 12.5 cents, that used to be the minimum change.

Market makers have been largely replaced by high-frequency traders who use computers that can react to orders in nanoseconds. They send in orders — and cancel them — far faster than any human could hope to do.

Exchanges, knowing that they need market makers who will take the other side of customer orders, offer rebates to high-frequency traders who manage to fill a lot of orders. In normal times, the result is markets that are highly liquid and very fast.

Decades ago, the size of an order that could be executed was limited by the capital available to the stock exchange specialist, and it was necessary for Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs and Salomon Brothers to fill the role for large institutional orders. There are enough high-frequency firms that big orders can now be filled quickly and at lower costs.

However, those high-frequency traders have no obligation to hang around and continue to make markets when things get dicey. There was plenty of criticism of the specialists and market makers in the old days. We are approaching the 25th anniversary of the 1987 crash, when many Nasdaq market makers panicked and decided that the safer course was to not answer their phones.

But the market makers generally met their responsibilities. If they were unwilling to do so, perhaps because of a flood of orders to sell a particular stock, the market in that stock would simply shut down for a time. That pause would give others time to see what was happening, and anyone who thought the market move was unreasonable could step in and offer to buy the stock.

Now, many of the high-frequency traders — who have no power to halt trading, even if their computers somehow concluded that was wise — have simply programmed their computers to get out of a market if it is going crazy. The result is that markets may have far less liquidity when that liquidity is needed most.

To get the advantages that come with being listed as market makers, high-frequency firms were required to usually have offers posted to buy and sell the stocks in which they made markets. That rule led to the stub bid. If things were going crazy, the firm would put in a bid of $1 a share for a $40 stock. It met the requirement, but obviously no one would be stupid enough to sell at that price.

Unless that someone were a computer.

During the flash crash, sell orders in some stocks overwhelmed demand for the stocks. Computers looked for the best bid, and eventually that bid was the $1 stub. So trades were executed at the price. Stub bids are no longer allowed, but there is still plenty that can go wrong.

Exchanges are less colorful now. Commodity markets were once filled with screaming traders wagging their fingers and trying to get the attention of some other trader who was offering to sell what the trader wanted to buy. Now there are far fewer traders on the floor, assuming there is still a floor, and those who remain are as likely to be typing orders into their iPads as they are to be communicating with one of the other humans.

But in at least one strange way, the past has returned. Once you had to be close to the exchange floor to trade. An etching of the financial district during a panic in 1873, published in Harpers Weekly, shows dozens of wires between buildings. If you weren’t instantly connected, you were at a major disadvantage.

And so it is now. The people programming and running computers for high-frequency traders may be anywhere, but their computers need to be as close as possible to the computers of the exchanges where they trade. Some traders pay exchanges for that proximity. That way they can see orders a fraction of a second faster than their competitors, and withdraw their own orders faster when the computer programs indicate that is wise.

High-frequency trading got its start in stocks, but it has spread to commodities and changed trading patterns there. The computers search for correlations between different markets, and try to take advantage of them before others can do so. The result is that markets that once tended to trade in the same direction much of the time now almost always do, particularly when one market starts to move.

That was on display Thursday.

As stock markets fell in reaction to disappointing news from the European Central Bank, oil and copper prices immediately moved the same way. Bond prices rose. It was less that anyone had grown negative on copper and more that computers calculated that the two markets would move together, and assured that they did.

What can be done to preserve the advantages of technology and avoid the disasters?

Perhaps not very much. Regulators can put in rules, and programmers can put in programs, to avoid Wednesday’s mistake. But in complex systems, there may be unforeseen results of any one fix, and the profits from being first to put in some new system may lead to the use of programs with undetected flaws.

If the errors of today are too much to accept, we may have to give up some of the advantages of innovation. That could mean slower markets, with more chance for human intervention, or a move to raise trading costs enough to make some strategies that rely on fast and frequent trades simply too expensive to be worth the effort.
88 2012-08-03 Unfortunately, the administration’s initial debt relief efforts were ineffectual: Officials imposed so many restrictions to avoid giving relief to “undeserving” debtors that the program went nowhere. More recently, however, the administration has gotten a lot more serious about the issue.

And the obvious place to provide debt relief is on owned by and , the government-sponsored lenders that were effectively nationalized in the waning days of the .

The idea of using Fannie and Freddie has bipartisan support. Indeed, Columbia’s Glenn Hubbard, a top Romney adviser, has called on Fannie and Freddie to let homeowners with little or no equity refinance their mortgages, which could sharply cut their interest payments and provide a major boost to the economy. The Obama administration supports this idea and has also proposed a special program of relief for deeply troubled borrowers.

But , the acting director of the agency that oversees Fannie and Freddie, refuses to move on refinancing. And, this week, he rejected the administration’s relief plan.

Who is Ed DeMarco? He’s a civil servant who became acting director of the housing finance agency after the Bush-appointed director resigned in 2009. He is still there, in the fourth year of the Obama administration, because Senate Republicans have blocked attempts to install a permanent director. And he evidently just hates the idea of providing debt relief.

Mr. DeMarco’s letter rejecting the relief plan made remarkably weak arguments. He claimed that the plan, while improving his agency’s financial position thanks to subsidies from the , would be a net loss to taxpayers — a conclusion not supported by his own staff’s analysis, which showed a net gain. And it’s worth pointing out that many private lenders have offered the very kinds of principal reductions Mr. DeMarco rejects — even though these lenders, unlike the government, have no incentive to take into account the way debt relief would strengthen the economy.

The main point, however, is that Mr. DeMarco seems to misunderstand his job. He’s supposed to run his agency and secure its finances — not make national economic policy. If the Treasury secretary, acting for the president, seeks to subsidize debt relief in a way that actually strengthens the finance agency, the agency’s chief has no business blocking that policy. Doing so should be a firing offense.

Can Mr. DeMarco be fired right away? I’ve been seeing conflicting analyses on that point, although one thing is clear: President Obama, if re-elected, can, and should, replace him through a . In fact, he should have done that years ago. As I said, Mr. Obama has made plenty of mistakes.

But the DeMarco affair nonetheless demonstrates, once again, the extent to which U.S. economic policy has been crippled by unyielding, irresponsible political opposition. If our economy is still deeply depressed, much — and I would say most — of the blame rests not with Mr. Obama but with the very people seeking to use that depressed economy for political advantage.
89 2012-08-03 Jeremy Hunt, the culture and sport minister in the Cameron cabinet, said Thursday that people who saw the Olympics as an economic body blow were premature and taking too narrow a view. The government now acknowledges that there is unlikely to be any short-term boost from the Games. It has reassured those nervous about its outlay on the Games — put at about $15 billion by government officials and as high as $20 billion by some experts, with road, railway and other improvements factored in — that the expense will be recouped in the long term by a $20 billion boost in ’s trade.

“Having the Olympics in London is the best possible gift you could ask for because it has given London a profile on the global stage,” Mr. Hunt said, to the surprise of those who might have thought that London was already well established as one of the world’s major cities.

Mayor , one of the Games’ biggest boosters, has made a midcourse correction of his own. He has admitted that the instant Olympic bounce he once forecast for London’s economy has evaporated, replaced by a “patchy” performance across many important sectors. But holding out for a turnaround, he has said things could improve as people realize that London without the crowds has become an unusually inviting place to go.

Perhaps the most striking feature of the past week has been the absence of traffic congestion. Transport for London, which oversees the city’s transit system, warned on Thursday that 200,000 people were expected to head to Olympic Park on Friday for the start of the track and field competition, double the number who showed up on any previous day of the Games so far.

But mostly, the emphasis has been on pulling back from the forebodings that characterized the prelude to the Games. Many of the so-called Zil lanes on roads running to Games sites, named for the V.I.P. limousines that ran in dedicated lanes across in the Soviet era, have been opened to everyday traffic.

Trains and subway lines have run smoothly. Recordings of Mr. Johnson urging people not to “get caught” in the Olympic crush — and to work from home if they can — have played across eerily quiet concourses at mainline stations like King’s Cross, and Waterloo.

Normally crowded sidewalks in areas like Knightsbridge, Street, Bond Street, Piccadilly and Soho have looked much as they do when the city empties for summer weekends. Tables at sidewalk cafes have gone begging, and tickets to the West End’s normally sold-out hit shows are readily available, often at 20 percent discounts.

Cabdrivers complain that business is down 30 percent from normal at this time of year. “Where are the million extra visitors that we were promised?” asked Steve McNamara, a spokesman for the Licensed Taxi Drivers’ Association. He coupled this with a palpable absence of the national pride Mr. Cameron has urged on a nation hosting its first Olympics since 1948. “I’m looking forward to the closing ceremony,” on Aug. 12, Mr. McNamara said.

Hundreds of West End hotels that had advertised rooms at premium prices, in some cases five times the normal rate, have dropped prices back to the usual level or even offered heavy discounts. One of the few places that is doing a roaring trade is the campsite at the Lea Valley Waterworks Center, a golf course and nature reserve within sight of the Olympic Park. Angie Oliver, general manager of the center, said Friday that she expected a full house of 1,600 campers this weekend. “People just don’t want to pay extortionate prices for hotels,” she said.

Stores in the upscale West End shopping district have said sales are down by 10 percent and more, and restaurants used to turning people away are desperate for trade. Ricky McMenemy, managing director of the restaurant in Covent Garden, popular with Americans for a menu specializing in traditional British foods, said that after a “disaster” last Friday, when diners stayed away to watch the opening ceremony, the restaurant was “seeing a 50 percent downturn” in diners this week.

Still, Mr. McMenemy shared Mr. Johnson’s optimism that things would look up as people realized that the warnings of crowding were overstated. “There are some amber flags up at the moment, but there’s no need for any red ones to be waved just yet,” he said.

But the stoicism has been rare. Nica Burns, chief executive of Nimax Theaters, which owns six of the West End’s best-known show houses, said the week before the Olympics began had been the worst week of the year, The Evening Standard reported. “We’re bleeding,” she was quoted as saying. “I think the Olympics are great, but I feel like I’ve been the bull’s-eye for the archery competition.”
90 2012-08-03 “This has nothing to do” with the gay journalists’ group or its mission, said Greg Lee, the president of the N.A.B.J. “It has to do with Unity acquiescing to a group that just got there.” The black journalists’ group, the largest of the four minority organizations, held its own conference this year in New Orleans; Mr. Lee said that more than 2,300 journalists attended.

David Steinberg, the president of the gay journalists’ group, said including his group in the alliance meant that “the name Unity: Journalists of Color just wasn’t accurate anymore.”

Mr. Steinberg said the organizations in Unity should define themselves less by who they are and more by their shared goals. “The mission of Unity has always been the mission of N.L.G.J.A.,” he said. “Opposing newsroom bias against minorities and working toward fair representation of minorities in the newsroom.”

For some, though, the rift is unfortunate. Michelle Johnson, a member of both the black and gay journalists’ groups, and an associate professor of multimedia journalism at the Boston University Department of Journalism, said the split had been difficult for her personally.

“As somebody who is both a lesbian and a member of N.L.G.J.A. and the other part of me is an African-American, it’s like a divorce in my family,” Ms. Johnson said. “Because I’m part of more than one of these groups I can see the overlap in the mission, and I can see why we should be working together.”

LZ Granderson, a member of both the black and the gay journalists’ groups and a journalist at ESPN and CNN, said N.A.B.J.’s refusal to rejoin Unity after the name change risked making the organization look “intolerant and maybe even a bit dated.”

“The large spectrum of diversity is no longer limited to talks of race and color,” Mr. Granderson said. “I think that oversimplifies our understanding of diversity. You can hire four or five people of color, but that still doesn’t mean you will get diversity of thought.”

He cited Anderson Cooper, who only recently publicly acknowledged being gay, as an example of how gay journalists — even successful white journalists — still feel reluctant to come out. “As long as that fear is out there, that it could still hurt your career, there’s still room for N.L.G.J.A. at the table,” he said.

Lynne K. Adrine, an N.A.B.J. member and director of the graduate program for broadcast and digital journalism at the S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University, attended the black journalists’ conference in New Orleans, but did not plan to attend Unity because of her work schedule. She said the original name for Unity was “a clearer statement of its purpose.”

Joanna Hernandez, the president of Unity, said she initially was saddened by the change, but decided that ultimately it broadened the definition of diversity. “We have a lot more in common that we think,” she said. “We need to talk about the reality of the situation and put everything on the table that maybe this thing helped bring out.”

As of Wednesday, Ms. Hernandez said about 2,000 journalists were expected to attend the conference. In 2008, more than 6,500 journalists, exhibitors and sponsors registered for the conference, which was held in Chicago.

Doris Truong, the president of the Asian-American journalists’ group, said the name change reflected the changing demographics in the organization, but not a change in the Unity mission. “We are not deviating from that at all,” Ms. Truong said.

Rhonda LeValdo, the president of the Native American group, said any perception of infighting among Unity board members about the name change was inaccurate. “N.L.G.J.A. never put their foot down,” she said. “It was never a forced situation. I have the utmost respect for everybody in that room. We went into it friends; we came out of it friends.”

Michele Salcedo, the president of Hispanic journalists’ group, refused to comment on the changes.

Some of the tension over the inclusion of gay journalists’ group stems from the lack of racial and ethnic diversity among its members, a fact recognized by Mr. Steinberg, who said the group was trying to increase diversity in its ranks. “I know the perception among some folks of color is that N.L.G.J.A. is an organization run by a bunch of white guys,” said Ms. Johnson of Boston University. But she added, “there are white guys that are in the organization who have also faced discrimination in the newsroom.”
91 2012-08-03 These Am-I-or-Aren’t-I-Alive tales sprout up here and there with a certain wearying regularity. A person fleeing personal turbulence of some stripe — financial woes, marital discord, malfeasance — vanishes into the ocean or off the side of a cliff. But it is actually a calculated ruse to facilitate escape. The individual eventually turns up breathing quite well in Antigua.

Or something like that.

Something like that may or may not have transpired on Jones Beach on Saturday afternoon. Around 3:30, a 22-year-old man called 911 and reported that his father had swum into the ocean and not come back. He said that this occurred east of Field 6, in an area unprotected by lifeguards. The son told the police that he had been preoccupied with text messages on his phone and had not paid much attention to his father’s activities.

The father is Raymond Roth, 47, who lives in Massapequa, on Long Island, and who has described himself as a telecommunications manager. His son, Jonathan, said that the two of them had gone alone to the beach. Raymond Roth’s wife, Evana, showed up a half-hour later, and the police said she indicated she was fretful that her husband had drowned.

The matter became the province of the New York State Park Police, which oversees Jones Beach. An extensive search involving a helicopter, boats and the beach patrol was put in motion, involving not only the Park Police but also the Coast Guard, the Nassau County police and nearby firefighters, among others. According to the police, the family said that Mr. Roth was a devoted swimmer who went to the beach virtually every day.

Other beachgoers who had been in the area where Jonathan Roth said he was sitting were interviewed by the police. None had spotted his father.

The search continued in vain until Wednesday evening, when it was halted. That is because Robert Roth, the brother of Raymond Roth, contacted the police and said that Mr. Roth was not somewhere in the ocean but was in fact in Florida and that his wife knew of his whereabouts.
92 2012-08-03 “We’re going to make a pool here,” one construction worker joked to an elderly woman who had stopped to inspect the work. “Get your bikini out!”

The woman, who would give her name only as Helen, said she had been avidly following the proceedings. “People are coming from all over,” she said. “It’s on the TV all the time.”

Down the block, Frank Colao, 60, who has lived on 78th Street and Fifth Avenue since 1968, had found some shady steps from which to observe the activity. He said he had planned to walk to a mall, but when an acquaintance came by to tell him about the collapse, he decided to have a look.

“I got nothing better to do,” Mr. Colao said. “Never a dull moment in Bay Ridge.”

Like several other longtime Bay Ridge residents, Mr. Colao had a sinkhole story or two, like the time, many years ago, when a Cadillac cruised along 78th Street only to fall into a big hole. Jerry Ferretti, a lifelong local resident, said he could recall several sinkholes opening up in the area over the past 60 years, including two that swallowed trucks.

The city said the current sinkhole opened up after a 112-year-old sewer pipe burst 20 feet beneath the surface. Workers spent two hours extracting a teetering car from the hole. They were expected to finish repairs by the end of the weekend, said Chris Gilbride, a spokesman for the Department of Environmental Protection.

As work continued, it seemed every Bay Ridge resident had become a sinkhole expert. Some speculated that the soil had been weakened after utility repairs earlier in the week. Mr. Ferretti advanced another theory: because the neighborhood was originally built into a hillside, he said, the soil was never stable to begin with.

But authorities emphasized that the aging pipe — not the weather or the utility work — ultimately did the street in. Sinkholes are caused by water that seeps through cracks in the roadway or from underneath and that washes away the soil, creating a cavity under the street, Mr. Gilbride said.

Brian Guagliardi sized the sinkhole up with an expert eye. “Looks like about 12 feet or so,” he said to his wife as he hurried down 79th Street.

Mr. Guagliardi deemed the summer’s first sinkhole, on 92nd Street, deeper — about 60 feet. (The city said the June sinkhole is still undergoing repairs because of its depth.)

“We’re getting used to it, unfortunately,” said Mr. Guagliardi, adding that he witnessed a third sinkhole in more recent years. He and his wife tossed a few nickname ideas back and forth. Her suggestion: “Hole-y Street.” And his? “Number three.”

Whatever their beliefs about its origins, the area’s residents were united in exasperation and a little hand-wringing — and, in one case, the discovery of a shared past.

Ann Kelly, 86, had stopped to survey the damage on her way back from a manicure. She gave Evelyn McCabe, whose house stands a few yards away from the sinkhole, a sympathetic smile. “It’s a mess, it really is,” she said.

“Oh, it’s terrible, it’s awful,” Ms. McCabe said, shaking her head. As it turned out, the two women grew up around the corner from each other and attended the same church.

“Someone called me and said, ‘Bay Ridge is underwater!’ Because so many things have happened,” Ms. Kelly told Ms. McCabe. “But I would never leave.”
93 2012-08-03 The state promised some financial support to accomplish the changes.

Mr. Barotz said that Interfaith — which has 287 beds, 120 of them psychiatric — needed $10 million to $30 million to keep going, depending on how long it had to wait for a reorganization. He said Interfaith officials recognized that the state, given its own financial constraints and policy mandates for less hospital-centered care, was loath to subsidize ailing hospitals, as it did with St. Vincent’s Hospital Manhattan before it went bankrupt and closed in 2010. But he contended that if an infusion of cash would keep Interfaith open until it could be reconfigured, “that would be a relatively inexpensive price to pay.”

James Introne, the Cuomo administration’s deputy secretary for health, said that the State Health Department had been watching the situation at Interfaith closely, and that he believed the hospital would be able to hold on until a plan to integrate with Brooklyn Hospital was developed.

“It’s a question of when they’re going to run out of cash,” Mr. Introne said. “Neither the Health Department nor they have indicated to me that there’s an urgent situation there.”

In a twist, one member of the Cuomo administration panel was Ramon Rodriguez, a former managed-care executive and a former State Parole Board chairman in the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s father, Mario. In late December, after the panel made its recommendations, Wyckoff’s trustees ousted their chief executive, who had been caught up in a conflicts-of-interest investigation, and replaced him with Mr. Rodriguez.

Asked if he was repudiating the plan he had supported as a panel member, Mr. Rodriguez said that “people make mistakes,” and that he had since been “educated” by his trustees and medical staff. He said he was interested in collaborating on some operations, like psychiatry, with Interfaith, but believed that Brooklyn Hospital Center served a different market and would steal market share from Wyckoff without offering enough in return. But he said he would not rule out working with Brooklyn Hospital.

Mr. Rodriguez said that Wyckoff had increased its cash flow by recapturing some billings from doctors and by recruiting new doctors, and that his focus was on attracting more middle-class, insured patients from Queens, which already accounts for half of Wyckoff’s business. The hospital is close to the Queens border.

As if contemplating a marketing slogan, Mr. Rodriguez suggested that the area around Brooklyn Hospital was a good place to eat Junior’s cheesecake and to go to the Brooklyn Academy of Music, but that Wyckoff was the place where people in Bushwick and south Queens would go to get health care. “Geography is destiny,” he said.

Dr. Richard Becker, the chief executive of Brooklyn Hospital Center, declined to comment on whether he could see integrating with Interfaith but not with Wyckoff. As to whether Brooklyn Hospital was trying to steal from Wyckoff’s market share, he said: “I guess everybody’s entitled to their own perspective. It’s a very dynamic market.”

Mr. Barotz said that at a meeting in May between state officials and hospital executives, Mr. Rodriguez declared that he was not interested in combining operations with Brooklyn Hospital and Interfaith. At that point, Mr. Barotz said, “Jim Introne said, in essence, ‘We wish you the best,’ and he started to get out of his chair,” and Mr. Rodriguez relented.

But since then, Mr. Barotz said, Mr. Rodriguez has expressed opposition to Brooklyn Hospital’s being the lead hospital and has balked at sharing financial information, making it all but impossible to come up with a realistic plan.

“They won’t come to the table,” Mr. Barotz said. “They’re off on their own.”

Mr. Introne said Wyckoff’s decision was “unfortunate,” adding, “The prospects for assuring the viability of all of those institutions would have been enhanced to the extent that Wyckoff was willing to participate in seeking a common solution, but they declined.”
94 2012-08-03 And luxury showed some signs of slowing, though July is typically a clearance month and not of huge interest to shoppers who want the latest fashions.

Saks’s comparable-store sales rose 3.5 percent and Nordstrom’s rose 0.9 percent, both lower figures than the stores has reported for most of the months this year. Analysts had expected Saks to gain 4 percent and Nordstrom’s to drop 2.7 percent.

Nordstrom’s said that a week of its popular anniversary sale was taking place in August rather than July this year, hurting the July numbers, although apparently not to the extent that analysts expected.

Mr. Donnelly said he believed the lower-than-usual luxury numbers had to do with fewer European tourists and few compelling reasons for high-end shoppers to visit stores in July.

Midrange stores, including Target, Costco, Kohl’s and Macy’s, all reported comparable sales above analysts’ expectations. But executives remained cautious, like the chairman and chief executive of Macy’s, Terry J. Lundgren, who said he was seeing “some challenges from a sluggish macroeconomic environment.”

Among apparel stores, Gap Inc. and Limited Brands were the standouts, with comparable-store sales gains of 10 percent for Gap Inc. and 12 percent for Limited Brands, both more than 6 percentage points higher than analysts had estimated. Plans to turn around the long-limping Gap stores showed some results, with that brand posting a 13 percent increase in same-store sales.

Regarding the poor performance of stores that aim at the teenage market, Mr. Donnelly pointed to the warm weather in the spring, which would have gotten teenagers buying summer clothes well ahead of July, as part of the reason for the slow month.

Wet Seal, which fired its chief executive last month, said its same-store sales for July declined 15.6 percent. The Buckle said its sales fell 0.1 percent.

Aéropostale, whose results were not included in the Thomson Reuters average figures, said its comparable-store sales for the second quarter decreased 1 percent, and that was as compared to a 14 percent second-quarter decrease last year.

Thomas P. Johnson, the company’s chief executive, said that decreased store traffic was to blame for the results.

Aéropostale said it now did not expect to earn or lose any money in the second quarter; previously, it had said it expected to earn 3 to 5 cents a share.

Yet some teenage-oriented stores hummed along, like Zumiez, where same-store sales were up 7.5 percent.
95 2012-08-03 The trading firm Knight Capital recently rushed to develop a computer program so it could take advantage of a new Wall Street venue for trading stocks.     But the firm ran up against its deadline and failed to fully work out the kinks in its syst...
96 2012-08-03 As the leader of one of the largest brokerage firms in the nation, Thomas M. Joyce has been an unapologetic advocate of electronic trading and one of the most vociferous critics of companies that struggled to keep up with the ever-changing stock m...
97 2012-08-03 TOKYO - A government investigation into insider trading here has extended onto the trading floors of some of Wall Street's largest companies, including Goldman Sachs, UBS and Deutsche Bank.     Regulators are scrutinizing suspicious trading activi...
98 2012-08-04 Mardy Fish and Tommy Haas will meet in the Citi Open semifinals Saturday in Washington, their first matchup since 2007. Fish beat Xavier Malisse, 6-3, 6-4, to set up a meeting with Hass, who routed Tobias Kamke, 6-1, 6-2. Haas is 3-1 against Fish.

Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova advanced to the women’s final with a 4-6, 7-5, 6-4 victory over Vania King. She will face Magdalena Rybarikova, a 6-3, 6-3 winner over Sloane Stephens.
99 2012-08-04 The idea is simple enough. In his mind’s eye, Dr. Lorente, 51, sees a network of national databanks storing the DNA of parents who have lost children. That way when children are found, even years later, they can be matched. He also sees such databanks as playing a crucial role in preventing the adoptions of stolen children and in dismantling trafficking rings.

“This is all doable, and we should be doing it,” Dr. Lorente said. He acknowledges it is a large ambition for a civilian running genetics labs in one of Spain’s smaller cities, a subject, he said, that sometimes comes up at his home. “My wife says, ‘So, you are Don Quixote, right?’ ”

Dr. Lorente laughs. But he argues that his idea makes sense and will eventually take hold. In the meantime, the foundation he set up in 2004, DNA-Prokids, has been providing willing countries with thousands of free DNA tests and DNA collection kits. So far, he says, the free tests have been used in reuniting about 550 children with their families, most of them in Guatemala and Peru. The tests have also stopped more than 200 illegal adoptions.

Dr. Lorente believes that adoptions should always involve genetic testing to make sure the parents giving away the child are really the parents. And he says that 80 percent of the world’s street children have families who would gladly take them back if they could be found.

He had a leg up, he says, when he decided to pursue the idea of DNA databanks. He knew a lot of the right people. He had spent more than a year doing research in the labs at the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s training center at Quantico, Va., in the early 1990s. At the time, he was helping to develop ways to match DNA even when the sample was badly deteriorated — for instance, if it came from blood that had been sitting in the sun for a long time.

BUT in the evenings, he ate in the cafeteria with everyone else on the sprawling campus, including the many foreigners who had come to Quantico for training, people who would later became important figures in their own countries.

“They became ministers and police chiefs, and they kept inviting me to come consult,” he said. “So when I traveled I was talking to them about this, too.”

Some of the free tests are performed in Granada, some at the University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth, where his former boss at the F.B.I. lab, Bruce Budowle, is now the executive director of the Institute of Applied Genetics. Dr. Budowle says Dr. Lorente has a knack for pushing this particular agenda. “He is an excellent communicator who really excels at talking to the higher-level people,” Dr. Budowle said. “And he has the passion.”

Dr. Lorente says there is a real excitement to working on big-name cases like identifying the remains of Columbus and Bolívar. But it is the more intimate cases that stay with him longer.

“When you can look at a mother and you can say, ‘O.K., we have found your son’s body,’ ” he said, “that, for me, is huge.”

Dr. Lorente was born into a family of doctors and always loved science. The only question was what kind of doctor he would be. Then, when he was in medical school, a professor suggested that he write a paper on DNA analysis — in those days a brand-new area of research. He was hooked.

AT home in Spain, he runs two labs at the University of Granada, one that focuses purely on forensic genetics and one that concentrates on cancer research, using similar techniques to isolate and analyze tumor cells. He travels about 10 times a year, making his pitch wherever he goes.

Until recently, however, he had never met any of the families DNA-Prokids helped reunite. But the company that developed some of the test kits used by his foundation decided to make a promotional video and flew him to California to meet Brenda Corado, who had been reunited with her daughter, Angela, in Guatemala.

Ms. Corado had been walking on the street with Angela, then 21 days old, when two men got out of a car, snatched the baby from her arms and beat her until she passed out. What the men intended to do with the child is unclear. But Dr. Lorente believes that they probably intended to make money putting the child up for adoption.

Two months later, however, an infant girl was abandoned at a Christian television station in Guatemala and, using DNA analysis, the police were able to identify that baby as Angela.

“I just saw how she looked,” Dr. Lorente said of his first meeting with Ms. Corado. “What could she say? You don’t make money at this. But you do feel proud.”
100 2012-08-04 In fact, at that moment the Federal Reserve, under a new chairman, Paul A. Volcker, had begun to raise interest rates sharply, producing back-to-back recessions, in 1980 and 1982, that at last broke the back of inflation, but at the cost of painfully high unemployment.

Paul Winston McCracken was born on Dec. 29, 1915, in Richland, Iowa. His father, a farmer, and his uncle, an economics teacher, encouraged him to study economics at William Penn College (now University) in Oskaloosa, Iowa. He graduated in 1937 and then taught for three years at Berea College in Kentucky, where he met Emily Ruth Siler, a student teacher.

They married in 1942, the same year Mr. McCracken received a master’s from Harvard in economics and went to work at the Commerce Department in Washington. From 1943 to 1948 he was a researcher at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, while completing a Ph.D., also at Harvard. Then he joined the faculty at what is now the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan.

Mr. McCracken was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1956 to 1959 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He advocated unsuccessfully for a tax cut to stem a major recession in 1957-58, and later said that the administration’s hands-off approach to the economy had helped bring on another recession, in 1960-61, and cost Nixon, Eisenhower’s vice president, the 1960 presidential election.

While a professor, Mr. McCracken served two Democratic presidents: John F. Kennedy, as a member of a task force on the domestic economy, and Lyndon B. Johnson, as part of a commission on budgetary accounting.

After winning the 1968 election, Nixon summoned Mr. McCracken to a meeting in New York. Asked to be chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. McCracken said he should call his wife, but Nixon replied: “I have a press conference in a few minutes, and I don’t really have much to tell them. Why don’t we just announce it there.”

The president described Mr. McCracken as “a centrist, a man who is pragmatic in his economics.”

Working for Nixon, Mr. McCracken was confronted with an inflation rate that had been rising since 1965, a byproduct of the deficits that the federal government had amassed during the Vietnam War.

In a speech in August 1969, he said inflation had “caused severe social and economic damage” and “had a socially disintegrating effect through its tendency to escalate group tensions.”

He also called for expanding unemployment insurance, reorganizing work force training, exempting the poor from federal income taxes and improving mass transit — positions that reflected the dominant liberal consensus of the times.

Mr. McCracken represented a middle ground between Johnson’s advisers, who had advocated “fine-tuning” tax policies to regulate the economy, and the conservative, laissez-faire approach of the Chicago school, led by Milton Friedman. Mr. McCracken became the architect of a policy of gradualism, which sought to slow inflation by reducing growth slightly, without causing a recession.

He hoped to slow price increases through a combination of a budget surplus, brought about when a Johnson-era tax surcharge was extended, and tighter monetary policy by the Fed, which would rein in speculation by the stock market and wage demands by unions. He warned the government not to “lock the brakes so severely that the economy would be thrown into the ditch.”

But prices continued to rise, despite a recession in 1969-70, and by mid-1970 Nixon had directed the council to issue “inflation alerts,” singling out what Mr. McCracken later called “egregious cases” of inflation, including a large jump in New York City taxicab fares.

After a momentous weekend in the presidential retreat at Camp David, Nixon decided to impose wage and price controls for the first time since the Korean War. He also unilaterally ended the Bretton Woods system under which the United States had agreed to sell gold to foreign governments for dollars at fixed exchange rates.

The controls were popular and probably a factor in Nixon’s overwhelming re-election victory in 1972, Mr. McCracken wrote.

But the controls proved unsustainable, as Mr. McCracken had warned in 1969, when he said they were “far less effective than many are now inclined to assume.” They were abandoned by 1974. “Stagflation,” a crippling combination of sluggish growth and high inflation, would continue to beleaguer the American economy until the early 1980s.

Mr. McCracken later maintained that gradualism had been working, “but its slow and erratic pace and the political requirements were not compatible.” In fact, the price controls probably “exacerbated and extended” the inflation of the 1970s, he wrote in a 1996 essay in Presidential Studies Quarterly.

Mr. McCracken returned to Michigan at the end of 1971. He was the Edmund Ezra Day distinguished university professor of business administration until his retirement in 1986.

He is survived by two daughters, Linda Langer and Paula McCracken. His wife died in 2005.
101 2012-08-04 Mali, Niger and Ivory Coast have reduced or removed taxes on a variety of imported basic foods as they try to contain rising food prices and prevent the kind of global protests seen five years ago. Grain prices hit record highs on international markets in July as drought scorched crops in the United States and Russia, prompting the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization to warn that it was concerned about prices, although it did not expect a repeat of the crisis of 2007-8. Alarm is growing that an expected fall in American grain exports could cause shortages and further increases in prices worldwide. Niger has lifted all taxes on imported cereals, and Mali has slashed taxes on imported rice and sugar as the countries seek to keep prices under control. Ivory Coast has temporarily suspended all taxes on rice imports.
102 2012-08-04 Apple took Samsung to court in a patent case with broad implications for technology innovations, and a brokerage firm’s costly software malfunction cast further doubt on high-frequency trading....
103 2012-08-04 The outcome of the Democratic strategy could hinge on its ability to keep the pressure on Mr. Romney. In a statement Friday, Mr. Reid, who has provided no evidence to back up his assertions, said that Mr. Romney’s message to voters was: “He won’t release his taxes, but he wants to raise yours.”

Mr. Romney accused Mr. Reid of trying to deflect attention from Friday’s jobs report, in which the unemployment rate increased to 8.3 percent. And he said he believed Mr. Reid was in cahoots with Mr. Obama’s White House.

“I wouldn’t be at all surprised to hear the names are people from the White House or the Obama campaign,” Mr. Romney said.

Mr. Reid and Mr. Romney share a common faith and deep connections to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. But Mr. Reid’s attacks do not appear to be driven by any private history between them, and Mr. Reid has repeatedly said he does not know Mr. Romney.

“I’ve never met the man. I’m sure he’s a nice person,” he told in a 2007 interview.

Instead, Mr. Reid appears to be once again reprising a rhetorical technique he has mastered over 25 years in the Senate: repeatedly needling his Republican adversaries in ways that often push the boundaries of political propriety.

During the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. Reid repeatedly taunted Senator of , the Republican nominee, saying he should show leadership. He was quoted in a Las Vegas newspaper saying, “I can’t stand John McCain.”

In 2005, Mr. Reid said of  President : “This guy is a loser.” He later apologized for that remark, but stood by another claim that Mr. Bush had been “a liar” while in office.

Mr. Reid called Senator , the Republican leader from 2003 to 2007, “amateurish,” and said in 2007 that Gen. , then the chairman of the , was “incompetent.” Mr. Reid once said that , the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, was “one of the biggest political hacks we have in Washington.”

Coming to Mr. Romney’s defense, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Reid on Thursday of sometimes displaying “rather erratic behavior” and said, “Harry might’ve gone over the line here.” And on Friday, Senator of , the Republican leader, said Mr. Reid had once again used the Senate “as a forum for his baseless accusations.”

“Frankly, it’s beneath the dignity of his office,” Mr. McConnell said.

But in the Democratic offensive against Mr. Romney on taxes, Mr. Reid is only the tip of the spear as Democrats in the House and Senate use  their offices to keep up the drumbeat about Mr. Romney’s refusal to release more than two years of his tax returns.

Top Democrats in the House on Thursday mentioned Mr. Romney in a letter to and Labor Department officials on reports that tax-preferred accounts, like , are sometimes misused as tax shelters for the rich.

Representative Sander Levin of , the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, promised legislation in July mandating that presidential candidates release 10 years of tax returns, along with the location, value and economic purpose of all accounts and investments.

That followed legislation introduced in late March by Senators , Democrat of , and , Democrat of , that would require members of Congress and candidates for federal office to include in their financial disclosure filings an accounting of any financial interest in a country considered a tax haven.

“It’s a boxer’s instinct,” Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said on Friday afternoon. “You find your opponent’s weak spot, and until he finds a defense, you keep pounding it.”

Mr. Jentleson said that Mr. Reid has no intention of backing down from his comments. But the senator also has no intention of providing more information about his sources for the allegation.

“He’s not making this up,” Mr. Jentleson said. “This is what he believed to be true based on the conversation he had.”

At his stop in Las Vegas, Mr. Romney addressed Mr. Reid directly, saying, “So, Harry, who are your sources?” and trying to shrug off the accusations as nothing more than political spin in an election year.

“By the way, Harry, I understand what you are trying to do here,” Mr. Romney said, noting the increase in the unemployment rate. “You are trying to deflect the fact that jobs numbers are bad.”
104 2012-08-04 Every year, some Obama supporters have gathered all over the country to “celebrate” his birthday — that is, to share his message and sign up converts. But in the coming days, they will hold no fewer than 1,000 birthday-themed events, from North Carolina (knocking on 51 doors) to California (calling 51 voters).

Birthday fund-raisers are a familiar tactic that may have reached an apotheosis in 1962, when Marilyn Monroe sang to President John F. Kennedy at a Madison Square Garden rally attended by 15,000 people and broadcast on television. In 1996, President Bill Clinton filled Radio City Music Hall for a 50th-birthday fund-raiser that brought in $10 million.

But the one at the Obamas’ home will have a specific 2012 spin, reflecting the illusion of intimacy on which campaigns now thrive. In recent years, win-a-visit-with-Barack (or Mitt or Ann or Joe, or Sarah Jessica Parker or Marc Anthony) sweepstakes have become a signal fund-raising tactic for both sides. A recent Obama event at George Clooney’s home demonstrates why: The campaign collected $15 million, according to organizers. Less than half of that came from the Hollywood types who paid $40,000 a ticket; the rest came from a sea of supporters who made small donations and entered an online contest to win seats.

The formula has proved so lucrative that Mitt Romney’s campaign advertised the chance to be introduced to Mr. Romney and his vice-presidential nominee: a contest to meet a political partner who does not yet exist. Aside from harvesting new e-mail addresses, the contests allow the campaigns to “drive their small-dollar contributions off their big-donor contributions,” said Anthony Corrado, a campaign finance expert at Colby College.

Months after winning the Clooney contest, Karen Blutcher, 45, a communications manager for a utility company in St. Augustine, Fla., still sounded thunderstruck that she had met the president and mingled with stars. “The entire event was a lifelong memory,” she said in an interview.

A warning to this month’s lucky winner: The celebration at the Obama home will be considerably less cozy than the e-mailed invitations suggest. The event is not a social gathering; it is one of four fund-raisers that Mr. Obama will race through that day in Chicago. Despite a gracious invitation that the first lady e-mailed to supporters, she is not planning to attend, a campaign official said.

Donors may dream of tinkling the keys on the family piano or leafing through private photos, but much of the action will take place in the backyard. The finalists will be chosen at random, but the contest winners will be selected as reality show contestants are, to make sure their stories fit. (Ms. Blutcher comes from a hotly contested state and supports Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul because she has a son with special needs.)

Even the promise of being allowed in the Obamas’ house is a bit of a mirage: the first family rarely spends nights there anymore, and many Chicago friends predict they will never move back in.

Also — and the campaign does not play up this bit of fine print — charging money to enter contests is illegal. So the legions of contestants who reached into their own pockets may not know it, but they could have entered free.
105 2012-08-04 After setting a record in the first quarter of 2012, the New York police cut back on the number of warrantless stops they made from April 1 to June 30.
106 2012-08-04 Are they crazy even to try? This week, I took up the challenge of creating a financial plan for people like this — including the beginnings of a model investment portfolio — to see if such a goal was even remotely possible.

STORING YOUR MONEY It all starts with your day-to-day cash flow, so for a checking account, the opt-outters will want to do business with a credit union.

As for investments (and we’ll get to the specifics in a moment), store them in a brokerage firm at Vanguard, USAA or TIAA-CREF, all of which are member-owned or use profits to pay dividends to customers and lower their fees.

If your employer matches any money that you save for retirement, don’t turn that down out of spite for the for-profit firm that may be administering the 401(k). Keep that savings in cash if you must, but save enough to get that match.

BONDS Just because you’re trying to avoid investing with, or in, for-profit entities doesn’t mean you ought to sit out the bond market.

Consider municipal bonds, which help pay for roads and schools and other local or regional projects. “You’re basically investing in your community,” said Doug Wheat, a financial planner with Family Wealth Management in Holyoke, Mass. “Which is one of the main tenets of being a socially responsible investor.”

Vanguard’s Long-Term Tax-Exempt Fund has averaged a 6.23 percent annual return over its 35 years of existence. That’s no guarantee of long-term future performance in a world where interest rates may rise and cities are going bankrupt, but at least you can sell it if you need the money or wish to reallocate your portfolio for whatever reason.

Then there’s a curious mutual fund offering called the CRA Qualified Investment Fund. (You’ll want to look for the one that trades under the symbol CRATX.) CRA stands for Community Reinvestment Act, and the bonds it holds help banks (who buy their own shares of the CRA Qualified fund) fulfill the requirements that the act lays out.

The banks can meet the rules in part by investing a certain amount of money in affordable housing and community services for low- or moderate-income individuals, small businesses and distressed or underserved areas.

Banks now use this fund to help stay on the right side of the rules, and since 2007, individual investors have been able to as well. The annualized performance (including returns from before individual investors could play along) has been 5.16 percent.

REAL ESTATE Owning property and renting it to farmers, businesses or individuals can be a fine long-term strategy, though timing is everything, as we learned in the middle of the last decade.

But there is plenty about real estate that is nothing like owning stocks, starting with the time it takes to research a purchase. “It’s like being a vegan,” said Michelle Maton, a financial planner with Aequus Wealth Management Resources in Chicago. “You have to educate yourself if you’re going to make that choice.” After all, there is no Morningstar for buildings that are up for sale.

There are a few other things that make real estate at least as risky as owning stocks, even if you may feel better about the underlying asset. It’s not particularly liquid, so you’d better be sure you won’t need to sell quickly. The time it will take you to manage the property counts for something. Then, there are the usual tenant nonpayment and vacancy risks, plus the possibility of permanent economic decline in your region.

There is one upside: If you buy in middle age, you may pay off the mortgage just as your other savings are running out 10 or 15 years after retirement. At that point, the rental income becomes sort of an annuity.

PEER-TO-PEER LENDING In early 2011, I expressed wariness about relatively new services like Lending Club and Prosper that allow individuals to invest money in loans that other people take out. Since then, however, the services have been humming along quite nicely, delivering returns of roughly 7 percent to investors who spread their money in small bits among hundreds of loans to the most creditworthy borrowers.

Alas, regulatory hurdles prevent the companies from taking your money in some states, including Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan and Massachusetts, though residents of New York, California, Illinois and Connecticut are free to try their luck. There are other eligibility requirements, too, based on income or net worth; check the company’s Web sites for more detail.

The beauty of this investment is that the two sites exist in large part to undermine big banks. At Prosper, 46 percent of recent loans were to people who were consolidating debt from elsewhere (often from credit cards), while at Lending Club, debt consolidation and paying off higher-interest credit cards account for just over 70 percent of all loans since inception.

SLOW MONEY One emerging wild card is the Slow Money movement, a cousin to the Slow Food approach to more sustainable edibles. It helps connect food producers of various sorts with nearby people who want to invest in them somehow. It’s a little like bond investing, a little like real estate investing and a little like the peer-to-peer approach.

“Let’s just take some of our money and invest it near where we live in things we understand, starting with food,” as the movement’s founder, Woody Tasch, puts it. He describes returns as being in the “lowish single digits,” ranging from roughly 3 percent to a few percentage points higher.

Jennifer Lazarus, a financial planner in Durham, N.C., and a Slow Money investor herself, said she realized that this wasn’t an attractive enough return for many people. She is meeting next week with a local accountant, farmer and lawyer to discuss ways to appeal to more investors. “There is a desire and absolutely a need,” she said.

Higher returns mean higher risk, however, and Mr. Tasch was quick to acknowledge the concentrated bet that Slow Money investors make in any given project. “Some people have opined that this is high-risk, low-return investing,” he said. “But the next question is, risky compared to what?”

That’s the right question. Yet it’s utterly unanswerable. For people who find most for-profit companies repulsive or who can’t sleep because of fears about their stock market holdings, there is real mental health risk to investing in stocks.

But these alternatives are subject to large diversification and liquidity risks and don’t all have long-term track records.

“It is hard to be pure in this world,” said Mr. Wheat, the financial planner, who has helped many socially conscious investing clients. “People may not like buying gas for their car, but they usually end up doing that anyway. They may want to think about it in the same way, from an investment standpoint.”

At the least, ultra-alternative investors need to consider the possibility that a swing of just a percentage point in a portfolio’s average annual return can add up to hundreds of thousands of lost dollars over decades.

Perhaps that’s fine with you. But before you make a risky bet on a portfolio that looks anything like the one I laid out above, think about whether you’re prepared to save even more, spend less and work several years longer to make up for any shortfall in returns.

That may be the best way to figure out whether your principles are truly priceless.
107 2012-08-04 Stocks surged on Friday, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining more than 200 points to end a four-day losing streak, after the Labor Department reported increased hiring last month.

Markets had been slumping all week after central banks balked at taking new action to shore up the economy, as investors had hoped.

The Labor Department’s closely watched monthly jobs report gave investors hope that the economy might be doing better on its own. Employers in the United States added 163,000 jobs last month, far more than the 100,000 economists expected. From April through June, the economy added just 73,000 jobs a month on average, compared with an average of 226,000 in the first three months of the year.

“It’s one step forward,” said Joe Bell, senior equity analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. “But we would like to see continued improvement in the labor market in coming months.”

There was more to cheer about from the service sector, which employs 90 percent of Americans.

The Institute for Supply Management reported that service companies grew at a slightly faster rate in July. The institute’s services index rose to 52.6 from 52.1 in June, which was the lowest reading since January 2010. Any reading above 50 means business is growing for service providers.
108 2012-08-04 In the morning, Wambach slides into a set of waist-high boots that look sort of like a fishing waders. The boots, which Wambach said were sent to many United States athletes by the manufacturer, NormaTec, are essentially advanced compression devices. The boots are designed to promote enhanced circulation or, according to Wambach, “push the bad stuff out and get your good stuff moving.” According to company Web site, the technology is used by a variety of athletes across several major team sports, as well as cyclists, runners and the United States Navy SEALs.

Though not particularly convenient, the routine has been worthwhile for Wambach. With matches every two days during the Games _ and a semifinal against Britain or Canada looming Monday _ she cannot afford to be weary.

This has not been a problem, so far. Despite having played all but 12 minutes of her team’s four matches, Wambach has been fresh and energetic as she works with Alex Morgan, a rising star striker. In the buildup to the Games, Morgan was the Americans’ player of the moment, the fresh face whose fame grew rapidly after a sparkling performance last summer at the World Cup.

But since the Olympic tournament began, Wambach has been the most indispensable American threat. On Friday, she showed it again, slipping behind the New Zealand defense and sliding into what Wambach said the players call a “shross” or a “crot” — something between a cross and a shot — from Morgan to give the United States a 1-0 lead after 27 minutes.

Given the attention attracted by the Americans’ goal celebration in its last game — a break-dancing routine that was capped by two players doing the worm on the field — many in the crowd of 10, 441 were surely anticipating what might come at St. James’ Park. The Americans did not disappoint, either, showing off a tribute to the Olympic gymnasts by doing a group cartwheel routine.

New Zealand Coach Tony Readings, who roundly praised the Americans’ play, was less effusive when it came to the celebration. “We wouldn’t do it,” he said. “I wouldn’t like it if our team did that.”

The American players seem unbothered by any criticism. Morgan said, “The celebration was dedicated to the USA Gymnastics team,” noting that the Americans all watched Gabby Douglas win a gold medal on Thursday.

Morgan was replaced in the 80th minute Friday after sustaining what she called a “dead leg” in a collision with the New Zealand goalkeeper, but she does not expect it to be a long-term issue. Her replacement, Sydney Leroux, wasted no time, scoring her first Olympic goal minutes before the final whistle.

Unlike her team’s earlier celebration, Leroux’s was unscripted. She sprinted to midfield, her face a display of excitement and disbelief. At one point, she nearly broke down in tears as her teammates embraced her.

To Wambach, who has seen so much, it was the perfect ending.

“Best celebration I’ve seen yet,” she said.
109 2012-08-04 Viacom said Friday that it would develop more than a dozen new television series and movies for its struggling Nickelodeon channel. The announcement came minutes after the company said its profit fell 7 percent in the most recent quarter, driven b...
110 2012-08-04 The fact that women continue to earn less than men has been well documented. And while part of that pay gap can be explained away, there is still a significant piece that cannot.     But new research suggests that the wage gap may potentially be a...
111 2012-08-05 The investigation into the manipulation of the Libor benchmark interest rate has led banks to seek to implicate their rivals, according to government and bank officials....
112 2012-08-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
113 2012-08-05 Apple, by going to a jury trial to defend the patents of its most prized products, is allowing competitors and the public to see inside one of the most secretive companies in the world....
114 2012-08-05 This week's winner wrote a thoughtful, evenhanded post about gun control in relation to the recent Aurora shooting....
115 2012-08-05 Dr. Maggie Youngha Ham and Dr. Hamed Nayeb-Hashemi were married Saturday at the Omni Parker House hotel in Boston. The ceremony was performed by Dr. Hooshang D. Poor, a friend of the groom, who received permission from Massachusetts to officiate.

The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is a fellow in gastroenterology at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. She graduated from the University of California, Riverside, and received a medical degree from U.C.L.A.

She is the daughter of Yuhea Ham and Dr. Chan Ham of Los Angeles. The bride’s father is an internist in Los Angeles.

The groom, 31, is a fellow in gastroenterology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. He graduated summa cum laude from Northeastern University and received a medical degree from the University of Pittsburgh.

He is the son of Mina Kiani and Hamid Nayeb-Hashemi of Newton, Mass. The groom’s mother owns the Waltham Child Care Center in Waltham, Mass. His father is a professor of electrical engineering at Northeastern, in Boston.
116 2012-08-05 PASADENA, Calif. — The future of NASA’s exploration of Mars now comes down to a struggle between gravity and a half-million lines of computer code.

Currently snug in an interplanetary spacecraft, the plutonium-powered rover called Curiosity will end its eight-and-a-half-month journey from Earth on Sunday, plowing into the Martian atmosphere at 13,000 miles per hour in a burst of fire.

When that happens, control over the $2.5 billion mission will transfer to the onboard computer, which must slow the car-sized Curiosity and execute a series of intricate maneuvers to lower it to the ground.

Because of a 14-minute communications gap between the two planets, scientists on Earth will be mere spectators. Landing was scheduled to occur at 10:31 p.m. Sunday here in Pasadena, though officials warned that confirmation of a successful touchdown could take several hours or even days.

Because of tightening budgets, NASA has already pulled out of collaborations with the European Space Agency planned for 2016 and 2018. The space agency is now contemplating what alternative missions it can fly on its own to Mars in 2018 — but nothing nearly as ambitious or expensive as Curiosity.
117 2012-08-05 CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP) — Senator Robert C. Byrd obtained secret F.B.I. documents about the civil rights movement that were leaked by the C.I.A. and set off an angry confrontation between the two agencies in the 1960s, according to newly released F.B.I. records.

Mr. Byrd, a Democrat from West Virginia who died in June 2010 at age 92, sought the intelligence because he suspected that Communists and subversives were guiding the civil rights cause, the records show. Decades before he became the longest-serving member of Congress in history, he stalled and voted against major civil rights legislation in the mid-1960s. He also belonged to the Ku Klux Klan as a young man in the 1940s, and the F.B.I. cited that membership while weighing his requests for the classified information, the records show.

“He eventually had a change of heart about a lot of that stuff,” said Ray Smock, a former historian for Congress who now oversees Mr. Byrd’s archives. Mr. Smock said Mr. Byrd’s hard-line belief in law and order played a role in his view of the civil rights movement. Mr. Byrd also repeatedly called his time with the Klan a serious mistake, Mr. Smock said.

The F.B.I. released more than 750 pages from its files, many with words, sentences or entire paragraphs redacted, in response to a Freedom of Information Act request by The Associated Press. The records date to the mid-1950s, when Mr. Byrd served in the House. He was elected to the first of his record nine terms in the Senate in 1958.

The documents that revealed the leak, which happened in September 1966, caused outrage among top F.B.I. officials and prompted an internal C.I.A. investigation that singled out two agency employees as the culprits.

The episode damaged Mr. Byrd’s standing with the bureau, though only briefly, the records show. Numerous documents depict him as an outspoken supporter of the F.B.I. and particularly of J. Edgar Hoover, its longtime director, even toward the end of Mr. Hoover’s tenure, as criticism of him mounted.
118 2012-08-05 So what is fair recompense for a wrongful death or a tragic loss? In America, he says, we’ve accepted that money is the medium, as unsatisfying as it may be. His bias is toward equal payments for every deceased victim. That has a root fairness to it — morally, every life is priceless — not to mention being much easier to administer. But with Sept. 11, he was reluctantly obliged to honor tort law, with the wrenching task of affixing an exact dollar value to each life lost.

Mr. Feinberg has concluded that the success of any public compensation fund lies in generosity — and in getting money out the door as quickly as possible. The Gulf Coast fund attracted more than a million claims and, over 16 intensive months, disbursed $6.14 billion to 575,000 claimants. Mr. Feinberg concedes that under pressure, the fund relaxed its criteria and honored some claims that “would have been laughed out of court.” But the fund also denied 420,000 claims, mostly for lack of documentation, and referred 4,000 claims for prosecution for fraud.

The Gulf Coast fund required no small feat of virtuoso administration. Mr. Feinberg assembled and directed a staff of 1,500. But it proved the maxim that no good deed goes unpunished. For the first time, he writes, his efforts did not enjoy broad national approval. The fund and Mr. Feinberg personally were targets of invective on opening day and every day thereafter. He chose, quite reasonably, not to work pro bono — but having BP pay his firm millions in fees invited grousing that he was in BP’s pocket.

Critics in the plaintiffs’ bar accused Mr. Feinberg of devising terms that practically forced people to settle quickly and on the cheap. Nonsense, he says. Human beings have a wish for closure, to get on with their lives.

Mr. Feinberg is compassionate, tough, legally creative, highly persuasive and politically shrewd. He has an endless appetite for work, an admirable taste for public service and a zest for butting heads in high-stakes negotiations. He understands that he takes the heat for the public officials who call him in. He expects no one to be happy with how he slices the pie, at least not at first, and no one to be in a reasonable mood.

Perhaps as befits a prudent mediator, he is also amazingly magnanimous, with harsh words for no one — or maybe a few, very restrained ones, for the Gulf Coast politicians who flayed him alive over the BP fund. Every lawyer, government official or Wall Street executive he ever encounters is outstanding. “Smart and combative” is a typical label for a stubborn Wall Street adversary. Mr. Feinberg not only grasps his adversaries’ motives, he cedes them principled ones. Apparently there are no dopes or dunces, no knaves, in public life.

The book starts slowly, almost throttled in its cradle, with 21 pages of unrelieved homage to four mentors, most notably Jack B. Weinstein, the federal district judge in Brooklyn who presided over the Agent Orange case, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, whom the author served as chief of staff. It’s a hymn so lavish that it is embarrassing to read.

For an accomplished legal innovator and outstanding public servant, Mr. Feinberg seems overly respectful of his political betters. If our national political and legal life were reduced to “Upstairs, Downstairs,” he would be the imperturbable butler who runs the household.

Mr. Feinberg is remarkably cool-eyed in assessing the worth of his own labors. He says he believes that the BP fund was a showpiece of enlightened corporate response to disaster, but he does not contend that his yeoman work for the Treasury Department in restraining Wall Street compensation had any lasting impact. Small beer, he says, compared with the Dodd-Frank legislation and other reforms. “As symbolic gestures go,” he said, his work was effective — “and this, of course, was exactly what Congress intended.”

He even says that the Sept. 11 fund was a bad precedent, “special rules for a select few.” Why a fund for those victims but not for those of the Oklahoma City bombing or Hurricane Katrina? He sees the fund as inherently unfair, except — and this is a huge exception — as one of a kind, a shocked nation’s heartfelt response to “an unprecedented national tragedy.” Its generosity was “vengeful philanthropy,” he said, “showing the world (and the terrorists) that Americans were still united as one.”
119 2012-08-05 She spoke from the witness stand on Wednesday before a jury and Judge H. Chester Horn Jr. in the Santa Monica division of Los Angeles County Superior Court. Ms. Adaya was occasionally flustered when fumbling for details, but she was emphatic in denying the central charge: that she had ordered the Jews to close their prearranged event, for fear that her family, who are Muslims, would cut off her financing.

“I did not, how could I?” she said at one point. “My family knows I have so many Jewish friends.”

Other testimony through the week painted a different picture of Ms. Adaya’s behavior when she showed up at one of the hotel’s poolside cabanas that Sunday to watch on television as Spain played the Netherlands in a World Cup soccer final match.

“Oh, my God,” she supposedly said on discovering the gathering, complete with a banner or two and some promotional leaflets, according to the deposition testimony of a former employee, which was read in court on Thursday.

The employee, Nathan Codrey, was not present. Lawyers for both sides and Judge Horn agreed to substitute portions of the deposition for live testimony because, they said, Mr. Codrey was out of the state and could not be served with a subpoena.

Mr. Codrey’s deposition described Ms. Adaya as repeatedly using profanity as she ordered the event — which had been arranged through a promoter, Platinum Events, with executives associated with the hotel’s food and beverage operator — to close. (She eventually agreed to let the group stay once the banners and leaflets were removed.)

“She was Muslim, her parents or family were Muslim,” Mr. Codrey, who had been an assistant manager, testified in words that were read by a stand-in. “If my parents find out there’s a Jewish event here, they’re going to pull money from me immediately,” he recalled Ms. Adaya saying, though he noted that she might have said “family,” as her father is dead.

Ms. Adaya inherited control of the hotel from her father, Ahmad Adaya, after he died in 2006. Since it was built in 1939, the Shangri-La has been closely associated with Hollywood celebrity. The rooftop tango in the middle of Randy Newman’s “I Love L.A.” music video took place at the Shangri-La. In 2010, L.A. Weekly said the Shangri-La was the region’s “Best Glamourpuss Posh Hotel.” That was a rare distinction in a place full of glamourpuss posh hotels.

But Ms. Adaya and her backers spent $30 million on a renovation overseen by Marc Smith, who helped make the Shangri-La and its lounges as hip as his club Vynyl in Hollywood or his reborn Golden Gopher bar in downtown Los Angeles.

Though anti-Semitic storms have been known to erupt in the entertainment industry — the incendiary remark by Mel Gibson comes to mind — Santa Monica has experienced few controversies involving Jews in recent years.

Perhaps the most vibrant one occurred last year, when it briefly seemed that a proposal to ban circumcision in the city would appear on a ballot. But the measure was quickly dropped.

Carl Arvilla, a security director for the Shangri-La, testified on Wednesday afternoon that the hotel was simply enforcing standing policies that ban leaflets and limit the use of its pool to guests.

Ms. Adaya clearly did not regard the claims — which could lead not only to monetary damages, but also a lasting blot on her hotel — as routine.

Born in Pakistan but raised from an early age in the United States, Ms. Adaya said she had experienced life as a minority member during her time in the Santa Monica public schools and later at a private girls’ school. “I was the only one,” she said when asked if there had been other Muslims in a heavily Jewish school she once attended.

“I would never do that,” she said of the charge that she had singled out the supporters of Israel for eviction.
120 2012-08-05 TEHRAN (AP) — Iran said Saturday that it had successfully test-fired an upgraded version of a short-range ballistic missile with improved accuracy, increasing its capacity to strike land and naval targets.

Iran’s defense minister, Brig. Gen. Ahmad Vahidi, said the solid-fueled Fateh-110 missile had a range of 185 miles. He also said the weapon could strike with pinpoint precision, making it the most accurate weapon of its kind in Iran’s arsenal.

“By reaching this generation of the Fateh-110, a new capability has been added to our armed forces in striking sea and land targets,” state television quoted General Vahidi as saying. Iran’s military leaders have said they believe that future wars will be air- and sea-based, and Tehran has sought to upgrade its air defense systems and naval power in anticipation of such a possibility.
121 2012-08-05 The United States gained these jobs through a combination of public and Congressional pressure on Japan, “voluntary” quotas on car exports from Japan and incentives like breaks that encouraged Japanese automakers to build factories in America. Pressuring technology companies to move manufacturing here would pose different challenges. For one thing, Apple and many other technology giants are American, not foreign, and so are viewed differently by politicians and the public. But it is possible and the benefits might be worth it, some economists say.

“The U.S. has a long history of demanding that companies build here if they want to sell here, because it jump-starts industries,” said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a senior trade official in the Reagan administration who helped negotiate with Japan in the 1980s. The government could also encourage domestic production of technologies, including display manufacturing and advanced semiconductor fabrication, that would nurture new industries. “Instead, we let those jobs go to , and then the supply chains follow, and then R&D follows, and soon it makes sense to build everything overseas,” he said. “If Apple or Congress wanted to make the valuable parts of the in America, it wouldn’t be hard.”

One country has recently succeeded at forcing technology jobs to relocate. Last year, Brazilian politicians used subsidies and the threat of continued high tariffs on imports to persuade — which makes smartphones and computers in Asia for dozens of technology companies — to start producing iPhones, iPads and other devices in a factory north of São Paulo. Today, the new plant has 1,000 workers, and could employ many more. Apple and Foxconn declined to comment about the specifics of their Brazilian manufacturing.

However, a developing country like can adopt trade policies that would be difficult for the United States to do. Taking a hard line to reduce imports of technology goods and encourage domestic manufacturing could violate international trade agreements and set off a trade confrontation. “We’re a long way from even talking about limits on imported iPhones or iPads,” said a former high-ranking Obama administration official who did not want to be named because he was not authorized to speak.

Protectionism is bad policy in today’s globalized world, many economists argue. Countries benefit most when they concentrate on what they do best, and trade barriers harm consumers by driving up prices and undermine a nation’s competitiveness by shielding industries from market forces that spur innovation. The United States needs to create new jobs, economists say, but it should not chase low-paid electronics assembly work that at some point may be replaced by robots. Instead, it should focus on higher-paying jobs.

“Closing our border is a 20th-century thought, and it will only weaken the economy over the long term,” said , president of and co-chairman of the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, a group of executives and academics convened by the White House who have studied ways to encourage domestic manufacturing.

The debate is not just economic, however. Increasingly, it is political. With high unemployment, the question of how to create jobs has taken a role in the presidential race between and , and both have traded barbs on outsourcing by American companies.

Although the car and technology industries are different, and the eras are separated by 30 years, the resurgence of American auto manufacturing in the 1980s is an example of how one industry created tens of thousands of good jobs. Since its first pickup truck rolled off the line here on June 16, 1983, Nissan has produced more than seven million vehicles in the United States. It now employs 15,000 people in this country. It makes more than a half-million cars, trucks and S.U.V.’s a year, with the plant in Smyrna building six models, including the soon-to-be-produced, all-electric Nissan Leaf.

Other foreign carmakers settled in America — , , , , and, most recently, — after a failed attempt decades ago. And some of those factories have become among the best in the world. The Nissan engine plant in Decherd, Tenn., for instance, exports engines to Japan. “We have 14 companies now that produce light vehicles here, and that is enormous,” said Thomas Klier, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank in . “There is no major market in the world that compares to it.”

It was a blunt question, posed by Ishihara, president of Nissan, to Mr. Alexander, then the state’s governor.

Mr. Alexander, who had journeyed to in 1979 to pitch Nissan on building a plant in his state, was ready with his answer: “I said, ‘It’s right in the middle.’ ” To help out, he displayed a satellite photograph of the United States at night, showing the bright lights shining on the East and West Coasts and the relative darkness of Tennessee.

“We were the third-poorest state in the nation back then,” Mr. Alexander said. “President Carter had told all the U.S. governors to go to Japan and persuade the Japanese to make in the U.S. what they sell in the U.S.”

Mr. Alexander recalled that the Nissan executives were “incredibly anxious” about testing their homegrown production systems abroad. Could the Japanese car companies achieve the same quality using American workers?

Despite the concerns, pressures were growing for Nissan to break out of its manufacturing cocoon in Japan, including currency fluctuations that made exporting more expensive. The final push came from American anger as imports grabbed one-fourth of the United States market.

“Japanese automakers had achieved rapid growth by exporting to America,” said Hidetoshi Imazu, a senior manufacturing executive at Nissan in Tokyo who led the development of the plant here in its early years. “But it was clear that model would no longer work.”

In the fall of 1980, Congress held hearings to limit Japanese imports. With tensions running high, Nissan announced plans for the $300 million assembly plant in Smyrna. That gave the company a head start in circumventing looming restrictions. In May 1981, Japan agreed to limit exports to America to 1.68 million cars annually, a 7 percent reduction from a year earlier. In addition, the United States imposed a 25 percent tax on imported pickup trucks.

“The pressure put on the Japanese was absolutely critical for them to agree to export restraints,” said Stephen D. Cohen, a professor emeritus of international studies at American University.

Rural Tennessee may not have seemed a likely place to build a giant automotive factory, but its location was actually a selling point. It was far from and the — and the Japanese wanted to work without what they saw as union interference.

Nissan’s choice of Tennessee was not popular with everyone. On a 20-degree February morning in 1981, trade unionists jeered Mr. Alexander and Nissan executives as they turned the first shovelfuls of dirt for the factory, protesting nonunion construction crews. An airplane circled overhead, urging a boycott of Japanese vehicles.

Standing nearby was Marvin Runyon, a 37-year veteran of who had been recruited as Nissan’s first American plant manager. In a later interview with , Mr. Runyon was asked what his old colleagues in Detroit thought of his new job. “They wish me luck,” he said. “But not too much.”

Success did not come overnight. Many Japanese were skeptical of their new colleagues. Americans, they had heard, were soft, lazy and incapable of mastering the precision manufacturing that had made Nissan great.

To train its new American engineers, Nissan flew workers to its Zama factory in eastern Japan. There the Nissan officials, assisted by English-speaking Japanese workers called “communication helpers,” imparted the intricacies of the company’s production techniques to the Americans.

Early on, Nissan guarded against quality concerns by not relying on parts from American suppliers. Most components were either shipped from Japan or produced by Japanese companies that set up operations nearby. “We felt sourcing parts in the U.S. wouldn’t allow us to make cars in our own way,” said Mr. Imazu, the Nissan manufacturing executive.

By 1985, Nissan was confident enough about the quality that it added passenger cars to Smyrna’s assembly lines. Gradually, American parts makers were allowed to bid on supply contracts. Even that came amid arm-twisting by Congress, which passed a law in 1992 requiring auto makers to inform consumers of the percentage of parts in United States-made cars that came from , Asia or elsewhere.

Calsonic Kansei of Tokyo opened its first plant in Tennessee in the mid-1980s, and now employs about 2,600 Americans making instrument panels, exhaust systems, and heating and cooling modules for Nissan. “The Japanese suppliers were encouraged to localize production,” said Matt Mulliniks, vice president for sales and marketing at Calsonic Kansei in Tennessee.

Nissan’s early doubts are reflected in recent debates over whether American workers can compete with overseas laborers. Within the technology industry, workers in Asia are viewed as hungrier and more willing to tolerate harsh work schedules to achieve productivity. The numbingly repetitive jobs of assembling cellphones and tablet computers, executives say, would be scorned here; they worry that many Americans would not make the sacrifices that success demands, and want too much vacation time and predictable work schedules.

In the auto industry, the belief that American workers could not match Japanese workers has long since faded. “A big part of the reluctance of Japanese automakers to come to the U.S. was the belief that their manufacturing systems could only work with loyal Japanese employees,” said Dr. Cohen, the American University professor. “Everybody was surprised how quickly the systems were adopted here.”

This year, Nissan held an internal competition to decide where to produce a new Infiniti-brand luxury sport utility vehicle. The plant in Smyrna was vying against one in Japan.

“All my life I’ve heard about how great luxury brands like and BMW are,” said Richard Soloman, a 20-year veteran at the Smyrna plant. “Now we will be building a vehicle of that standard right here in Tennessee.”

The Japanese presence has rippled through the South. But no place has benefited to the extent of Tennessee, which counts more than 60,000 jobs related to automobile and parts production. The state’s jobless rate, which exceeded the national average by a significant margin in 1983 when Nissan opened its plant, is now lower — 8.1 percent in June versus 8.2 percent nationwide.

Earlier this year, when Apple’s chief executive, , took the stage at a technology conference, he was asked if his company — which once made computers in America, but now locates most assembly in and other countries — would ever build another product in the United States.

That day came recently for Brazil.

In Jundiaí, an hour’s drive from São Paulo, a strip of asphalt has recently been rechristened Avenida , or Steve Jobs Avenue. Alongside is a factory where workers make iPhones and iPads. Brazil got these jobs through tactics the United States once used to persuade Nissan and other foreign carmakers to build plants in America: it cajoled Apple and Foxconn with a combination of financial incentives and import penalties.

Like the United States, Brazil is a big market — the third largest for computers after China and the United States. It has long imposed tariffs on imported technology products to encourage domestic manufacturing. Those fees mean that smartphones and laptops often cost consumers more in Brazil, and that domestic manufacturers can be at a disadvantage if their products require imported parts.

In April 2011, Brazil’s president, , traveled to Asia with a pitch, much as Mr. Alexander did in 1979. The federal government would give Foxconn tax breaks, subsidized and special access through customs and lower tariffs for imported parts if it started assembling Apple products in Brazil, where Foxconn was already producing electronics for Dell, and Hewlett-Packard.

Foxconn agreed. Within months, new Brazilian engineers were flying to China for training. By year’s end, Foxconn was making iPhones in Jundiaí, and it began making iPads there in early 2012, according to Evandro Oliveira Santos, director of the Jundiaí Metalworkers Union, whose members work at the plant. Stores now carry Apple products with the inscription “Fabricado no Brasil” — “Made in Brazil.”

Apple products remain expensive; the latest , for instance, costs about $760 in Brazil, compared with $499 in the United States. But because those devices are made in Brazil and lower tariffs are charged on parts used to assemble them, Foxconn and Apple are pocketing larger shares of the profits, analysts say, offsetting the increased costs of building outside China.

Foxconn declined to discuss specific customers, but said that the Brazilian government’s incentive programs had influenced its decisions and that the company expected to generate more Brazilian jobs and aid the government’s goal of furthering the country’s technology industries.

Indeed, Brazil hopes that compelling Foxconn to assemble iPhones and iPads domestically will help set off a technology explosion. Ms. Rousseff has said that Foxconn could invest $12 billion more in Brazil. And as an electronics supply chain develops within the country, as it has in China, the expectation is that other manufacturers will build factories.

The government also hopes to use consumer electronics as a springboard for more advanced manufacturing. Targeting high-tech parts like computer displays and semiconductors could help Brazil reduce its trade deficit in these products and develop a robust homegrown industry, said Virgilio Almeida, information technology secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technology. “They are deemed high priority in the Brazilian industrial policy and are part of the Greater Brazil Plan,” he said. “Brazil has developed specific policies that grant incentives to foment research, development and industrial production.”

Throughout his term, Mr. Obama has regularly gathered advisers to discuss manufacturing, according to former high-ranking White House officials. As one meeting was breaking up, Mr. Obama casually tapped an aide’s iPhone to raise a point. Since the device is designed domestically, he said, it should be possible to make it in this country as well.

But it became clear at the meetings that there were differences of opinion over how best to bring manufacturing home, according to people familiar with the discussions who did not want to be named because the sessions were private. Everyone shared the same goal: establishing a level playing field and creating as many jobs in America as possible. But the debate centered, in part, on choosing among different tactics the American government has used in the past: penalties like tariffs against foreign countries that do not play by the rules or incentives like tax breaks to encourage more domestic manufacturing. On one side were officials like , until earlier this year the president’s senior counselor for manufacturing policy, who favored more aggressive stances to counter policies used by Asian countries. He argued that the United States should fight China’s efforts to keep its currency weak. If China’s currency were stronger, American companies might find it costlier to make their goods in China and could have greater incentive to manufacture more in this country.

Aligned on the other side at times were two powerful voices: , the top economic adviser to Mr. Obama until 2010, and Secretary . Along with many economists, Mr. Summers argued that an overly aggressive trade stance could hurt manufacturing — by, for instance, pushing up the price of imported steel used by carmakers — and over time, drive companies away.

Mr. Geithner thought diplomacy was more effective than confrontational tactics like labeling China a currency manipulator. “He told us, ‘It’s going to be a trade war if we go there,’ ” according to a person who attended the meetings. But this person countered that China would respond only to pressure. “What doesn’t work is the quiet stuff,” he said.

Mr. Summers, in a recent interview, declined to discuss his role at the White House. But speaking more broadly, he said that measures might incite new domestic manufacturing in the short run, but that it would come at a high price. “People will pay more for the product because it’s produced in a place that can’t make it at the lowest cost,” he said. “It burdens exporters because they pay more for their inputs. And it removes the spur of competition.”

A spokeswoman for Mr. Geithner said, “A multidimensional approach to tough yet smart engagement with China is the most effective way to level the playing field.” This strategy has had some success in persuading China to increase the value of its currency, she noted.

One of the president’s economic advisers also said that, despite some differences, Mr. Obama’s team, including Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers, united to preserve manufacturing jobs in a critical area by bailing out the auto industry in the wake of the financial crisis.

But the divisions within the White House have often frustrated those who wanted a sharper focus on manufacturing. “The critics would say we didn’t really fight for manufacturing policy,” said another former high-ranking official who took part in many of those meetings and who did not want to be named because the discussions were confidential. “They have a strong point.”

Now, with unemployment high and a growing debate over outsourcing of jobs, manufacturing is on the political agenda. In March, Gene B. Sperling, director of the White House’s National Economic Council, outlined initiatives — including tax breaks for building factories here, infrastructure investments and going after “unfair trade practices” — to reinvigorate manufacturing. In May, the Commerce Department announced tariffs on Chinese solar panels for selling below fair-market value. The White House has challenged China’s trade practices on tires and rare-earth metals, and has established an “interagency trade enforcement center” to combat unfair trade.

, however, has generally shied from addressing the protectionist measures of countries like China with countermeasures, as politicians once did against Japan.

After the Senate passed legislation last year imposing tariffs on nations whose currency is undervalued — a salvo aimed at China — the bill went nowhere in the House of Representatives, and the White House indicated it did not like the proposal.

However, champions of “in-sourcing” legislation — which takes away benefits from companies moving jobs abroad and provides incentives for those bringing jobs back — said the tenor of the debate was changing. “The public by and large has been betrayed by large American corporations that outsource. I think Congress is catching on to that,” said Senator , Democrat of .

Still, he does not advocate tariffs or quotas. Senator , Democrat of , also favors tax breaks, rather than penalties. “I love my iPad,” she said. “And I want it made in America.”

One reason for the difference today: Unlike in the 1980s, when Japanese auto imports upset many voters, there has been little public outcry over imported cellphones and computers.

Back then, American workers were losing jobs as imports from Japanese companies cut into sales of the Big Three automakers.

But consumer electronics are different. Though some jobs have moved to Asia, many were never here to begin with. And the biggest technology importers — like Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and — are American companies.

Today, many consumers do not know or care where their smartphones are made. “Where it was built, what it means for politics, how it affects the economy,” said Raymond Stata, a founder of Analog Devices, one of the largest semiconductor manufacturers, “that’s not something people think about when they buy.”
122 2012-08-05 “Even if this is only a political gesture and current ministers stay, this is a warning about the weakness of the Karzai government, a reflection of the deep divisions in the Afghan legislature and an indication of the kind of far deeper ethnic and sectarian splits that may come as the transition proceeds,” said Anthony Cordesman, an expert on the war at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “Transition is already a high-risk effort, and this kind of additional risk is scarcely likely to make things better.”

The vote could be a harbinger of a broader shake-up in the government. At least two other important ministers, including Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal, are already under scrutiny. With the disclosure last week of bank statements showing transfers from Afghan businesses into his accounts, Mr. Zakhilwal is facing questions about corruption from a government antigraft agency. (He says the money was for earlier consultancy work.)

The American Embassy and the NATO command here appeared to be caught by surprise by the parliamentary vote and did not comment, leaving unclear what effect it might have on an increasingly complex security transition. American and international forces have been turning over province after province to Afghan control, razing their bases or giving them to the Afghans in a delicately choreographed sequence meant to ensure the Afghans have enough help in the near term as they take up the fight against a diminished but still persistent Taliban presence.

The vote came as many Afghan leaders and civilians are increasingly frustrated with corruption that undermines attempts to rebuild after years of war and amid anger from Parliament about cronyism in both ministries and accusations of ethnic bias in the Interior Ministry. Mr. Wardak has been accused of directing lucrative NATO trucking contracts to his son, a charge he has denied, while Mr. Mohammadi is seen as favoring fellow Tajiks from northern Afghanistan.

The parliamentary action also follows weeks of anger over the recent cross-border rocket barrages from Pakistan, which has a strong interest in maintaining influence in Afghanistan.

Analysts say it would have been hard for Afghanistan to respond to the attacks without causing a diplomatic rift with Pakistan, which denies involvement and blames militants for the strikes. Still, the violence symbolizes Afghanistan’s helplessness in a tug-of-war over its fate among powerful outside forces.

For the Obama administration, which has made corruption a central issue in the past, the possible replacement of the defense and interior ministers presents a challenge. With the administration now focused on arranging an orderly transition to Afghans, it has appeared to put a higher value on preserving officials who are seen as effective, even if suspect.

Administration officials in Washington declined to comment publicly on Saturday and privately played down the importance of the move, taking comfort in the notion that Mr. Karzai effectively has the final say and has kept on appointees in the past for months despite political opposition.

But this time might be different. Some of his allies in Parliament voted for the dismissals, suggesting possible support from his government, and his press office issued a statement on Saturday saying, “the disqualification of ministers is the Parliament’s right.”

Mr. Wardak and Mr. Mohammadi have been high-profile figures since the government’s formation after the collapse of the Taliban in 2001. Mr. Wardak has served in his post since 2004, and Mr. Mohammadi has worked in security posts, including as chief of staff of the army.

A number of lawmakers denied that the dismissals would hamper the security transition. They said the vote was driven in part by longstanding questions about the ministries’ ability to protect the country and about their infiltration by militants.

In February a gunman entered a secure control room in an inner sanctum of the Interior Ministry and shot two American advisers. Several suicide vests have also been found inside the Defense Ministry, raising concerns that the ministry itself was not secure.

Lawmakers who voted to remove the ministers insisted that on balance a change in leadership would improve security, even though it will likely mean personnel shuffles throughout the organizations’ patronage networks.

“A new minister will bring a lot of changes in the command structure of these ministries, which are currently filled with corrupt division and corps commanders and corrupt police chiefs who are incompetent and have failed to strengthen security,” said Gul Pacha Majidi, a lawmaker from Paktia Province in the country’s southeastern Pashtun belt.

Mr. Mohammadi is a native of Panshir Province, a stronghold of the former Northern Alliance which fought the Taliban. He is known for filling many of the most powerful provincial police chief jobs as well as lower-level district police jobs with his fellow Panshiris, who are overwhelmingly Tajik. While some Afghan officials have complained that many appointees lacked the proper credentials, the practice also infuriated power brokers from other ethnic groups and regions who were concerned with seeing their own people appointed.

Some Westerners in Afghanistan who are monitoring the security transition saw the parliamentary vote as demonstrating a good impulse to improve two powerful ministries, but one with serious pitfalls.

“It was an effort to clean house, and the only unfortunate part of it is that you may get more rats in the castle,” said Candace Rondeaux, who heads the International Crisis Group’s Kabul office. “We don’t know who is going to replace Rahim Wardak and Bismullah Khan Mohammadi, but we know that there are precious few candidates with a clean profile.”
123 2012-08-05 Governors of 13 states with nearly one-third of the United States population have sent letters to the Obama administration saying they intend to set up exchanges. Complete applications are due on Nov. 16, just 10 days after the presidential election.

Federal and state officials and health policy experts expect that the federal government will run the exchanges in about half of the 50 states — a huge undertaking, given the diversity of local insurance markets.

The federal exchanges will vary from state to state. The Obama administration will not define a single uniform set of “essential health benefits” that must be provided by all insurers, but will allow each state to specify the benefits within broad categories.

In running an exchange, federal officials face a delicate political task. They will encourage people to enroll, promoting the exchange as an important part of Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul. But they do not want to feed fears of a federal takeover or alienate state officials whose help they need.

Much work will be done by contractors. With public opinion deeply divided over the new law, the Obama administration has invited advertising agencies to devise an elaborate “outreach and education campaign” to publicize the federal exchanges and their potential benefits for consumers.

In addition, federal officials are looking for private contractors to provide “in-person assistance” to consumers and to operate call centers. A contractor will also help the government decide who gets federal subsidies, expected to average $6,000 a person, and who is exempt from the tax penalties that will be imposed on people who go without insurance.

Federal officials have turned to the American subsidiary of a Canadian company, the CGI Group, to provide information technology services to the federal exchanges under a contract that could be worth $93.7 million over five years.

An exchange is a sort of supermarket where people can compare prices and benefits of health plans offered by insurance companies. People will be able to file applications online, in person, by mail or by telephone.

Mr. Hash, the director of the federal Office of Health Reform, said the federal exchanges “will operate essentially in the same manner as the state-based exchanges.” However, they differ in a significant way. States have done their work in public, but planning for the federal exchanges has been done almost entirely behind closed doors.

“We have gotten little bits of information here and there about how the federal exchange might operate,” said Linda J. Sheppard, a senior official at the Kansas Insurance Department. “I was on a panel at Rockhurst University here, and I was asked, ‘Where is the Web site for the federal exchange?’ I chuckled. There really isn’t any federal exchange Web site.”

Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at the Health Policy Institute of Georgetown University, said the federal exchanges were “much more opaque” than the state exchanges.

In New Hampshire, Thomas M. Harte, the president of Landmark Benefits, which arranges health insurance for 300 employers of all sizes, said: “Nobody has any idea what the federal exchange will look like. There has not been much communication between officials drafting plans for the federal exchange and the people who will use it: consumers, employers, brokers and insurers.”

Gov. John Lynch of New Hampshire, a Democrat, wanted to set up an exchange. But the Republican-controlled legislature blocked the idea, so the state will have a federal exchange.

Some states are still weighing their options. Dan L. Crippen, executive director of the National Governors Association, predicted that the federal government would initially run the exchanges in more than half of the states. A similar forecast came from Prof. Timothy S. Jost, an expert on health law at Washington and Lee University.

The 2010 health care law says that if a state runs its own exchange, it must “consult with stakeholders,” including consumers and small businesses. Subsequent rules go further, requiring states to consult health care providers, insurers, agents and brokers.

Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, has repeatedly emphasized that “states have to meet a standard of transparency and accountability.” A state exchange must have “a clearly defined governing board,” and the board must hold regular public meetings.

States as diverse as California, Minnesota, Mississippi and Nevada have Web sites where they post documents laying the groundwork for exchanges. The documents include minutes of public meetings, cost estimates and information about contracts for goods and services.

By contrast, federal officials have disclosed little about their plans, are vague about the financing of the federal exchanges and have refused even to divulge the “request for proposals” circulated to advertising agencies.

The federal government requires a state exchange to develop a budget, with “expected operating costs, revenues and expenditures.” States must explain how the revenue will be generated and how the exchange will address “any financial deficits.”

Administration officials have not set forth a budget for the federal exchanges. They said they intended to charge “user fees” to the participating health insurance plans, but it is unclear whether the fees are subject to approval by Congress or whether insurers could pass the costs on to consumers.

State officials have many questions. John M. Rusche, a Democrat who is the minority leader of the Idaho House of Representatives, said he wanted to know “how much of the federal exchange will be standardized and how much will be customized” to the needs of each state.

Mr. Rusche said he also wanted to know how the federal government would decide whether a health plan had enough doctors and hospitals in its network. In setting standards for “network adequacy,” he said, it would help if federal officials understood the geography of Idaho, where the nearest hospital could be two hours away.
124 2012-08-05 That’s not surprising. Both feeding people and helping put a roof over their heads fall under the broad rubric of the hospitality industry. Both careers attract extroverts and offer flexible schedules. Plus, who knows a neighborhood’s needs better than the broker who sells properties in the area?

Some brokers are simply silent partners, writing checks and keeping out of the way. Frank Castelluccio, a Corcoran broker who is an investor in Sapori, his brother-in-law’s Italian restaurant in Kips Bay, is so busy that he has visited the restaurant only three times since it opened earlier this year. Other brokers are practically up to their elbows in flour, doing everything from buying china to busing tables.

Neither selling real estate nor running a restaurant is for the faint of heart. Yet the potential rewards of simultaneously doing both are great. When the real estate market slackens, a second stream of income can prove welcome. And as Brian Morgan has discovered, the opportunities for synergy are endless. A woman stops by for a meal and mentions that her nephew needs an apartment. A man who has checked out a brownstone becomes a lunchtime regular. And where better to celebrate a closing than at the broker’s very own restaurant?

Many brokers find their way to the restaurant business through a family member. For Christine O’Neal, the route worked in reverse. With her husband, Michael, and his actor brother, Patrick, she helped create such signature New York institutions as the Ginger Man, the Landmark Tavern and O’Neal’s Balloon, opposite . But over time her family’s needs changed. “We had two young children, and we were running out of ready cash,” said Ms. O’Neal, who is 74. “Basically, I needed a job.” The city’s real estate business was booming, and in 1985 she became a broker, joining Halstead two years later.

Still, her first love never faded. Thirteen years ago she and her husband opened the West 79th Street Boat Basin Cafe, in a waterfront structure topped with a soaring Guastavino vault. The cafe is very much Ms. O’Neal’s baby. She was the one who found the space; cards on every table announce: “I found this great home for the Boat Basin Cafe. Now let me find a great home for you.” She does everything from cut tablecloths to paint clouds on room dividers.

From the real estate side of her life Ms. O’Neal has learned useful skills. “Halstead taught us about self-promotion,” she said. So she makes sure that the cafe aggressively uses social media to advertise itself and encourages waiters to — “200 people eating lobster rolls on the terrace right now!” And like many brokers who run restaurants, Ms. O’Neal sees parallels between the occupations, especially in New York. “What else do New Yorkers talk about except real estate and restaurants?”

Lauren Cangiano, who has spent 26 years as a broker with Halstead, also came to the world of restaurants through her family. Her husband, Louis, had been in the food business for decades, notably helping run an Italian specialty food business on that his grandparents had started. “But by 2008, business at the Staten Island store was winding down,” Ms. Cangiano said, “and we were looking for the next phase of the food chain.” That turned out to be Tre Otto, a 42-table Italian restaurant that opened in 2009 on upper Madison Avenue.

Although the Cangianos are the owners, Mr. Cangiano’s entire family is involved. His sister is the manager for weekday lunches. His brother does the accounts. His 83-year-old father can sometimes be found atop a stepladder fixing the air-conditioner.

When the place is busy, Ms. Cangiano has tasks every day — buying dishes, ordering menus, ferreting out new recipes. “It’s nice to be involved with both,” said Ms. Cangiano, who has sold many properties in the neighborhood and often recognizes clients stopping by for and a glass of wine. “In real estate, you’re with strangers so much of the time, it’s good to see familiar faces. Plus, people are happy eating and drinking. Real estate isn’t always so happy. You don’t go out for dinner to celebrate being outbid on an apartment.”

Gina O’Keefe, a broker with Brown Harris Stevens, was drawn to the world of restaurants partly because that world had such pleasurable associations. She grew up next door to (“all those Eloise jokes”) and started going to great New York restaurants when she was a child. “The idea of being in a social venue, of being happy,” she said. “I loved that feeling.”

Ms. O’Keefe, who is 44, also had a taste for real estate. She and her husband, Brian O’Neill, a musician, bought their first property, a co-op, when she was 25; they flipped it two years later for double the purchase price. She joined Brown Harris Stevens in 2008. But with the sagging market and with two young children, a second career running a restaurant seemed increasingly appealing. The result was Taproom No. 307, a bar and restaurant specializing in craft beer that opened 18 months ago on lower Third Avenue.

In the bar Ms. O’Keefe can display facets of her personality that aren’t always apparent at the office. “People get to know you in a different environment, a comfortable environment,” she said. “It’s like being in someone’s home. People feel safe. And that’s something they’re looking for with a broker.”

When her life gets hectic, the financial benefits are an incentive to balance two sets of demands. “Having two streams of income is very nice,” Ms. O’Keefe said. “A high-end broker can average $250,000 a year, and with a successful restaurant, you can double your income.”

Having partners both in the restaurant and at the office helps. So do hours that, while demanding, dovetail nicely. “You never don’t have a lot to do,” she said. “But there’s definitely an adrenaline rush. Besides, I was never fond of downtime.”

Some brokers become involved in restaurants as a way to become involved in their community. That desire helped prompt Ari Harkov and Warner Lewis, two 30-something Halstead brokers, to invest in Donna, a bar that opened in April under the Williamsburg Bridge.

Mr. Harkov, who lives on Ainslie Street, in the neighborhood’s Italian section, has a master’s degree in business administration and is the moneyman. He negotiated the lease and keeps the accounts. Mr. Lewis, who lives at the Edge and whose high school nickname was Super Host, thanks to the skill with which he organized events even at a tender age, handles the marketing and social-media end of things, “basically getting the word out and bringing in the bodies,” he said.

Both are passionate Williamsburg boosters. “We wanted a footprint in the neighborhood,” said Mr. Lewis, who shows off pictures of the bar with the same pride as when he shows pictures of his new baby. And listening to him wax eloquent about Donna’s hand-plastered cathedral ceiling, etched glass and hand-carved wooden touches, he sounds as proud as any first-time parent. “It’s not a plan,” he said. “But we’re enjoying the journey.”

A few brokers stumble into the world of restaurants simply by happy accident.

Henry Beck, a Corcoran broker who has been selling real estate for nearly a quarter of a century, never set out to run restaurants. But his wife, Marissa, was a virtuoso cook, especially skilled at whipping up dishes from her native . And when the couple were looking for an investment property, the idea of creating a Filipino restaurant in a Gramercy storefront was born.

The restaurant, Grill 21, opened in 2005 with just 10 tables, along with tropical-themed murals by Russ Elliott featuring fruits and sunflowers. Last year the couple opened a sister establishment down the block, a Filipino-themed patisserie called Pan de Sal. Its specialty is the cafe’s namesake Filipino bun, and the murals, also by Mr. Elliott, feature toucans and egrets. At both sites, Mr. Beck cheerfully pitches in as a good-natured jack-of-all-trades.

“I do a little bit of everything,” Mr. Beck said. “I’ll wash dishes, I’ll wait tables. When we ran out of rice, which is a crisis for an Asian restaurant, I rushed out to buy a 50-pound bag. But it all gives me energy. You meet new people every day. And things lead to other things.”

An even happier accident brought Levi Michaels, a Brown Harris Stevens broker with a passion for food, into the restaurant business.

“What happened was that a deal for a commercial property I was involved with went south,” said Mr. Michaels, 41. “The person who was supposed to buy the property changed his mind. I looked at the owner and said, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll take the space off your hands.’ I kept the space empty for three months, racking my brains with what to do with it. Then one great morning I woke up and thought — food!”

By 5:30 that afternoon Mr. Michaels was in deepest Brooklyn, spending $6,000 for an oven and two refrigerators. “Then I called my wife and said to her: ‘Guess what? I think we’re going to be in the pizza business.’ ” That same day he e-mailed his Italian-born grandmother asking for her recipe for sauce, the secret ingredient being whole San Marzano .

Four years ago, Ciao Bella opened in a 325-square-foot space on Allen Street on the Lower East Side with five tables and a robust takeout business. What with two careers, Mr. Michaels works 70 or 80 hours a week, up at 6 and not home before midnight. “But I’m not tired because I love them both,” he said. “Plus it’s a nice change from the life where you’re wearing the double Windsor knotted tie.”
125 2012-08-05 Eric Fenster, 35, co-owner of Gather Restaurant and Back to Earth Organic Catering in Berkeley, Calif., is a regular at Burning Man, the weeklong arts festival that has been attracting tens of thousands to Black Rock Desert, Nev., since 1990. (This summer it starts Aug. 27.)

On his first trip in 2000 he was caught in a dust storm while riding his bike on the playa. Only when the storm passed did he notice a giant pirate ship rolling by him, carrying dozens of revelers and towing a gorilla-suited man doing a handstand on a skateboard.

“It was definitely an appropriately wacky induction into Burning Man,” Mr. Fenster said.

Below are excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Fenster on how to prepare for the unpredictable at Burning Man.

Q. Black Rock Desert, a flat stretch of about 1,000 square miles, is so desolate it’s used to launch rockets. How do you prepare to live there for a week?

A. Weather is extreme out there: it can go above 100 degrees during the day and then get extremely cold at night. I bring an aerodynamic, four-season North Face tent and stake it to the playa with steel rebars to keep it from blowing away (I’ve seen plenty that have). I also pack a zero-degree mummy sleeping bag and a down coat for nighttime. For food, I recommend bringing things that hold up in the heat like avocados, melons, cucumbers, pitas, hard cheese — no leafy greens or berries — and packing them in coolers with dry ice.

It’s definitely easier to plan your infrastructure with a group, and it adds to the richness. Burning Man, it’s about radical self-reliance, but it’s also very much a community experience. So if you can’t link up with friends, I’d suggest reaching out to a camp of people through Burning Man’s Web site, which has a ton of maps and a first-timer’s guide, too.
126 2012-08-05 A rocking hot spot that is also a reliable chain hotel in downtown Stockholm, with rates starting at 790 Swedish kronor (about $113) per night.

Opened in October 2011, the 391-room Grand Central is the stylish flagship of Scandic Hotels, a Swedish brand with more than 150 properties across Northern Europe. Located in a large, historic building with updated interiors designed by the hip hometown firm Koncept Stockholm, the hotel has a music theme (those are song lyrics stenciled on the hallway walls) and a lively atmosphere that attracts guests and locals alike.

Although it is not the closest Scandic to Stockholm’s Central Station (there is another one right across the street), the Grand Central is only a few blocks away, at the intersection of Kungsgatan and Vasagatan. Stockholm’s main shopping areas and most sights are within easy walking distance.

At check-in, my husband and I were upgraded (unprompted) from a standard double room to a spacious corner suite with high ceilings, hardwood floors and a cool blue-gray color scheme. The bedroom had a small seating area with a couch and armchair, and a blissfully soft king-size bed topped with a pile of fluffy pillows. Several electrical outlets were available, allowing guests to charge multiple electronic gadgets simultaneously, and there was no shortage of work surfaces (desk, coffee table, lap pad). The best feature, however, was the record player and stack of vinyl records — Aretha Franklin, the Steve Miller Band and Cat Stevens.

Surely, tall Scandinavians were in mind when the bathroom was designed. The tub was extra long, and this 5-foot-7 guest had to stand on her tiptoes to reach a vanity mirror on the wall. The large, bright room was lined with white subway tile and had ample counter space and a huge mirror above the sink. In addition to the tub, there was an enclosed glass stall with a rainfall shower head and luxuriously scented bath products from Face Stockholm.

There is free, reliable Wi-Fi and a fully stocked gym. The sprawling lobby is more like a living room with lots of spots to hang out: couches around large coffee tables with stacks of board games nearby, a long table with desk lamps and power outlets that attracts a phalanx of MacBook users, a sunny cafe with freshly baked sweet buns, and even a photo booth tucked into a stairwell. The street-level bar was standing-room-only popular with an after-work crowd. There is also a clubby second-floor Acoustic Bar, which has live music and D.J.’s Tuesday through Saturday nights.
127 2012-08-05 I remember the tumult of being 14. I remember having unspeakable thoughts about my parents and what I wanted to do to them in the midst of an adolescent rage. I recognize that the (huge) difference is that the vast majority of us don’t act on our thoughts. But I do feel some sympathy, or perhaps sorrow, for Greg Ousley, who was not nearly as bad off as many children are but didn’t have the parental nurturing to ease the pain of being a teenager. CAROLINE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

I appreciate that the writer Scott Anderson touched on an issue that generates so much passion. He presented a clear story regarding the facts, leading readers to address their own morals on the issue. JOHN SCHRADER, Public Information Officer, Westville Correctional Facility, Westville, Ind.

My parents were very loving. There is not a day that goes by that I don’t think of them. I talk to my kids about how wonderful they were. My brother, Greg, lied to make himself look better in this article. He has never explained to me or my sister why he took our parents’ lives; he has a made-up version of our childhood. Everyone who comments on this story needs to remember there are still victims who are in a lot of pain. TAMMY OUSLEY, Tennessee

I knew the Ousley family better than most. Greg’s mom was one of the nicest people I have ever met. Greg’s parents supported him — he wanted to be in a band, so they bought him everything he needed. He wanted to ride dirt bikes; they bought him a dirt bike. When Greg did not get his way, he went crazy. I tried to talk him out of murdering his parents, and I never thought he would actually go through with it. Knowing Greg, I can tell you that he is a deceiver. He has swayed others to believe that he is a changed man. CHANCY DWIGHT SCHMUCKER, Warsaw, Ind.

My husband, who is the brother of Greg’s father, has forgiven Greg and built a relationship with him. We don’t think they should simply open the prison doors and let him out. There needs to be a place where he would live and work while being supervised. Some feel Scott Anderson was “played” by Greg. I imagine Scott knows when he is being played. I think he was just impressed with the man Greg has become, as we all are, including many of the prison staff. We pray that a family in crisis will see this article and get help. We want good to come from this tragedy. PAO, Kentucky

Matt Bai misrepresents the most fundamental consequence of the Citizens United ruling: that it’s a new system of corruption. For the first time in more than 100 years, corporations can now legally spend unlimited funds directly from their treasuries to influence elections.
128 2012-08-05 Credit: Michael Appleton for The New York Times
129 2012-08-05 Born in Granada to modest means — his father is a retired police officer — Mr. Heras-Casado first showed interest in music when listening to the children’s and folk songs his mother sang to him. He joined a school choir at 7 and soon pursued private vocal lessons. In an early act of encouragement, his parents bought a piano to further his musical education. “It was a huge investment. I was 9 years old, and I could just say after one year, ‘Oh, no, this is something I don’t like,’ ” he said. “But they supported me.”

As his training became more formal, Mr. Heras-Casado sang with several choirs in Granada, inspired by the commitment of amateur musicians, “people who don’t necessarily have any musical education — that enthusiasm of making things better and having fun — that has marked very, very much what I’ve done since then,” he said.

An interest became an artistic revelation when Mr. Heras-Casado sang the choral Tenebrae Responsories of the Spanish composer Tomás Luis de Victoria, discovering the intricacies of 16th-century polyphony. For Mr. Heras-Casado, Victoria is “the best composer of the Renaissance period beyond Palestrina.”

“The Responsories are very much madrigalistic,” he said. “They are pieces that he composed with no command. It wasn’t a commission. He composed just because of his passion, religious and artistic.”

Driven by similar passion, Mr. Heras-Casado at 17 founded the Capella Exaudi choir to perform Renaissance music, taking on his first conducting role. “I wanted to bring my view, bring my ideas, my energy to that repertoire,” he said. Since then he has not spent a single week without conducting.

As he grew as a musician, Mr. Heras-Casado widened his horizons, learning violin and dabbling in composition. He studied art history, musicology and acting at the University of Granada, though he never completed a degree. He researched the Baroque repertory of Andalusia, excavated little-known music by Spanish composers and even performed in a street-theater group. Lessons with the British conductors Harry Christophers and Christopher Hogwood helped him hone his knowledge of the Renaissance and Baroque repertory.

The bareness of much early music — its lack of dynamic or expressive indications — drove Mr. Heras-Casado’s musical development. “A very important thing was how to look to the four polyphonic voices, how to find within this simple, nude texture of four voices, with no orchestration, no instrumentation, no dynamics, no articulation, no anything — how to find structure, how to find phrasing, how to find the intensity, how to find the texture, how to find the colors. Just within the music itself — its maximum pureness — but also in the text.”

Though he said he’s not religious, Mr. Heras-Casado has engaged deeply with liturgical texts, better to understand their relationship to the musical structures of sacred polyphony. (He owns four different translations of the Bible and speaks six languages.)

Mr. Heras-Casado found a similar purity in the world of modern music. As a student he discovered a kinship with Anton Webern, who wrote a dissertation on the Renaissance composer Heinrich Isaac and whose music filters antique techniques through the modern 12-tone method. In 1999 Mr. Heras-Casado founded a contemporary-music ensemble in Granada, delving into Webern’s music.

A big break came courtesy of an unlikely source: the avant-garde guru Karlheinz Stockhausen. In 2007 Mr. Heras-Casado studied Stockhausen’s “Gruppen” — an ambitious work for three orchestras recently played by the New York Philharmonic — as a participant in the Lucerne Festival Academy’s conducting workshop. A jury including Pierre Boulez and Peter Eotvos unanimously selected him as the best candidate in the summer program, and Mr. Heras-Casado led a performance of “Gruppen” alongside those two composers, both acclaimed interpreters of Stockhausen’s music.

For Mr. Heras-Casado the sound world of “Gruppen” was not terribly far from that of his home turf, the music of the Spanish Baroque. Working with the ensemble he founded in Spain, Mr. Heras-Casado had resurrected the polychoral music of the cathedral of Córdoba, like the “Miserere” of Agustín de Contreras. Written for seven “choirs” made up of odd pairings of singers and instrumentalists, the “Miserere” scattered musicians through the lofts of the church, with ricocheting antiphonal effects that prefigure those of Stockhausen by more than 200 years.

Mr. Eotvos admired the connections that the young conductor drew over multiple centuries. In an e-mail he wrote that “for Pablo music is music, whether old or new, and for me this is an extremely important quality: that someone does not make a difference between music from different eras when approaching each score.”

Though he rarely gives praise, Mr. Boulez was eager to extol Mr. Heras-Casado’s abilities. “I noticed immediately when I worked with him that he was very gifted and very quick and very eager,” he said in a recent phone interview. “That’s three qualities which are really to be appreciated when you are working on a piece like that.”

“What I saw was very convincing to me,” he added. “He has all my sympathy because he is not pretentious. He is very simple and matter of fact in life.”

Recognition by Mr. Boulez and Mr. Eotvos helped start Mr. Heras-Casado’s international career. He made his United States debut in 2008 conducting Ensemble ACJW and led the Los Angeles Philharmonic soon after. His praised first appearance with the Berlin Philharmonic paired classics by Mendelssohn with obscurities by Berio and Szymanowski. Mr. Heras-Casado’s Mostly Mozart concert on Thursday will mark his fourth appearance at Lincoln Center, after two summers of acclaimed performances with the festival orchestra and the International Contemporary Ensemble.

While pursuing the life of a jet-setting maestro, Mr. Heras-Casado has remained committed to the quite old and the very new, conducting premieres of major works by Marc-Olivier Dupin and Toshio Hosokawa as well as reviving obscure operas by Giuseppe Bonno and Luigi Boccherini. He has also maintained his ties to Granada, returning home when he can. Each year he climbs the Mulhacén, Spain’s highest mountain, just outside his hometown.

Last summer he conducted the Orchestra of St. Luke’s in a repertory-heavy concert of Beethoven, Brahms and Mendelssohn at the Caramoor International Music Festival in Katonah, N.Y., and received an enthusiastic ovation from its usually reserved audience. The chamber orchestra, which had not had a principal conductor since Donald Runnicles ended his term in 2007, knew it had found someone extraordinary.

“It is rare that someone so young can get as far as Pablo has gotten,” Daire FitzGerald, a cellist in the orchestra, wrote in a recent e-mail. “But he has such passion for his craft and such a love of music and, I believe, the discipline to do whatever he wants. He is a force of nature!”

Katy Clark, the orchestra’s president and executive director, said: “The concert was shockingly great. It was like seeing the orchestra in Technicolor.”

For a conductor not inclined to settle down Mr. Heras-Casado was struck by the ensemble. “The spirit, the approach to the orchestral playing that they have: they don’t think of the orchestra as much as an orchestra, in the idea that we have in mind normally,” he said. “But as a group of people they know each other very well. They’ve been playing together for long, and they are really passionate for it. They are making chamber music.” He accepted the four-year position of principal conductor, a significant career step though not a major time commitment. He will conduct only one or two concerts per year, split between Carnegie Hall and Caramoor.

Is a full-time music directorship near? A question about his dating life pointed toward an answer: “I guess I’m a romantic,” he said with a laugh. “I’m always changing orchestras, changing countries, changing repertoire, changing everything.

“It’s not because I’m not consistent. It’s because I’m just waiting for the right moment.”
130 2012-08-05 END--Jacqueline The world has lost an amazing woman, loving sister, aunt, and friend, a multi-talented artist, published author, famous advertising writer, astoundingly gifted cook, photographer and lover of animals, particularly cats. She is surv...
131 2012-08-05 WEINSTOCK--Jack. Founder and CEO of August Silk, Inc. He is survived by his wife, Sandra Price, sister, Harriet, his children, Richard, David and Shelley and four grandchildren. Donations in his name to The Needlers Foundation, 1410 Broadway, Ste ...
132 2012-08-06 Increasingly, the Syrian state appears to have lost not just its monopoly on violence but also its monopoly on information....
133 2012-08-06 Mitt Romney will embark on a four-day bus tour on Saturday that will take him to Virginia, North Carolina, Florida and Ohio, his campaign announced Monday....
134 2012-08-06 A priest joined “sandhogs” working on the Second Avenue subway tunnel to bless the project and seek the safety of the workers....
135 2012-08-06 There is one quick lesson to be learned from the break-in of a journalist's Apple iCloud account: segregate your Apple services. That is an option, even though Apple recommends using one universal ID for all Apple services....
136 2012-08-06 August 6, 2012 - Readers respond to the migration of jobs from Nissan to the United States.
137 2012-08-06 As ProPublica has been detailing for two years, Wall Street banks and the hedge fund Magnetar worked together to build mortgage-backed deals that the hedge fund also bet against. The more than $40 billion of deals helped fuel the crash of 2008.

Now, recently collected emails from bankers and a Magnetar executive involved in some of the deals appear to shed new light on how they did it.

Fiduciaries threatened with a loss of business if they didn't cooperate. Prime movers behind a billion-dollar deal suggesting they need to keep their actions hidden. It's all portrayed in the emails, which were included as part of a civil lawsuit against Magnetar filed in New York's Southern District Court in late June. (Our reporting is also cited in the complaint.)

The suit was brought by Italian bank Intesa San Paolo, which lost $180 million on an investment linked to a mortgage bond deal put together by Magnetar and French bank Calyon. The deal was "built to fail," in the words of the complaint.

Boston-based Putnam was the manager on the deal, called Pyxis 2006, which involved the creation of a $1 billion collateralized debt obligation. The managers in such deals were supposed to be independent and looking out for all investors' interests.

Intesa is suing all three players, Magnetar, Calyon and Putnam. Intesa, which is seeking unspecified damages, accuses Calyon and Putnam of misrepresenting the deal and Magnetar of acting in a conspiracy with Calyon and Putnam to aid and abet fraud. (Much of the information cited in the suit comes from an earlier case involving many of the same players that was settled.)

As with all partial document trails, the emails are open to a variety of interpretations. Magnetar says they have been selectively excerpted and that the more complete email chains don't show what the plaintiff alleges.

The firms involved in the deal — Magnetar, Putnam and Calyon — filed motions to dismiss the suit last month.

A Putnam spokesman said, "The lawsuit is completely without merit and will be defended vigorously." A Calyon spokeswoman declined to comment.

Magnetar is reportedly under SEC investigation. The hedge fund says it has not received a formal notice of possible charges from the SEC and calls the lawsuit "meritless." The hedge fund reiterated that it "did not control" what went into the deals, known as collateralized debt obligations. (Read their full response.)

Here are some excerpts from the emails, with our captions:

On June 14, 2006, an executive from Calyon wonders if Magnetar's participation should be hidden, that is, remain "behind the scenes and outside of the docs" in "exactly the same way we did" with another Magnetar CDO:

Magnetar's Jim Prusko responds: "No, not at all. What's your number?" Magnetar points to that response as exculpatory.

Yet a week later, Calyon, Magnetar and Deutsche Bank (which was also investing in the deal and playing a similar role as Magnetar), discussed creating a side agreement giving Deutsche Bank and Magnetar veto power over assets that were to go into the deal. Such side agreements were rare and would have left some investors unaware of important details of the deal.

Ultimately, that side deal was never consummated, according to Magnetar. But Magnetar made sure it knew about the asset selection for the CDO, which Intesa charges is an example of its secret control. Neither Magnetar's influence in the deal nor the hedge fund's bet against it were clearly disclosed to investors:

As the linchpin investor on the CDO, Magnetar needed to know what went into the investment, the hedge fund says. This does not indicate it ultimately controlled what went into the deal. Magnetar points out that Prusko, the Magnetar executive, wrote to the manager in an earlier email that the hedge fund will buy assets "of your choosing":

Though Calyon, which created and marketed the deal, told Intesa that it would select some better-quality, "prime" assets, none got in there, according to the complaint:

A key issue is who exactly knew whether Magnetar was betting against, or shorting, the deals in which it was investing. In one of the email exchanges, from September 2006, executives from Calyon and Putnam discuss who is shorting. The Putnam executive says: "It is definitely Magnetar." In other words, the manager who was supposedly looking out for investors' interests claimed to know that Magnetar was betting against the deal:

Other emails refer to a CDO manager, the Dutch-owned NIBC, which was involved in another Magnetar deal. (As we reported in 2010, NIBC once pushed back against perceived pressure from Magnetar to make a deal riskier.)

Regarding another Magnetar deal, Calyon's Alex Rekeda writes in November 2006 that NIBC is concerned that it is ceding too much power to Magnetar and Deutsche, which was again partnering with Magnetar on the deal. He also relays another concern: "They feel very strongly that the older vintage bonds that they have in the portfolio have by far superior credit characteristics compared to the bonds they can pick up in the market now." Translated: NIBC was feeling pressure to buy riskier bonds and didn't think doing so would benefit investors.

Deutsche's Michael Henriques replies that the original investors — which include Magnetar and Deutsche Bank — are taking "execution, credit and manager risk." That suggests Magnetar and Deutsche viewed themselves as the real managers of the CDO, not the supposedly independent NIBC. Henriques, who later went to work for Magnetar, also complains that NIBC is treating Deutsche Bank and Magnetar poorly, lacking "a spirit of partnership."

That same day, Deutsche's Henriques threatens to withdraw a lucrative line of business from NIBC:

In another deal from a few months earlier, Magnetar's Prusko had also threatened to withhold business from the manager, Putnam, if it did not "play ball":

Magnetar says Prusko's email solely refers to the fees on the deal, and not about controlling asset selection or any other issue.

In a statement, Magnetar said: "Intesa's decision to amend this complaint appears to be little more than a transparent effort to sensationalize a baseless case in which each defendant has already moved for dismissal.

"As the Plaintiff is well aware from the motion to dismiss we filed some time ago, no Magnetar entity was a party to the credit default swap at issue in the case, and we were not even aware of that transaction until this complaint was filed.

"We continue to believe that Intesa's accusations are meritless, and that the case should be dismissed.

"And, as we have stated numerous times in the past: Magnetar did not control the asset-selection process and our Mortgage CDO investment strategy was designed and implemented to maintain a market-neutral portfolio."
138 2012-08-06 Researchers report that levels of a substance that is released into the urine when bones weaken can predict the risk for future fracture in premenopausal women....
139 2012-08-06 The disappearance of the app in the upcoming iOS 6 operating system seemed to chill any lingering hints of the warmth that once existed between Apple and Google....
140 2012-08-06 The break-in over the weekend of the iTunes account of a seasoned technology writer serves as a cautionary tale about how vulnerable people can be to malicious hackers....
141 2012-08-06 Readers respond to the migration of jobs from Nissan to the United States. | Marcus Samuelsson, the chef and the brand. | NASA's $2.5 billion adventure.
142 2012-08-06 Republicans plan to highlight three of the party's high-profile women as "headliners" during the national convention in Tampa later this summer....
143 2012-08-06 The clear line between Internet companies that cater to consumers and those that serve businesses is beginning to blur, reports Nick Wingfield on Monday in The New York Times....
144 2012-08-06 Both critics and proponents of the E.U. airline emissions reduction scheme acknowledge that emissions from aviation, representing 3 percent of total global carbon emissions, are environmentally significant. The question is what to do about it....
145 2012-08-06 Plus: Will Chick-fil-A sell more or fewer sandwiches because of the controversy?...
146 2012-08-06 FindTheBest, a product-and-service comparison engine, has built a sizable audience in the past year. Now it faces the challenge of trying to build a business....
147 2012-08-06 Police called it an act of domestic terrorism....
148 2012-08-06 Mr. Karzai was responsible the last time two ministers were removed, in June 2010, when his disapproval of the performance of the interior minister, Hanif Atmar, and the director of the intelligence service, Amrullah Saleh, compelled them to resign.

In those cases, Pakistan prodded the Afghan government to act because it considered the men to be hostile to Pakistani interests.

Pakistan may have been a factor this time, too, but the circumstances are more complex.

In interviews this weekend, Pakistan’s interior minister, Rehman Malik, accused Afghanistan of harboring insurgents hostile to Pakistan. The accusation rankles Afghans, who feel that they have been the victim of insurgents from havens in Pakistan, and, more recently, of repeated rocket attacks from within Pakistan.

Mr. Mohammadi has been strongly critical of Pakistan, but was seen as failing to protect Afghans from attacks across the border, Afghan officials said.

When he appeared before Parliament on Saturday, he again warned the lawmakers that whether he remained in his job or not, Afghanistan would remain vulnerable to Pakistan. “As long as ISI is free to intervene in Afghanistan, we will not see a happy day,” he said, referring to Pakistan’s spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence. “They still have a very antagonistic strategy toward us.”

Pakistan did not have to press Parliament to remove Mr. Mohammadi or Mr. Wardak because lawmakers were already unhappy with access to patronage networks and their growing sense of the country’s vulnerability.

“There have been attempts to bribe Parliament on national issues, but it has not worked. Their stands reflect their fears or hopes,” said Ashraf Ghani, a senior adviser to Mr. Karzai and leader of the security transition, adding that Mr. Mohammadi’s criticisms of Pakistan had done little to assuage their fears of further hostilities from Pakistan and “a perception of national humiliation.”

Several Parliament members said they were disappointed that Mr. Karzai had not handed over the ministries to the deputy ministers.

One Parliament member, Gul Pacha Majidi of Paktia Province, said he had hoped that the president would put the deputies in charge, and he said that he and others were wary about whether Mr. Karzai would make good on his promise to nominate new ministers.

“The Parliament will decide tomorrow regarding our next step,” he said.

Mr. Karzai has sometimes ignored the Parliament’s decisions to dismiss ministers, leaving them in charge for months or years. However, most lawmakers said Sunday that they did not think that would happen in this case.
149 2012-08-06 Most of the spending is coming from -exempt 501(c)(4) organizations like Crossroads GPS, which may accept large corporate and individual donations without disclosing donors’ identities. And the outcome could show that third-party advertising from these organizations and from “ ” — like Now or Never, which works on behalf of Sarah Steelman, one of the Republican candidates — could tip the balance to a larger degree in a statewide or Congressional race than in the presidential contest.

In other states with contested Republican primaries, like , and , outside money flowed in to take sides in the primaries themselves, leaving the Republican contenders wounded and the Democrat in better shape. In Missouri, it flowed in largely to take down the Democrat, providing vital air cover while the Republicans fought each other below the radar.

The three Republican candidates may be lesser known and less dynamic than Ms. McCaskill, a mainstay of Missouri politics, but she is possibly the most endangered incumbent in the Senate. A Mason-Dixon poll published on July 28 in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch found her trailing all three of her potential opponents, John Brunner, a businessman; Ms. Steelman, a former state treasurer; and Representative Todd Akin.

“When you have a late primary like in Missouri’s, the ability to keep a sustained message-fire on the incumbent is going to be important to whoever the nominee is going to be,” said Kenneth Goldstein, president of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks campaign television spending.

Republicans are reluctant to give the outside groups too much . They say Ms. McCaskill’s uphill climb to a second term is due to her fealty to Mr. Obama’s legislative agenda in a state where he is unpopular.

“Certainly the outside spending has reminded voters why they might not like her much,” said Todd Abrajano, an aide to Mr. Brunner. “But if there was no outside money, she’d still be in the predicament she is in today.”

But when pushed, Republicans do not deny that the groups have helped.

“They are keeping the pressure on McCaskill,” Mr. Akin said. “And that’s making any of us think, ‘We can do it, we can do it.’ ”

Senator of , the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, allowed, “I can’t deny it’s had some impact.”

The Missouri Senate race has drawn outside money from more than a half-dozen groups: two Democratic outfits, the Majority PAC and Patriot Majority USA; and five Republican allies. The Campaign Media Analysis Group tallied $5.2 million in ads since June 1, compared with $4.8 million in , $2.9 million in , $1.5 million in and $1.1 million in , where other contested Senate campaigns have drawn outside attention.

The Majority PAC has spent $722,000 since June to help Ms. McCaskill. Crossroads GPS has spent $857,000 against her, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce $190,000.

Democratic strategists say those numbers understate the impact. Crossroads GPS’s first ads ran in early July 2011, and since then, nine separate ads have come in a rolling barrage. When Crossroads GPS eased up in June, the chamber peaked in July. By the Democrats’ count, anti-McCaskill spending has already reached $15.2 million, with an additional $18 million in advertising slots reserved for the fall.

“People will look back at Missouri and look back at the money that’s been spent by outside forces and say this is an election that shows whether or not these anonymous masters of the universe can buy these elections,” Ms. McCaskill said. “If it works in Missouri, then I think we’re in for a rough ride in this country.”

Her opponents dismiss that. Since Ms. McCaskill’s narrow Senate victory in 2006, her state has drifted right. Mr. Obama lost Missouri in 2008 by fewer than 4,000 votes out of nearly three million cast. But in a 2010 Senate race, , then a Republican representative, crushed Robin Carnahan, a Democratic scion of Missouri political royalty, by nearly 14 percentage points.

Some Missouri Republican strategists said the outside groups knew that Ms. McCaskill could not win and flooded the state to claim a scalp to take to their donors. Others said they saw her weakness and decided they could not forgive themselves if they let her off the mat.

For her part, Ms. McCaskill has made the outside money the main opponent of the campaign.

One McCaskill advertisement says: “They just keep coming back. Secret money attacking Claire McCaskill. These big oil and companies don’t want you to know who they are.” As a stream of televisions showing her competitors’ ads moves across the screen, it continues: “Claire McCaskill will fight them. Always has, always will.”

Republicans say her effort has proved to be a major strategic error. Ms. McCaskill’s focus on the money has only intensified awareness of the campaign’s national importance, made her look defensive and increased the resolve of the outside groups to stay in, they say.

But Ms. McCaskill said that once her opponent was chosen, she could shift gears and try to move the race from a referendum on her to a choice between her and her opponent.

“I’ve had to tread water,” she said, “while they have been pounding me with certainly more per capita than anybody else in the country.”
150 2012-08-06 But consumer Internet companies of the newer generation are doing even more. In many cases, the tools they are providing businesses resemble specialized versions of so-called customer relationship management services from companies like Salesforce.com, which help businesses increase sales and keep track of communications with clients.

By moving in this direction, consumer Internet companies hope to tap potentially rich new sources of revenue, which could make them more attractive to investors. A company that gets business clients to depend on a broad set of its services can make it tougher for competitors to swipe its customers.

“You can’t just sell advertising without being exposed to someone else undercutting you on price,” said Spencer Rascoff, chief executive of Zillow. “If you sell ads plus services, you’re in a more defensible position.”

Bill Gurley, a Zillow board member and venture capitalist, has seen enough hybrid Internet companies that serve both businesses and consumers that he coined a term to describe them: B2B2C. “We’re moving from a day and age where you’re just a Web site to one where we’re automating the connections between businesses and consumers,” he said.

Mr. Gurley’s firm, Benchmark Capital, has invested in several other companies he puts in that camp, including Uber, which offers a mobile app that lets consumers hail a town car and gives drivers a “heat map” highlighting the areas where they are most likely to find customers.

GrubHub, another one of his investments, lets consumers order takeout and delivery food from more than 15,000 restaurants online and through mobile apps. In many cases, the service uses a clunky system in which customer orders are sent to restaurants by fax and confirmed by phone.

Recently, though, GrubHub introduced a product called OrderHub that could allow it to become more entwined in restaurants’ operations. OrderHub is a tablet computer running Google’s Android operating system that lets restaurants receive orders electronically, confirm them with a couple of taps and improve the accuracy of delivery time estimates.

GrubHub is giving free tablets to restaurants, which pay a commission for orders received through the system. About 500 restaurants in Chicago and 500 in New York have the devices now, according to the company.

LinkedIn, meanwhile, is finding success in helping human resources departments manage recruiting. The site started as a place where people could advertise themselves professionally and build a network of contacts. Soon corporate recruiters began using LinkedIn to look for new hires.

LinkedIn eventually began selling recruiters a service, which can cost up to $8,000 a year, that offers improved search capabilities and the ability to contact a broader range of job candidates through the site. A recent addition to that service, called Talent Pipeline, allows human resources departments to track candidates’ progress through the hiring process, from the submission of résumés to in-person interviews. More than half of LinkedIn’s revenue now comes from such recruiting services.

“Over time, we’ve gotten more sophisticated with how we serve organizations,” said Daniel Shapero, vice president for hiring solutions at LinkedIn.

In some cases, analysts say the effort by consumer Internet companies to become more cozy with businesses seemed a little dubious. One example is Groupon, a company known for its daily e-mail offers, which has had disappointing financial results and whose share price has plummeted nearly 75 percent since it went public last year.

In a letter to shareholders in May, the company’s chief executive, Andrew Mason, described a new mission through which the company planned to “become the operating system for local commerce.” Among the initiatives he mentioned was a new online system called Scheduler that allows local merchants to book appointments, which he said would eventually evolve into a way for merchants to perform “yield management,” a system airlines have long used to price seats based on demand.

“Scheduler embodies our intent to provide every mom-and-pop store with powerful technology solutions that were once reserved for sophisticated corporations with multimillion-dollar budgets,” Mr. Mason wrote.

Jordan Rohan, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, said he thought Groupon was trying to position itself as a software-as-a-service company, because the stocks of such companies have performed much better than those of most consumer Internet companies.

“They’re not a software company,” Mr. Rohan said. “They might say they are, but they’re not. It’s mostly buzzwords.”

Zillow’s effort to court businesses seems to be going more smoothly. In an interview at the company’s headquarters in a high-rise overlooking Elliott Bay in Seattle, Mr. Rascoff said Zillow had initially introduced a more straightforward plan to sell advertising to real estate agents, allowing them to buy “premier agent” advertising slots for specific ZIP codes so their names and contact information would appear when someone entered the address of a property on Zillow’s Web site or mobile app. The advertising fees vary by area, but range from $200 to $300 a month on average.

Eventually, Mr. Rascoff realized that many agents wanted more than just advertising to help them convert home shoppers and sellers into commission-paying customers. In the last couple of years, Zillow has acquired three companies that provide tools aimed at real estate professionals, including a service for managing rental listings.

While some real estate professionals and homeowners question the accuracy of its home value estimates, they continue to be a big draw for consumers. (Zillow said the accuracy of its estimates varied by location and improved with more data about home sales.)

Julia Carnahan, a real estate agent with Keller Williams Realty in San Antonio, said she has spent several thousand dollars a month to advertise on Zillow and also has used Diverse Solutions, one of the companies Zillow acquired, to maintain a Web site with her own property listings.

Ms. Carnahan said she would use more services from Zillow as they became more sophisticated. “If they offered tools that helped me complete more business,” she said, “they would certainly capture more of my money.”
151 2012-08-06 Ordered by the United States Supreme Court to reduce severe overcrowding in its prisons, California began redirecting low-level offenders to local jails last October in a shift called realignment. Its prison population, the nation’s largest, has since fallen by more than 16 percent to 120,000 from 144,000; it must be reduced to 110,000 by next June.

Counties with already tight budgets are scrambling to house the influx of newcomers in facilities that were never designed to accommodate inmates serving long sentences, like a man who began serving 15 years for fraud recently in the Fresno jail.

Fresno County — a sprawling agricultural area surrounding the city, which is also facing financial problems and became a punch line for Conan O’Brien recently — is adding 864 beds to its chronically overcrowded jail. Under a longstanding federal consent decree that requires the Sheriff’s Department to release inmates when the jail reaches capacity, 40 to 60 people are let go early every day.

In a move watched by other states also facing prison overcrowding, California is handing its 58 counties money and leeway to decide how to handle the new arrivals. Liberal communities like San Francisco are using a greater share of the state money on programs and alternatives to incarceration. But most counties, particularly here in the conservative Central Valley, have focused on building jail capacity.

That troubles organizations on both sides of the political spectrum. Sheriff Keith Royal of Nevada County, the president of the California State Sheriffs’ Association, said members were worried about their capacity to provide “adequate treatment” in jails and about “litigation at the location level.” The American Civil Liberties Union warned that instead of making fundamental improvements to the criminal justice system, many counties risked simply repeating the state’s mistakes by reflexively putting people behind bars.

Criticized for its overemphasis on jails, a local committee overseeing realignment in Fresno recently approved using $848,000 from its state total of $20.8 million this year to expand drug rehabilitation programs for people released from jail. But even that relatively small amount is facing deep skepticism from the county’s Board of Supervisors, which will vote on the plan in September.

“Some people, you’re not going to change their behavior until they’re incarcerated and they have to pay the consequences,” said Debbie Poochigian, the chairwoman of the Board of Supervisors. “I believe we’re keeping our community safer because they’re not out there looking for their next victim.”

The county has used about 40 percent of its state money so far to reopen two of three jail floors that were closed a few years ago because of budget cuts. The priority, Ms. Poochigian said, should be to finance the reopening of the third floor. If Fresno runs out of space, she added, inmates could be transferred to jails in other counties or to private jails.

According to the Board of State and Community Corrections, the population in county jails rose by about 4 percent from an average of 71,293 in last year’s third quarter to 73,957 in the first quarter of 2012, the latest figures available. In Fresno, like elsewhere, about two-thirds are inmates awaiting trial.

Allen Hopper, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U. who co-wrote a study on the shift to jails, said the population at county jails could be significantly reduced by overhauling pretrial procedures. Many inmates, who present no risk, remain in jail simply because they cannot afford bail, he said, adding that alternatives like electronic monitoring and day reporting could free up jail space and save counties money.

But in counties where elected officials are afraid of appearing soft on crime, such alternatives are particularly sensitive.

“Everything is political,” said Sheriff Margaret Mims of Fresno County.

Sheriff Mims said she had become “less optimistic” about the shift to jails because of rising crime in the county, including burglaries and car thefts. Though law enforcement officials acknowledge that rising crime cannot be linked directly to the realignment policy, they say people engaging in nonviolent offenses like property crime no longer fear being sent to prison.

Despite Fresno County’s conservative attitude toward crime, the policy shift has fueled a debate about alternatives to incarceration by grouping various agencies in the committee overseeing the change, said Emma Hughes, a criminologist at California State University, Fresno, who is working as a consultant for the county.

Linda Penner, the chief probation officer and chairwoman of the realignment committee, said that having secured money to reopen two jail floors, the committee had the political room to approve the $848,000 for the rehabilitation program.

“Do I think we’re all getting on the same page in reckoning with the fact that we have to create alternatives to detention?” she said. “Yes.”

Inside the Fresno jail’s north wing, where the newly reopened facilities are, each floor is composed of six two-level “pods” housing 72 inmates. In one pod, men were lying on three-level bunk beds, watching television, playing cards or doing push-ups. They are given an hour a day at an indoor gym on each floor. Inmates in the jail’s older wings get only three hours a week, split between an indoor gym and a rooftop basketball court.

Violence among inmates has risen since the policy shift, Sgt. Terry Barnes said, attributing it to inmates’ realization that they might spend years in a place with few of the activities and amenities they enjoyed in prison.

“They’re very frustrated with the idea that this is it,” said Sergeant Barnes, a corrections officer who has worked at the jail for 24 years.

Outside the jail, David Otero, 35, was chaining his bicycle to a handrail before visiting his brother inside. Mr. Otero said he himself had spent seven months in the jail and 38 days at a state prison for a hit-and-run conviction in 2006. Prison had better amenities, he said, but there was “a lot more politics” there than in Club Snoopy.

His brother, who spent more than 10 years in prison on various drug convictions, was now serving his second year in jail for robbery, Mr. Otero said. He and his mother visit often, giving his brother money for the canteen.

“If he knows he’s a block away from his mom and his brother, who can visit him anytime, that’ll have a direct impact,” Mr. Otero said. “We’re just up the street.”
152 2012-08-06 Neither Bethany, who plans to run for student council president, nor Garvin, who was excited about his fourth-grade teacher, seemed bothered by the change. “The kids’ education is more important than all of these breaks that we have,” said their mother, Debra Phillips.

A growing group of education advocates is agitating for more time in schools, arguing that low-income children in particular need more time to catch up as schools face increasing pressure to improve student test scores.

“It’s not as simple as ‘Oh, if we just went 12 hours every kid would be Einstein,’ ” said Chris Gabrieli, chairman of the Boston group. “On the other hand, the more time you spend practicing or preparing to do something, the better you get at it.”

Education advocates have been calling for more school time at least since the 1983 “Nation at Risk” report presented an apocalyptic vision of American education.

Teachers’ unions, parents who want to preserve summers for family vacations and those who worry that children already come under too much academic stress argue that extended school time is not the answer. Research on longer school days or years also shows mixed results.

But studies also show that during the summer break, students — particularly those from low-income families — tend to forget what they learned in the school year. Getting back to school early, supporters of a longer calendar say, is one of the best ways to narrow an achievement gap between rich and poor students.

Many charter schools, including those in the academically successful KIPP network, attribute their achievement in part to longer days and calendars. President Obama has repeatedly promoted expanded school time, even inspiring “Saturday Night Live” to poke fun, with Seth Meyers saying in his Weekend Update segment that only “Catherine, the fifth grader nobody likes,” would support such a proposal.

Within the last two years, both the Ford Foundation and the Wallace Foundation have made multimillion dollar commitments to help nonprofit groups work with school districts to restructure the school day and year.

Advocates of longer school years say that the 180-day school year is an outdated artifact.

“The fact that our calendar has been based on the agrarian economy when almost none of our kids work in the field anymore,” said Arne Duncan, secretary of education, “doesn’t make any sense whatsoever.”

Yet several recent efforts to lengthen the school calendar have foundered. The Woodland Hills Academy in Pittsburgh extended its school year to 195 days in 2009, but this year it will return to the traditional 180-day calendar because of state budget cuts. Similarly, Parkside Elementary in Coral Springs, Fla., tried a 200-day calendar for one year before abandoning it because of insufficient financing.

Last year, legislators in Arkansas and New Mexico introduced bills to institute a 200-day school calendar, but both stalled. In Iowa, after Gov. Terry E. Branstad discussed the possibility of lengthening the school year at several town-hall-style meetings, protesters prompted the state to convene a study group to examine the issue.

Critics say that with so many schools already failing, giving them more time would do little to help students.

“It is true that we have an unfair society, and it is true that kids who are coming from the poorer backgrounds and whose parents don’t do a lot of reading are losing reading skills over the summer,” said Peter Gray, research professor of psychology at Boston College. “But let’s look at other solutions.” He added, “Whatever job we give to the school system, they ruin it.”

Advocates say that schools need to plan carefully how they will use the extra time. Some say that adding the kinds of art, music and other activities that more affluent students typically get outside school is as important as beefing up academics. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and the teachers’ union have been battling over his plan to lengthen the school day; an agreement was reached last month when the school district agreed to hire back teachers for more enrichment programs rather than simply forcing classroom teachers to work longer hours.

“Better is as important as the more,” said Jeannie Oakes, director of educational opportunity and scholarship programs at the Ford Foundation.

When Jeffrey Smith, superintendent of the Balsz district, arrived in 2008, he inherited a district where two of the five schools had been rated underperforming for several years running and the district was at risk of being taken over by the state.

With the recession pinching state and local budgets, Mr. Smith seized on an Arizona law that gave an additional 5 percent of state financing to districts that added 20 days to the school year.

While many parents supported the initiative, some teachers resisted, worried that they would not receive enough extra pay to compensate for the additional time. The school board voted in 2009 to extend the year, and with the additional state financing and a local property tax increase, the district raised teacher salaries by 9 percent.

Since the district transitioned to the longer calendar, the proportion of students passing state reading tests has gone to 65 percent from 51 percent, and math scores are also improving.

Some teachers say that it is a new curriculum, targeted tutoring and two hours of professional development a week, as much as the extra days, that have helped raise achievement.

“Quantity is great, if you have the quality to back it up,” said Kathleen Puryear, a 20-year veteran fourth-grade teacher.

The district has lost several teachers since the longer school year began. At Griffith, Alexis Wilson, the principal, said 10 out of 23 classroom teachers retired or resigned last year, some citing the 200-day schedule.

Given the choice, many children would also rather be out playing than sitting behind a desk. But Riziki Gloria, a fifth grader at David Crockett Elementary, a Balsz school that serves many refugees and homeless children, said that she was keen to get back to school. “Sometimes summer is really boring,” she said. “We just sit there and watch TV.”

Outside Griffith Elementary early last Monday morning, children and their parents arrived early, eager to start. Sheena Padia said she had chosen to send her sons Isaiah and Elias Mercado to Griffith even though they live outside the district, in part because of the 200-day calendar.

“I love it because it is more education for them,” said Ms. Padia, as Isaiah, 7, showed off new black-and-white Adidas sneakers and Elias, 5, brandished a mechanical pencil.

The shorter summer break seemed to help the students adjust quickly to being back in school. After the morning Pledge of Allegiance, Ms. Puryear’s fourth graders easily recited the school’s mantra: “No one has the right to interfere with the learning, safety or well-being of others.”

Down the hall, Sarah Ravel used the morning to review school disciplinary codes, and she played get-to-know-you games with her new sixth graders. By afternoon, it was down to schoolwork as she handed out a math review sheet.

Ms. Ravel sat at the front of the class, her left hand magnified to several times its size as she projected the work sheet onto a digital white board. Hands shot into the air, waving urgently. The class had hit a tricky problem: subtract 2 hours and 45 minutes from 5 hours and 20 minutes. Ms. Ravel carefully explained how to work out the solution.

“If you are not comfortable with that, know that we are going to do one of those every day for the next 200 days,” she said. “I guess I should say the next 199 days,” she amended. “So we are going to get really comfortable.”
153 2012-08-06 Ross Douthat (“Defining Religious Liberty Down,” column, July 29) doesn’t seem to understand that the Obama administration’s contraception rule prevents discrimination, not enables it. It ensures that employees who do not share their bosses’ beliefs will not have those beliefs imposed on them.

He is right about two things: religious freedom is one of our most treasured liberties, and religious liberty is not unlimited. Nor should it be. We have the absolute right to believe whatever we want about God, faith and religion.

And we have the right to act on our religious beliefs, unless those actions threaten the rights, welfare and well-being of others.

Blocking employees’ access to critical health care coverage is an act of discrimination, plain and simple. Real religious freedom gives everyone the right to make personal decisions — including whether and when to use birth control — based on our own beliefs, not those of our bosses.

Ross Douthat doesn’t acknowledge it, but since Oregon v. Smith (1990) neither the Catholic bishops nor anyone else is constitutionally entitled to religious exemptions from general laws. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote that such religious exemptions would make each citizen “a law unto himself” and were impracticable in a pluralistic society.

Since 1990, mostly because of pressure from conservative Christians, many “religious exemptions” have been written into state and federal law. But they go far beyond what the Constitution promises.
154 2012-08-06 When he abandoned the bar in 1999, Mr. Steele eulogized the Hungry Duck with statistics: 2,000 lost passports, 79 arrests in a single police narcotics raid and eight bullets fired in the bar (five in the ceiling, three in the floor).

The Hungry Duck’s ladies’ nights, where men were let in only after the women had entertained themselves for several hours with free drinks, were seedier.

“It was a legendary scene and a legendary experience, but I had to massively medicate myself with legal and illegal drugs every time I went there just to deal with it,” said Mark Ames, the editor of The eXile, an irreverent English-language newspaper that chronicled Russian night life in the 1990s. “Everything in Moscow was a form of exploitation at the time. This was just a really unvarnished and obvious version of exploitation.”

By 1998, Russian national television had aired several exposés about the bar’s male strip shows. That year, one Moscow tabloid reported that a 14-year-old girl had been raped in the bar. Mr. Steele said it was untrue, but there was never a police investigation.

Soon after, there were injunctions from health, fire and tax inspectors in what Mr. Steele called a concerted political effort to bankrupt the bar. Parliamentary deputies, recounting a fact-finding visit to the Hungry Duck on the floor of the State Duma in March 1999, demanded in an appeal to “all patriotic Russians” that the bar be closed.

“They let in our young girls from 14 years old for free. They drink beer and dance on the bar,” said Anatoly Kotkov, a former deputy from the Transformation of the Fatherland party. “A black man comes out and does a striptease. He dances to the anthem of the Soviet Union. I think that the time has passed when we allowed that to be done in our country.”

Five days later the bar closed down.

In the decade that followed, Moscow’s night life was transformed by sleek clubs like Diaghilev, named for the dance impresario, where the young of the haut monde thrashed to bass-heavy electronica under laser lights. Moscow’s newly wealthy class of magnates followed the action from skyboxes that cost tens of thousands of dollars to rent for a night.

During that period, Mr. Steele said he had floated the idea of reopening the Duck, but “friends in the police” told him the bar was still a sore topic.

Today, the Hungry Duck has been reincarnated as a monument to itself — a carefully considered multitiered sports bar with industrial-chic trappings. The toilets are covered with kitschy Soviet propaganda posters, and the toilet seats are chained to the walls. There is a gift shop.

At the recent opening night party, a heavily male crowd of expatriate professionals kept one eye peeled hopefully on the oval bar — a holdover from the ’90s, when the crowd, mostly women, used it more for dancing than for drinking.

As the evening wore on, young women, among them the Duck’s press representative, clambered or were reluctantly pushed onto the bartop; some danced with bravado while others swayed unsteadily, occasionally leaning down for a swig of white wine. A bartender, tossing ice cubes in the air and snagging them in highball glasses, yelled through an orange plastic bullhorn at the dancing girls as a voice booming over the loudspeakers reminded them to “go nuts.”

Tanya, 25, stumbled down from the bar to take off her high-heeled shoes. She had never heard about the Hungry Duck or the bartop dancing before a pair of friends invited her that day, she said. “I just looked up at the girls and I thought, ‘I can dance better than they can,’ ” she said, taking a sip of rum and coke. “But it’s really slippery up there.”
155 2012-08-06 As financial markets and investment techniques have become more complicated, the S.E.C. has tried to hire more specialists with work experience at Wall Street firms. To the degree that those new S.E.C. employees favor Wall Street interests, the concept of rigorous oversight would be undermined.

That is more than a theoretical concern. In May, the S.E.C. barred a former investigator, Spencer C. Barasch, from representing clients before the commission for one year after finding that he left the agency and worked for Stanford Financial, which he had investigated while at the S.E.C. The company later was determined to be a running a $7 billion Ponzi scheme.

Shivaram Rajgopal, an accounting professor at Emory and one of the authors of the new study, said that in most cases, the opposite occurs — S.E.C. enforcement officials who want to work as defense lawyers are more likely to follow aggressive enforcement practices that signal their competence to prospective employers.

“There is nothing inherently evil or wrong about the revolving door,” Dr. Rajgopal concluded. Like any rigorous study, the exact conclusions are limited to the particular group studied, he noted, “but it suggests that legislation against this could be counterproductive.”

The revolving door between the S.E.C. and Wall Street has long been the subject of attention.

In a July 2011 report, the Government Accountability Office found that while the S.E.C. required documentation when former employees went to work for companies the agency oversaw, it did not consistently document the conflict-of-interest advice it gave current and former employees.

In May 2011, the Project on Government Oversight published a database containing five years’ worth of S.E.C. revolving door data. It was based on statements filed by 219 former S.E.C. employees from 2006 to 2010. The agency requires the filings when former employees represent outside clients before the agency within two years of leaving.

Michael Smallberg, an investigator at the project, said that while the new study was valuable, it looked only at S.E.C. lawyers who were involved in litigation against investment companies.

“We found interactions between current and former S.E.C. employees that occurred long before an investigation got to the litigation stage,” Mr. Smallberg said. “We don’t have any disagreements with” the accounting group’s findings, he added. “But I don’t think a single study could possibly track all the ways that the revolving door could affect the S.E.C.”

The new study, whose authors are Simi Kedia of Rutgers, Ed deHaan of the University of Washington and Kevin Koh of Nanyang, in addition to Dr. Rajgopal, collected data on the career paths of 336 S.E.C. lawyers and their involvement in 284 S.E.C. enforcement actions from 1990 through 2007.

It found that roughly one-third of those lawyers left to join private law firms — the types of jobs most often cited as evidence of revolving-door outcomes. But the study found no evidence that the enforcement results produced by revolving-door lawyers while they were at the S.E.C. differed from those of lawyers who remained at the S.E.C. or who went on to other fields of work.

In addition, revolving-door lawyers who specifically went on to law firms that specialized in S.E.C. matters produced, while at the agency, more aggressive enforcement outcomes, with higher penalties, a greater likelihood of criminal charges and a greater chance that a chief executive was named as a defendant in the S.E.C. action.

Robert Khuzami, director of enforcement at the S.E.C., said those results “confirm what we have always observed and believed.”

“By hiring someone who used to work at a regulator, a company wants their expertise, but it also wants them to have credibility within the agency,” Mr. Khuzami said. “They’re not going to have that if they cut corners and weren’t principled while they were there.”
156 2012-08-06 Charles Ives represents the newer end of the compositional spectrum on many programs. But as the cellist Kevin McFarland said before the JACK Quartet’s performance of the second movement of Ives’s String Quartet No. 2 on Saturday afternoon, “It’s still kind of an early piece for us.”

Ives is almost conventional fare for this excellent ensemble, which often commissions new works and has worked with an impressive number of prominent composers, including Helmut Lachenmann, Matthias Pintscher, Georg Friedrich Haas and Wolfgang Rihm, as well as a bevy of younger ones.

The Ives piece, which Mr. McFarland called the “first example of musical mash-up,” still startles with its brash extremes. Snippets of familiar melodies from Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 and an eclectic range of other works are woven through it.

The other, genuinely early piece on the program, performed on Governors Island as part of the Rite of Summer Music Festival, was an arrangement (by Ari Streisfeld, a violinist in the group) of a harmonically striking, melancholy piece by the medieval composer Guillaume de Machaut. Along with contemporary music, Mr. Streisfeld said, the ensemble — whose other two members are the violinist Christopher Otto and the violist John Pickford Richards — likes to find experimental composers from much earlier periods.

Also harmonically vivid was Brian Baumbusch’s intense “Mantle Eruption,” with its simmering trancelike section. Mr. Baumbusch wrote the piece during a recent stay in Bali, where the ensemble performed it. The one-hour program on Governors Island included three other arresting works by living composers: moody, Minimalist-influenced music that lured the picnicking audience into attentive silence. The shaded grassy area at Colonels’ Row is an ideal setting for an outdoor classical concert, without the distracting traffic noises that inevitably interrupt many summer events. Amplification didn’t tarnish these works, as it might a Mozart symphony.

Steve Reich and Philip Glass seemed the dominant influences on all the featured living composers. David Crowell’s alluring, vibrant “Open Road” evoked expansive vistas. After a stately opening and sparse textures, the music morphed into an energetic canvas with a fast Minimalist pulse.
157 2012-08-06 Certainly that is what many of the spectators were hoping to see as they shouted his name during Pistorius’s walk to the starting line. While his competitors stripped off their warm-up pants, Pistorius — who did not wear any — just hopped in place to stay warm. When the call came for the runners to take their marks, he slipped off his jacket and rolled his neck before settling into the blocks for what was surely the biggest race of his life.

“I’ve got to give him credit,” the Bahamian sprinter Demetrius Pinder said, “because I think he’s under more pressure than the rest of us.”

Pistorius, 25, has faced unusual challenges. Born without fibulas, he had both legs amputated below the knee before his first birthday, and he has battled for years to compete against able-bodied athletes. Four years ago, he qualified for the Beijing Games but was ruled ineligible by track’s world governing body because his blades were deemed to give him a competitive advantage.

That decision was struck down by the Court of Arbitration for Sport, but the ruling came too late for Pistorius to compete in China. It appeared he had missed his chance to qualify for the 400 here, too, after he did not meet the South African Olympic Committee’s qualifying standard at several races leading up to the Games. But the committee announced last month that Pistorius was worthy of a spot on the team and would run both the 400 and the 4x400-meter relay.

Given his previous results, expectations were not high. But Pistorius stunned the track world Saturday when he made it through to the semifinals. Then came Sunday, a night already filled with drama.

Beyond Pistorius — and, of course, Usain Bolt’s dazzling defense of his 100-meter Olympic title — there was Olga Rypakova earning just the second track and field gold medal for Kazakhstan since the dissolution of the Soviet Union when she won the triple jump; Ezekiel Kemboi extending Kenya’s gold medal streak in the 3,000-meter steeplechase to 28 years with an 8-minute-18.56-second performance; Hungary’s Krisztian Pars dominating in the men’s hammer throw on the way to his first gold; and the American Sanya Richards-Ross winning the women’s 400 in 49.55 against a field that included the defending Olympic gold medalist, Christine Ohuruogu of Britain, and the 2011 world champion, Amantle Montsho of Botswana.

Still, Pistorius’s story could not be glossed over. Not for the fans and not for his competitors, either. James, who is the defending world champion in the 400, admires Pistorius’s passion.

“Oscar is someone special, especially in our event,” James said. “It’s a memorable moment for me to be out here performing with him.”

Despite being inspiring to many, Pistorius’s Olympic journey has not been without controversy. Opinions vary on Pistorius’s J-shaped blades, known as Cheetahs, with some believing the prosthetics give him an edge over his competition. One argument cited frequently is based on the opinion put forth by track’s world governing body in its earlier decision: that Pistorius has to expend less energy than other athletes while covering the same distances.

To others, the notion that an amputee would have an edge over runners who compete with their natural legs is absurd. Among the factors often mentioned by defenders of Pistorius is the manner in which he starts his races.

In Sunday’s semifinal, for example, Pistorius popped straight up off the starting blocks. It is a necessary maneuver, a consequence of his springy blades. But it is not ideal. The preferred method is to shoot out low, reducing wind resistance.

On Saturday, Pistorius was able to recover from his start. On Sunday, he could not do the same. Pistorius, who started in Lane 5, clearly trailed by the time the field reached the backstretch. As the runners turned for home, the only question was whether he would be able to hold off Venezuela’s Albert Bravo for seventh place. He could not.

When Pistorius crossed the finish line, however, James was waiting for him. Almost immediately the two men pulled at the bibs pinned on their shirts, making an exchange that seemed to make a statement about Pistorius’s place in the track world.

“He’s an inspiration to all of us,” James said. “He’s a down-to-earth guy and a great individual. I thought it was a nice gesture.”

Pistorius was touched. Just seconds after finishing last in a race he had dreamed about for years, Pistorius did not look disappointed. He was beaming.

“As soon as we crossed the line, we’re friends,” Pistorius said. “It’s what the Olympics is all about.”
158 2012-08-06 Riad al-Malki, the Palestinian foreign minister, said Saturday that President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority would use his Sept. 27 speech at the United Nations to make his case for observer-state status, but would not ask the General Assembly to vote on the matter until late November. Last year, the United States vowed to veto Mr. Abbas’s statehood bid in the United Nations Security Council, and it has pressured Palestinian officials not to force the issue again before the American presidential election.

Unlike the Security Council, where the issue died in a deadlocked committee vote last year, the General Assembly is virtually guaranteed to support the Palestinians’ request, with perhaps 130 of its 193 members voting in favor of it. Observer-state status, akin to the Vatican’s status, is less than what the Palestinians requested from the Security Council, but would allow them access to institutions like the International Criminal Court, where they could, for example, pursue legal cases against Israeli settlers and officials for actions in the West Bank.

A senior Palestinian official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the internal deliberations, said that the timing of the request would not be decided until after a Sept. 5 meeting of Arab nations, but that one leading possibility was to ask for a vote on Nov. 29, the 65th anniversary of the United Nations vote to partition the territory of Palestine into Jewish and Arab states. “Many diplomats have said it would be very difficult for their country on the 29th of November not to vote in favor,” the official said.

Khalil Shikaki, a Ramallah pollster and political analyst, said that public support among Palestinians for a United Nations bid had dropped to 73 percent in June from 83 percent last September, but that it still significantly outweighed enthusiasm for other options, like a unilateral declaration of statehood; nonviolent or violent resistance; and a dissolution of the Palestinian Authority.

“He is doing it because he is running out of other options,” Mr. Shikaki said of Mr. Abbas. “It will certainly give him greater legitimacy at home.”

The timing “gives him a little bit of bargaining power,” he added. After the November election, the American president will have “greater flexibility” to “begin a dialogue with Abbas, and Abbas can say, ‘O.K., I’m willing to postpone the vote if you give me a better option.’ ”

But Israel and the United States have both denounced the Palestinians’ decision to choose a United Nations path, saying that only direct negotiations can resolve the long-running conflict. An internal Palestinian document about the United Nations bid outlines a host of possible negative responses, including a freeze of United States aid to the Palestinian Authority and closing the P.L.O.’s diplomatic mission in Washington.

Israel, the document says, might seize Palestinian taxes it collects; further restrict the movements of Palestinians; suspend building permits in the parts of the West Bank under Israeli control; and take steps toward a unilateral withdrawal, essentially pre-defining the borders of a future Palestinian state.

The senior Israeli official, also speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to do otherwise, said Israel saw the renewed United Nations action as a particular slap after several recent gestures, including the release of Palestinian bodies buried in Israel; the signing of a tax agreement with the Palestinian Authority; the advance of aid to ensure salaries were paid before Ramadan; and an agreement to develop a gas field off the Gaza shore.

“All this shows how much can be gained through dialogue, through discussion, through engagement,” he said. Returning to the United Nations is “the opposition of engagement, that’s going unilaterally,” he added. “I don’t see what good can come from this.”

The cancellation of the Ramallah conference came as an Israeli airstrike killed a Palestinian militant and seriously wounded another in the southern Gaza Strip town of Rafah.

The strike on a motorcycle, which came after two months of relative calm, killed Eid Oukal, 22, and wounded Ahmed Sai’d Isma’i, members of the Popular Resistance Committees, a militant group loyal to the Hamas movement, which governs Gaza, and also said to have ties to a separate group, the Tawhid and Jihad organization.

A statement by the Israeli Defense Force said that Mr. Isma’i was “among those responsible” for killing an Israeli construction worker along the Egypt border in June, and that both men were planning a terrorist attack against Israeli civilians on the border.

Late Sunday, two rockets fired from Gaza exploded in southern Israel, according to Agence France-Presse, but a military spokesman said they caused no casualties or damage.
159 2012-08-06 END--Jacqueline The world has lost an amazing woman, loving sister, aunt, and friend, a multi-talented artist, published author, famous advertising writer, astoundingly gifted cook, photographer and lover of animals, particularly cats. She is surv...
160 2012-08-06 Major banks, which often band together when facing government scrutiny, are now turning on one another as an international investigation into the manipulation of interest rates gains momentum.     With billions of dollars and their reputations on ...
161 2012-08-06 SAN JOSE, Calif. - Back in the early 1930s, a magician by the name of Horace Goldin went to court to defend his signature illusion: sawing a woman in half.     Mr. Goldin filed a lawsuit against the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company for using this ma...
162 2012-08-07 When something that was originally slapdash and spontaneous becomes big business, part of the fun always seems to go out of it, a phenomenon that you can feel throughout “Nitro Circus: The Movie 3D.” Hurtling skyward off a rickety ramp to do a crazy flip on a tricycle, once the kind of nutty daredevilry that gave the Nitro Circus stunt troupe its signature attitude, feels like work here more than it does play.

Maybe that’s because extreme sports have gone mainstream since Nitro Circus first gained television exposure on MTV and other outlets. Or maybe it’s because the film is structured around the creation of a live Nitro Circus stage show at the MGM Grand. Nothing says “forfeiting our rebel status” like a Las Vegas casino show.

Not that some of the stunts in this film aren’t impressive. Leaping off a 63-story skyscraper in Panama certainly borders on insane.

But only a couple of times do the stunts have that extra ingredient — wit — that makes this kind of thing amusing to watch. One such bit deserves a commendation of some kind: Nitro Circus has finally found a way to make golf, one of the world’s more plodding spectator sports, interesting. In the troupe’s version you ride a bicycle down a ramp, go airborne and try to drop off the bike and land in a hole in a giant inflated golf ball. No bogies or birdies here; your options are either to get a hole in one or to bounce off the ball and land in a limb-threatening heap.

Another keen-looking stunt involves being propelled via ramp and ski rope into a lake. “I want to try that,” you may be saying, until one troupe member raises his shirt to show the frightful purple souvenir he received on his side from his somewhat errant takeoff.

Also in the injury department, the film ends up being somewhat disingenuous. It repeatedly brags about the danger of the activities, but when one member, Jim DeChamp, appears to be seriously hurt in a car-rolling stunt, it provides few details of those injuries. Too much reality can spoil the illusion of consequence-free recklessness.
163 2012-08-07 Erin Leddy in a scene from her solo performance.
164 2012-08-07 A judge approved a $4.8 million settlement between the Justice Department and Morgan Stanley over accusations of price fixing in the electricity market, even as he said that the settlement amount was too low....
165 2012-08-07 In a study, doing at least two and a half hours a week of either aerobic exercise or weight training substantially lowered the risk of Type 2 diabetes -- but doing both may offer the greatest benefit....
166 2012-08-07 The van is based on the same model selected earlier this year as the official taxi vehicle of New York City....
167 2012-08-07 On Tuesday, voters in Missouri, Michigan, Washington and Kansas will pick their candidates for the House and Senate....
168 2012-08-07 The federal agency released data indicating pedestrian fatalities increased 4 percent in 2010, the most recent period for which N.H.T.S.A. had releasable records, relative to 2009 levels....
169 2012-08-07 Audiences come through, as expected, as three productions close....
170 2012-08-07 Regulators accuse Standard Chartered of laundering billions for Iran. | Betting on a takeover to save Best Buy. | Finding unjustified medical procedures at hospital chain HCA.
171 2012-08-07 Wade M. Page's ties to the white supremacist movement, Apple cuts a cord with Google, and Hollywood celebrities turn out for an Obama fund-raiser in Connecticut....
172 2012-08-07 Banks have shifted toward secured borrowing and, on occasion, borrowing from central banks like the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. As Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, said of Libor in 2008: “It is, in many ways, the rate at which banks do not lend to each other.”

These changes in the markets raise questions about the integrity of this important benchmark.

First, why is Libor so different from another benchmark interest rate for borrowing in United States dollars — Euribor, or euro interbank offered rate? Both rates are calculated on the basis of banks’ answers to roughly the same question. For Libor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks it can borrow, while for Euribor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks other banks are able to borrow. And yet the Euribor for dollar borrowings is about twice as high as the comparable Libor.

Second, why have Libor and other benchmark rates typically not been aligned, since 2008, with the borrowing rates that would be implied by foreign exchange markets? A long-established financial theory known as interest rate parity says that the difference in interest rates between two countries should be roughly in line with the expected change in exchange rates between the countries’ currencies. (If it isn’t, that opens an opportunity for arbitrage, the practice of taking advantage of price differences.)

Until 2007, as the theory predicted, the difference between the borrowing rate in one currency and the lending rate in another could typically be derived from foreign currency exchange rates. In the last few years, that hasn’t been the case, and this divergence between theory and practice has yet to be adequately explained.

Third, why is the volatility of the dollar-denominated Libor so much lower than the volatility of other short-term credit market rates? Just like stocks and bonds, short-term interest rates experience a certain volatility. But Libor has less severe swings than comparable rates.

In addition, the variation in rates that some banks submit to the British Bankers’ Association — the private group that oversees Libor — don’t seem to match the variation in the rates for their credit default swaps (financial instruments that are similar to insurance and are one measure of a bank’s credit risk). There have been times when the swap rates have widened for particular banks (suggesting a growing credit risk) even as their Libor submissions have remained stable (suggesting that the banks’ borrowing costs haven’t changed).

Anyone saving or borrowing for the future has a real stake in the integrity of Libor and in the answers to these questions.

When the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees derivatives markets, began looking into interest-rate setting in 2008, we were guided not only by questions about the decline of actual unsecured lending among banks, the supposed basis of Libor, but also by our founding statute, the Commodity Exchange Act. The law prohibits attempts to manipulate and falsely report information that tends to affect the price of a commodity — including interest rates like Libor.

Markets work best when benchmark rates are based on observable transactions. The public is shortchanged if Libor, the emperor of rates, is not clothed in such transactions.

One solution might be to use other benchmark rates — like the overnight index swaps rate, which is tied to the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight — that are based on real transactions. There are also benchmark rates based on actual short-term secured financings (loans in which collateral is pledged) between banks and other financial institutions.

For any new or revised benchmark to be broadly accepted by the financial markets, borrowers, lenders and hedgers who rely on Libor would benefit from a process for an orderly transition.

The Barclays case demonstrates that Libor has become more vulnerable to misconduct. It’s time for a new or revised benchmark — an emperor clothed in actual, observable market transactions — to restore the confidence of Americans that the rates at which they borrow and lend money are set honestly and transparently.
173 2012-08-07 BOSTON — James (Whitey) Bulger, the feared Boston mob boss accused of committing 19 murders three decades ago, intends to take the stand at his own trial, his lawyer, J. W. Carney Jr., said Monday.

It is a highly unusual legal strategy to announce this far in advance that a defendant will testify at his own trial — which, in this case, is not expected to start until March at the earliest.

But Mr. Bulger, 82, is also offering a highly unusual defense. His lawyer said Monday that Mr. Bulger, who was an informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, would tell jurors that the government had given him immunity from prosecution — in effect, that he had a license to kill.

Long on the F.B.I.’s Most Wanted list, Mr. Bulger was believed to have been the king of Boston’s crime underworld while he was acting as an informer. He disappeared in the mid-1990s after being tipped off by an F.B.I. agent that he was about to be indicted. He was caught in June 2011 in Santa Monica, Calif., after 16 years on the run and was accused of committing 19 murders.

His girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 61, pleaded guilty to helping him elude authorities and was sentenced this year to eight years in prison.

Mr. Carney said in federal court on Monday that Mr. Bulger would take the stand in his own defense.

Speaking to reporters later outside the courthouse, Mr. Carney added: “Before this litigation is over, he wants the opportunity to speak the truth to everybody about why he was able to spend 30 years allegedly committing a whole host of crimes and was never indicted by the federal government until the ’90s.”
174 2012-08-07 “It’s a very Democratic voting population, but it’s not registered or turning out at the same rate as their married counterparts,” said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who has canvassed single women for the Voter Participation Center in Washington, pointing out that Mr. Obama had won among single women by a wide margin, but lost married women by three percentage points.

In 2010, though, turnout among single women, especially 18-to-29-year-olds, dropped more than for other groups, and Republicans won the women’s vote for the first time in 30 years. “The terrain is very fertile,” Ms. Lake continued, “but we have to till the field.”

In an election focused on the economy, single women present a complicated case. They already earn less than married people and single men, and they have not fared well during the Obama administration. They have had a harder time than married women paying rent, getting medical care and finding jobs. While the jobless rate for married women has stayed relatively low, at 5.6 percent compared with 2.6 percent before the , the rate for unmarried women has risen to 11 percent, from a prerecession level of 6 percent.

Still, polling and focus groups show that single women are reluctant to blame Mr. Obama for their economic woes and tend to approve of a greater role for government in crises. Their reliance on programs like welfare, food stamps and has grown significantly since 2007. In 2010, 55 percent of their households got some form of assistance, not counting school lunches, compared with 18 percent of married women’s households.

“There’s definitely an opening” for Republicans to court single women, said Courtney Johnson, who oversees women’s outreach for the Romney campaign. “I think women are looking for something different at this point. They’re saying, ‘I don’t like how things are going right now.’ ”

Both the Obama and the Romney campaigns say they are not drafting messages specifically for single women, even though single women have strikingly different concerns and voting habits than married women have. “How many campaigns start out with an ad that shows a happily married candidate, perfect kids, and talk about the marriage ?” Ms. Lake asked. “And you wonder why single women don’t turn out to vote.”

The economy has damped enthusiasm among even core members of Mr. Obama’s base. In 2008, Carolyn Essex, 52, a black single mother in Las Vegas, knocked on doors and held house parties for Mr. Obama.

Not this year. Ms. Essex and her 9-year-old son are a step away from homelessness, living in transitional housing. “Right now,” she said, “what’s more important is that I find a job.”

Democrats say single women are highly motivated by women’s issues like threats to rights, access to contraception and equal pay, arguing that what seem like social issues have a direct impact on their bottom line.

But Republicans insist those concerns have been trumped by the poor economy. “Rome is burning — our country’s burning — and you’re concerned about these issues?” asked Maureen Karas, southern director for the Nevada Federation of Republican Women. “ pills are like nine bucks. That’s like two lattes.”

Democrats point to several races in which single women were the deciding factor, like the narrow victory of Senator , a Democrat, in . More recently, though on a much smaller scale, women voters in a Democratic primary in North Las Vegas helped defeat a white male incumbent state senator, John Lee, in favor of a political newcomer, Patricia Spearman, who was outspent by a factor of 15.

Opponents of Mr. Lee made central issues of his support for restricting abortion rights and access to contraception. Fifty-four percent of the voters were women, and almost a third of them had never voted in a primary before, according to an analysis by Mr. Lee’s opponents.

“When you educate people about these issues,” said Annette Magnus, the public affairs manager for the Nevada Advocates for Planned Parenthood Affiliates, which helped campaign against Mr. Lee, “they actually do go out and vote.”

Opinion research shows that single women are less responsive to issues that have no immediate bearing on their daily lives, like corporate tax rates or the federal debt.

Tabitha Farr, a 32-year-old divorced mother of two whose income as a waitress has plummeted since the recession, agreed. “Deficit?” she said. “No. I think about, ‘Can I pay for my child care this week?’ ”

In several interviews, women of various political stripes said they believed that the president could do little to help them personally, or bolster prosperity in general.

“I feel like it doesn’t matter how I vote, what I think. They’re going to do what they’re going to do anyway,” said Jeannine Loewy, 35, a divorced mother of two and a hairstylist who has lost a quarter of her clients since the recession. “And we just have to deal with it.”

That feeling may fuel one of the Democrats’ great hopes — that threats to abortion rights, attacks on Planned Parenthood and objections to the ’s requirement that plans cover birth control pills — will prove to be more meaningful for single women than jobs plans.

“I don’t think a new president will do much to help the economy,” said Diane Jackson, 61, a former who is looking for work. “But I do see Obama at least protecting us from a radical takeover on social issues.”
175 2012-08-07 A mosque in Joplin burned to the ground early Monday in the second fire at the Islamic center in little more than a month, officials said. No injuries were reported, and no charges have been filed in connection with the fire at the Islamic Center of Joplin. Imam Lahmuddin, who leads the mosque and was in the building until late Sunday, said he was saddened and shocked over the fire. “But since we are people of faith,” he said, “we just can remember that this is a thing that happened because God let it happen. And we have to be patient, particularly in the month of Ramadan — control our emotions, our anger.” A fire at the mosque on July 4 caused minor damage and was determined to be arson. The F.B.I. is investigating the cause of the latest fire and whether it was also the result of arson, an agency spokeswoman said.
176 2012-08-07 Voters in Missouri on Tuesday will get to decide on an amendment to the State Constitution, which is supposedly intended to clarify the status of religion in Missouri’s public places. According to the amendment’s sponsor, Representative Mike McGhee, a Republican in the State House, the measure is needed to make clear that prayer is a right.

But the amendment is unnecessary because the state and federal constitutions and court rulings already guarantee these rights. It would, instead, create confusion and wreak havoc in classrooms by giving students the right to refuse to read anything or do any assignments that they claim offends their religious views.

The ballot summary about the amendment says it would ensure right of citizens to express their religious beliefs without infringement and students the right to pray in schools. The actual words the State Legislature approved in the amendment, however, would do more.

They would allow students who believe in creationism, for example, to opt out of assignments on evolution: “no student shall be compelled to perform or participate in academic assignments or educational presentations that violate his or her religious beliefs.” This language would almost certainly lead to litigation about who controls the curriculum in public schools.

Another change could lead to litigation about where nonsectarian, constitutional invocations cross the line into sectarian, unconstitutional prayers; instead of seeking the Almighty’s blessing, for example, officials at public events could ask for Jesus’s blessing.

The wording would further encourage “the General Assembly and the governing bodies of political subdivisions” to invite ministers and others “to offer invocations or other prayers” at public sessions.

Amendment 2 springs from the view that religious freedom is vulnerable unless the Missouri Constitution is revised. But the Missouri Supreme Court has already said that the protection of religious freedom by the State Constitution is more “explicit” than what the First Amendment provides and its protection against government establishment of religion more “restrictive.”
177 2012-08-07 So it turns out that federal spending is important to the economy after all.

As Nelson Schwartz reported in The Times on Monday, a number of manufacturers say they are canceling plans for investing and hiring, in part, because they fear that some $100 billion in budget cuts will take effect in 2013. In all, the law currently calls for $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over 10 years, starting Jan. 1, divided between nondefense programs and defense projects.

Republican lawmakers demanded the cuts last year as part of their brinkmanship over the , and business lobbies have generally supported slashing the deficit. But now that the cuts are imminent, corporate executives seem to have realized that the last thing the economy needs is a large budget cut across the board.

They’re right about that. According to the , the combined impact of the automatic spending cuts plus the scheduled expiration of the — the so-called fiscal cliff — would cause the economy to contract in the first half of 2013. Some business leaders seem to think the solution is for Congress to act as soon as possible to avert the spending cuts and to extend all of the cuts. That would avoid an economic downturn next year, but it would also mean no progress toward long-term deficit reduction.

The best approach is to delay the blow of lower federal spending, thus shielding businesses from a sudden drop in support, and, at the same time, temporarily extend the Bush-era tax cuts for most Americans and let them expire for those making more than $250,000 a year, as has proposed. That would raise revenue and be a credible step toward long-term deficit reduction, without harming the recovery, because high-end tax increases do not cut deeply into consumer spending.

Politically, such a deal can probably be struck only in 2013, after the spending cuts have kicked in and the tax cuts have expired, assuming Mr. Obama wins re-election. Republican lawmakers, confronting the consequences of the spending cuts, would have to come to the conclusion that delaying both defense and nondefense spending cuts would be best for today’s economy. As for the tax cuts, letting them all expire could pressure Republicans to renew them for the middle class, while letting them end for the rich.

That is crucial because higher taxes for top earners is necessary for the nation to begin to raise the revenue it needs. And until the rich pay more, there will never be a national consensus for tax increases on middle-income Americans, which will eventually be needed to further curb long-term deficits.
178 2012-08-07 It also let launder money on a grand scale, according to a Senate report, and it evaded laws intended to stop banks from doing business with and . Perhaps most astonishing, the report said it had conducted business for many years with Al Rajhi, a bank in whose founder was an benefactor.

All of this is detailed in the report, 335 pages long, issued a few weeks ago by Senator . It reads like a racketeering indictment of the Genovese crime family, replete with evidence that senior officials knew the contours of the game.

“This is a global bank that failed to comply with rules aimed at combating terrorism, drug trafficking and the money laundering that fuels so much of what threatens the global community,” Mr. Levin said.

The financial industry in 2012 offers itself as almost a Medellín cartel of shady and unscrupulous dealings.

Northeast of HSBC’s headquarters sits that of , a venerable bank that of late admitted to fixing , an obscure interest rate that underpins trillions of dollars in investments. A wee nudge here and there, and a clever bank insider could make tens of millions of dollars. If such corruptions result in New York City’s paying a million dollars more to build a block of low-income housing, que sera sera and all that.

Barclays quickly cut its losses, settling for $450 million and the resignation of a senior official or three. As a public defender in Manhattan Criminal Court would tell you, it’s always good to get out ahead of trouble.

analysts — in a recent internal summary — sounded admiring: Barclays paid a smaller fine because “the firm was early and cooperative with regulators.”

Now other banks are rolling on each other, eager to pay whatever hundreds of millions of dollars in fines are needed to get back to business as usual. , on 52nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, has turned over e-mails and documents implicating (60 Wall Street), (on East 40th Street) and HSBC.

UBS is a repeat offender. In a less fashionable venue, it might face a stiff sentence. In recent years, it conspired to defraud the by creating 17,000 secret Swiss accounts for Americans who wanted to commit fraud. Two of its top officials, including the bank’s global general counsel, settled insider trading charges a few years back.

New York barred that counsel, David D. Aufhauser, from practicing law in the state for two years. No worries. About a year later, he became a partner in Washington for Williams & Connolly, specializing in financial services.

A jog to the east finds , whose executives are prominent players in this city’s gilded social circuit. Last month, it agreed to pay at least $175 million because brokers who originated its consistently charged higher fees and interest rates to black and Hispanic borrowers than to white borrowers with similar histories.

A former employee described to me the bank’s habit of systematically targeting blacks and Latinos for the worst loans. The bank was, this employee said, “riding the stagecoach from hell.”

Wells Fargo, of course, admitted no guilt. When do they ever? A few months ago, of acknowledged mistakes in losing a few, maybe 10, billion dollars in badly supervised trades. As for HSBC, the bank of choice for so many money launderers? Irene Dorner, chief executive of the United States operation, told a Senate committee, “We have some ways to go to regain the trust of regulators and the public.”

Actual guilt is the province of those unfortunates who sat jammed in serried rows in Manhattan Criminal Court. Here, almost everyone admits guilt — or risks trial.

“I was in the park next to my building at 12:15, so they arrested me for loitering,” said a man named Francisco. “It’s nonsense. But I’ve got a job — what am I supposed to do, take off more days and have a trial?

“Easier to say guilty, you know?”

Not for the men and women in the city’s executive suites.
179 2012-08-07 Banks have shifted toward secured borrowing and, on occasion, borrowing from central banks like the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. As Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, said of Libor in 2008: “It is, in many ways, the rate at which banks do not lend to each other.”

These changes in the markets raise questions about the integrity of this important benchmark.

First, why is Libor so different from another benchmark interest rate for borrowing in United States dollars — Euribor, or euro interbank offered rate? Both rates are calculated on the basis of banks’ answers to roughly the same question. For Libor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks it can borrow, while for Euribor, a bank is asked at what rate it thinks other banks are able to borrow. And yet the Euribor for dollar borrowings is about twice as high as the comparable Libor.

Second, why have Libor and other benchmark rates typically not been aligned, since 2008, with the borrowing rates that would be implied by foreign exchange markets? A long-established financial theory known as interest rate parity says that the difference in interest rates between two countries should be roughly in line with the expected change in exchange rates between the countries’ currencies. (If it isn’t, that opens an opportunity for arbitrage, the practice of taking advantage of price differences.)

Until 2007, as the theory predicted, the difference between the borrowing rate in one currency and the lending rate in another could typically be derived from foreign currency exchange rates. In the last few years, that hasn’t been the case, and this divergence between theory and practice has yet to be adequately explained.

Third, why is the volatility of the dollar-denominated Libor so much lower than the volatility of other short-term credit market rates? Just like stocks and bonds, short-term interest rates experience a certain volatility. But Libor has less severe swings than comparable rates.

In addition, the variation in rates that some banks submit to the British Bankers’ Association — the private group that oversees Libor — don’t seem to match the variation in the rates for their credit default swaps (financial instruments that are similar to insurance and are one measure of a bank’s credit risk). There have been times when the swap rates have widened for particular banks (suggesting a growing credit risk) even as their Libor submissions have remained stable (suggesting that the banks’ borrowing costs haven’t changed).

Anyone saving or borrowing for the future has a real stake in the integrity of Libor and in the answers to these questions.

When the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees derivatives markets, began looking into interest-rate setting in 2008, we were guided not only by questions about the decline of actual unsecured lending among banks, the supposed basis of Libor, but also by our founding statute, the Commodity Exchange Act. The law prohibits attempts to manipulate and falsely report information that tends to affect the price of a commodity — including interest rates like Libor.

Markets work best when benchmark rates are based on observable transactions. The public is shortchanged if Libor, the emperor of rates, is not clothed in such transactions.

One solution might be to use other benchmark rates — like the overnight index swaps rate, which is tied to the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight — that are based on real transactions. There are also benchmark rates based on actual short-term secured financings (loans in which collateral is pledged) between banks and other financial institutions.

For any new or revised benchmark to be broadly accepted by the financial markets, borrowers, lenders and hedgers who rely on Libor would benefit from a process for an orderly transition.

The Barclays case demonstrates that Libor has become more vulnerable to misconduct. It’s time for a new or revised benchmark — an emperor clothed in actual, observable market transactions — to restore the confidence of Americans that the rates at which they borrow and lend money are set honestly and transparently.
180 2012-08-07 Fighting confidently, she jumped to an 8-4 lead in Round 1 against her Venezuelan opponent, Karlha Magliocco.

“That’s why I win so much,” Esparza said. “I’m usually up after the first round.”

Esparza won the other three rounds as well. The final score was 24-16.

Her next opponent will be Ren Cancan of China, the No. 1 seed in the 112-pound division. Both fighters tend to be cautious.

“We’re definitely going to be staring at each other for half the fight,” Esparza, a five-time national champion, said.

Shields, a bold and seemingly fearless 17-year-old from Flint, Mich., had a tougher start, losing the first round to Anna Laurell, 32, of Sweden, a world champion in 2001 and in 2005.

Shields threw wild punches throughout the bout, some of them missing by two feet. But she solidly connected in Round 4, and the older woman seemed to lose heart. The score was 17-14.

The next opponent for Shields will be Marina Volnova of Kazakhstan, a 23-year-old who stunned Britain’s Savannah Marshall, the No. 1 seed in the 165-pound division. The winner of that bout will fight Jinzi Li of China or Nadezda Torlopova of Russia.

This is the first time female boxers are competing in the Olympics, and only 36 women were split among three weight classes.

For the United States, which has been flailing in Olympic boxing for a generation, the inclusion of females is fortunate. In Beijing, the team won only a single bronze medal. Now it is assured of at least two.

Only one of nine American men remains in contention. Though the welterweight Errol Spence lost a 13-11 decision on Friday, officials later awarded him the victory, saying Krishan Vikas, his Indian opponent, committed fouls that were not penalized. Spence fights in the quarterfinals Tuesday.
181 2012-08-07 The brand began selling a small vibrator, the Mini, in 2009, and the larger Tri-Phoria in 2010. The strategy throughout for Trojan, a Church & Dwight brand, has been to challenge the stigmas associated with the products.

The company has advertised aggressively, even during prime time on some cable networks. In 2011, Trojan spent $10.5 million advertising its Vibrations line, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.

Today, the Trojan devices are carried in retailers that were not on the radar for sex-toy shoppers a decade ago, including Walmart, Walgreens, CVS and Rite Aid.

So new are the devices to mainstream retailers that growth in that channel has been phenomenal. In the 52 weeks that ended July 8, revenue for sexual enhancement devices sold in drugstores and mass retailers grew 23.2 percent over the year before, to $16.1 million, according to the Symphony IRI Group, whose totals do not include Walmart. Trojan, which accounts for 66.2 percent of the category at such retailers, grew even more over the year, by 40.2 percent.

According to studies financed by Trojan and published in The Journal of Sexual Medicine, 52.5 percent of women and 44.8 percent of men have used vibrators. Contrary to perceptions that they are used nearly exclusively by the unaccompanied, 40.9 percent of women and 40.5 percent of men report having used them with sexual partners.

“What we’re doing is taking something like a hot dog cart that is so everyday and so mainstream,” Mr. Weiss said, “and we’re showing people that vibrators are mainstream.”

Two commercials for the newest Trojan Vibrations product, Twister, which retails for $60, promote it as a spark for couples. One begins with a woman on the telephone with a friend.

“All I did was mention it might be a Trojan Twister night and things totally changed,” she says, as her husband passes by first with a load of folded laundry, and then with an iron and ironing board.

“Come on, lazybones, shoe sale today,” he says at one point. Later, he pats the couch beside him with one hand, the remote in the other. “Big game?” he says. “Heck no, let’s watch ‘Desperate Bride Makeovers.’ ”

The campaign is by Colangelo Synergy Marketing in Darien, Conn., part of the Omnicom Group.

Carol Queen, curator of the Antique Vibrator Museum and a staff sexologist for Good Vibrations, a sexual products retailer founded in 1977, credits the new Trojan ads with “pretty seamlessly integrating men into the campaign.”

As both a sales strategy and to more accurately reflect how the devices are used, “a company needs to overcome this notion that vibrators are problematic for couples because men don’t like women to use them,” Ms. Queen said.

Rather than seeing the growing availability of the devices at mass retailers as a threat to specialty retailers like Good Vibrations, Ms. Queen said, “what’s fabulous about the way that Trojan has entered the marketplace is that a rising tide lifts all boats.”

Some consumers who buy their first device as an impulse buy at a mass retailer are apt to eventually be drawn to boutiques like Good Vibrations, which along with Trojan devices has a wide selection of other brands — and knowledgeable staff members.

“Going to a sexuality store like Good Vibrations or many others, you have trained people who can answer your questions and help you choose,” Ms. Queen said. “What most customers are probably not doing is getting the greeter at Walmart to come with them to the vibrator aisle and asking them, ‘Which one should I get?’ ”

Claire Cavanah, co-owner of Babeland, a sexual products shop with locations in Seattle and New York, lauded the plan by Trojan to distribute free devices.

“It sounds fantastic and I’m just delighted that there is a company that has the resources and the sex-positivity to do it,” Ms. Cavanah said.

At the annual BlogHer conference that began Aug. 2, Trojan Vibrations gave out 4,000 devices, meaning that the brand is on pace to give away more than 14,000 of the products in August, with a total retail value of $540,000. Mr. Weiss, of Trojan, said the brand gave out a few hundred of the devices from trucks around New York last summer, and wanted to have more impact this year.

“People were clamoring for the vibrators, and we thought that by giving out more vibrators, it would have more buzz, so to speak,” Mr. Weiss said.
182 2012-08-07 Daphne Merkin (“Is Depression Inherited?,” Sunday Review, July 29) has it right: a secure, nurturing childhood may help forestall and even prevent depression in a genetically vulnerable child.

It is also possible for the mother’s treatment to have an acute effect on her offspring. Several recent studies closely monitoring depressed mothers and their children show that a successful remission of a mother’s depression during treatment with either medication or psychotherapy can have an immediate, positive effect of reducing symptoms in her troubled child.

While there are many excellent treatments, it is difficult to predict which one will work for a given individual. The National Institute of Mental Health recently began a multisite study of biomarkers to predict early response and remission from depression based on the patient’s individual characteristics.

With new information on personalized treatment and better access to mental health care, suffering may be reduced in depressed parents and their children.

Dr. Weissman is a professor of epidemiology and psychiatry at Columbia; Dr. McGrath is a professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia; and Dr. Parsey is a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stony Brook. They are principal investigators of the biomarker study.
183 2012-08-07 Next: a letter to “a blackberry abatement specialist” from a stingy, sanctimonious crank named Audrey Griffin, who wants her yard cleared of prickly blackberry bushes in time for the school’s fund-raising party. Audrey would much rather give orders to this landscaper than pay him. “Blessings, and help yourself to some chard,” she writes in closing.

“I don’t need chard,” the landscaper later replies, threatening Audrey with lien proceedings.

The above is only an introductory sampling of how Maria Semple has put together this divinely funny, many-faceted novel. Before she wrote books, Ms. Semple was a television writer (for shows including “Arrested Development” and “Mad About You”), and that turns out to be a very good thing.

Her first novel, “This One Is Mine,” was written in standard narrative style, but “Where’d You Go, Bernadette” leaves convention behind. Instead, it plays to Ms. Semple’s strengths as someone who can practice ventriloquism in many voices, skip over the mundane and utterly refute the notion that mixed-media fiction is bloggy, slack or lazy.

The tightly constructed “Where’d You Go, Bernadette” is written in many formats — e-mails, letters, F.B.I. documents, correspondence with a psychiatrist and even an emergency-room bill for a run-in between Bernadette and Audrey. Yet these pieces are strung together so wittily that Ms. Semple’s storytelling is always front and center, in sharp focus. You could stop and pay attention to how apt each new format is, how rarely she repeats herself and how imaginatively she unveils every bit of information. But you would have to stop laughing first.

Everyone in this sparkling novel is wily, smart or even smarter. The brainiest character is arguably Elgin, who works at Microsoft and leads the design team for what, the book says, is Bill Gates’s favorite project. Elgin is famed for not wearing shoes, for giving the fourth-most-watched TED talk and for generally being Microsoft’s version of a rock star.

His athletic habits are pure Seattle: for a morning bicycle workout he puts on a heart-rate monitor, a shoulder brace of his own invention and what Bee calls “goony fluorescent racing pants.” Then he swigs “green juice of his own making” and chooses a recumbent bike to counteract the way the hills affect his wrists. Bernadette doesn’t hate him, but she sure hates that kind of Seattle chic.

Bernadette’s loathing for Seattle does not stop her from delivering endless, razor-sharp wisecracks about the place. And part of why she resents her new home (“there are two hairstyles here: short gray hair and long gray hair”) is because she is out of her element. She fled Los Angeles for reasons the book does not immediately explain. She strikes Seattle residents as a Microsoft-moneyed snob who really ought to switch to decaf.

Bernadette, for her part, calls Galer Street parents “gnats,” and treats them accordingly. When she deigns to show up at the school, Audrey complains that “she’s like Franklin Delano Roosevelt” because she stays in her car, so that the other parents see her only from the waist up. Bernadette and Audrey treat each other so spitefully that it’s a damn shame when they stop fighting.

In a sublime plot thread that begins with Audrey and the blackberries and spirals toward comedy heaven (watch what happens to Kyle, Audrey’s doted-on little delinquent son), Bernadette does major, unintentional damage to the Galer Street community. As a consequence — and for the second time in her secretive life — she has to disappear.

“Where’d You Go, Bernadette” signals that fact with its punchy, TV-style title. Then it travels to one of the most surreal places on earth so that the Branch family can, at long last, resolve the real troubles that underlie the book’s humor.

There’s much more merriment to Bernadette’s getting lost than to if, when and how she will be found. But Ms. Semple adores her heroine too much to treat her lightly. So this book eventually acknowledges how miserable Bernadette has been. But it makes her a great, endearing presence, whether she’s happy or sad, here or gone.
184 2012-08-07 A simple urine test before a woman reaches  menopause  may predict her risk of bone fracture, researchers report.Several indicators of bone deterioration are known to be associated with fracture, but only women over age 65 and older men are routin...
185 2012-08-07 ORBACH--Emily Olexy, on July 28, 2012 at 101 years. Cherished grandmother of Tony and Chris and their wives Martha and Nicole. Great-grandmother of Sarah Kate and Peter. Loving mother of the late Jerry. Services Sunday, August 12, 2pm at "The Rive...
186 2012-08-07 4:45 p.m. | Updated  Adding background and details, response from  Google . The rift between  Apple  and Google just got a little wider. On Monday, Apple released a test version of its coming iOS 6 operating system, which powers iPads and iPhones,...
187 2012-08-07 At 7 on Monday morning, a priest in black robes approached a portal on Second Avenue that dropped down into an underground cavern.Accompanied by about 10 men in safety vests and hard hats, the priest donned similar gear and stepped into a steel me...
188 2012-08-08 When the women's 10-kilometer open-water swim is held on Thursday there will be no temperature-controlled pool water, lanes or starting blocks....
189 2012-08-08 Multi Commodity Exchange sued the economist Ajay Shah claiming defamation, but the Mr. Shah says the case is just a legal means to silence a critic....
190 2012-08-08 The computer maker has aggressively spent on deal-making, paying billions of dollars for businesses like E.D.S., Palm, Compaq and, more recently, Autonomy, but few acquisitions have panned out....
191 2012-08-08 After Adam Scott bogeyed the final four holes at last month's British Open, allowing Ernie Els to win the title, Els consoled Scott....
192 2012-08-08 The mobile wallet just became more hip with the news that Starbucks has teamed up with Square, the mobile payments start-up. Competitors, analysts and others weighed in on the news of the deal....
193 2012-08-08 Jeffrey B. Kindler, who retired as Pfizer's chairman and chief executive at the end of 2011, has joined Lux Capital as a venture partner, the firm announced on Wednesday....
194 2012-08-08 Michael Wilson writes on crimes in the city.
195 2012-08-08 Apple freezes over-the-phone password changes, tech designers and developers struggle to get paid and Microsoft conceptualizes the connected home....
196 2012-08-08 Type 2 diabetes, a condition widely thought of as a disease of the overweight and sedentary, also occurs in people who aren't overweight. And it may be deadlier in these normal-weight people, a new study shows....
197 2012-08-08 August 8, 2012 - What the Starbucks partnership with Square will mean for cash.
198 2012-08-08 Apple temporarily disabled the ability for customers to reset their Apple ID passwords by calling customer service after a hacker broke into a journalist’s account over the weekend....
199 2012-08-08 What the Starbucks partnership with Square will mean for cash. | Ultrarich in France consider exodus over tax proposal. | Charging companies with fraud, but sparing individuals.
200 2012-08-08 Use your own Windows keyboard shortcuts to open programs without the mouse....
201 2012-08-08 How can you tell if a big bank really wants to lend money to small businesses? Should credit card balances count?...
202 2012-08-08 To wipe away our history, would be to forget our own mothers and fathers, the daughter of Sikh immigrants, born and raised in California writes in an op-ed....
203 2012-08-08 The Seattle Sounders, in Wednesday U.S. Open Cup final at Sporting Kansas City, will attempt to become the first team to win four consecutive U.S. Open Cup titles....
204 2012-08-08 The Massachusetts-based battery manufacturer, once a supplier to the Swedish automaker's E.V. program, announced a partnership with a Chinese automaker....
205 2012-08-08 Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, the nation’s most endangered Senate Democrat, will face Representative Todd Akin in the November election, the Republican candidate she all but picked for herself who narrowly defeated two challengers in the state’s primary on Tuesday.

Mr. Akin brushed back John Brunner, a businessman, and Sarah Steelman, a former state treasurer who had gotten the nod from Sarah Palin. Mr. Akin, who has long served in Missouri politics, has played the underdog role before. In 2000, when he first ran for a House seat, he was far from favored to win his Republican primary. But he was victorious and went on to win the general election that year.

Mr. Akin, who has a master of divinity degree, played to religious conservatives during his campaign.

But he was perhaps most helped by Ms. McCaskill and her Democratic supporters, who spent close to $2 million on ads that painted Mr. Akin as too conservative for the state, in a tacit effort to bolster his candidacy among primary voters.

The effort to pick off Ms. McCaskill will no doubt be one of the most expensive Senate races in the nation and has already seen an infusion of spending by outside advocacy groups. According to Democratic strategists, anti-McCaskill spending has already reached $15.2 million. Republicans see her defeat as crucial to their chances of retaking that chamber.
206 2012-08-08 The prominence given to Africa also reflects Brazil’s shift from aid recipient to provider. Big development challenges persist in Brazil, including woeful public schools and a sharp economic slowdown this year. But Brazil is a major agricultural exporter that recently surpassed Britain as the world’s sixth-largest economy, and it now boasts more embassies in Africa than Britain does — a notable change from when Brazil relied on foreign aid in the 1960s, largely from the United States, to alleviate hunger in the country’s impoverished northeast.

Africa now accounts for about 55 percent of the disbursements by the Brazilian Cooperation Agency, which oversees aid projects abroad, according to Marco Farani, the agency’s director. Altogether, including educational exchanges and an expanding loan portfolio, Brazil’s foreign aid exceeds $1 billion, he said. Big portions of Brazilian aid also go to countries in Latin America, and there is a smaller focus on East Timor, the former Portuguese colony in Southeast Asia.

“We still have a smaller foreign aid profile than other some countries, but we’re learning how to do cooperation,” Mr. Farani said.

Brazil still trails other nations, notably China and the United States, which have far more expansive aid programs and trade in Africa. Elsewhere in Latin America, Venezuela and Cuba have offered different ways of enhancing African ties. Venezuela organized a 2009 summit meeting of African and South American leaders, in which President Hugo Chávez tightened an alliance with Libya’s leader at the time, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

During the cold war, Cuban troops supported Communist governments in Africa. In Angola, this mission included the seemingly paradoxical task of protecting a Chevron oil complex at the same time the United States was supporting an insurgency against Angola’s leaders. More recently, Cuba has sent thousands of doctors to Africa.

But while the Cuban and Venezuelan efforts have largely prioritized developing-world solidarity with some African nations, Brazil’s growing foothold in Africa is more complex, involving ambitions to forge Brazil into a diplomatic and economic powerhouse.

After a surge of openings of diplomatic missions over the past decade, Brazil now has 36 embassies across Africa, and hopes to open its 37th in Malawi this year. Brazil is already using this presence to bolster its actions on the world stage, sending jets to fly delegations from Sierra Leone, Liberia and Cape Verde to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, which was held here in June.

Other projects are intended to lure Africans to study in Brazil. A new university began offering classes last year for students from Portuguese-speaking countries, including Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and São Tomé and Principe.

Since Brazil does not need to import large amounts of oil or food, its plans in Africa differ somewhat from other countries seeking greater influence there. Outreach projects tie largely into efforts to increase opportunities for Brazilian companies, which sometimes work with Brazil’s government in offering aid.

Some of Brazil’s biggest inroads, predictably, are in Portuguese-speaking countries like Angola, where the Brazilian construction company Odebrecht ranks among the largest employers, and Mozambique, where the mining giant Vale has begun a $6 billion coal expansion project.

But Brazilian companies are also scouring other parts of Africa for opportunities, putting down stakes in Guinea and Nigeria. A leading Brazilian investment bank, BTG Pactual, started a $1 billion fund in May focused on investing in Africa. New links are also emerging, including Brazilian farming ventures in Sudan; a flight from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, to São Paulo; and a fiber optic cable connecting northeast Brazil to West Africa.

Some of Brazil’s forays in Africa have come with complications, including criticism of warming ties with leaders connected to human rights abuses, like Equatorial Guinea’s president, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. A freedom-of-information measure has enabled journalists to delve into African arms deals by Brazilian companies, including the sale of cluster bombs to Zimbabwe.

African students studying in Brazil have filed numerous complaints describing slurs and aggression, complicating the myth of “racial democracy” that once prevailed here, in which scholars contended that Brazil had largely escaped the discrimination common in other societies.

In one episode here in Rio, Eleutério Nhantumbo, a Mozambican police officer with a scholarship to study public security at a Brazilian university, said he was stopped by police officers on one occasion. They ordered him to raise his shirt upon exiting a store on the suspicion that he had stolen something.

When he questioned why they had singled him out, he said the officers responded with a racial slur and warned him of addressing them without respect; hearing his accent in Portuguese, they queried him about his origins. “The police asked, ‘Where’s Mozambique?’ ” said Mr. Nhantumbo, 33. “They didn’t know that there existed a country with this name.”

Brazil, closely linked for centuries to Africa through shipping routes and the slave trade, is thought to have imported 10 times as many slaves as the United States did before slavery was abolished here in 1888. For a stretch in the 19th century, Brazil was the seat of the Portuguese empire, making the capital then, Rio de Janeiro, a nerve center for trade with Africa.

Those ties withered until civilian leaders sought to establish relations with newly independent governments in Africa in the early 1960s. That process cooled after Brazil’s military rulers seized power in a 1964 coup supported by the United States.

Then economic necessity and a quest to build autonomy from the United States laid the foundations in the 1970s for today’s diplomatic buildup in Africa. Seeking to offset spending on oil imports, including cargoes from Nigeria, military rulers set about opening new markets in Africa for Brazilian companies. They found some success, notably in newly independent Angola.

Brazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, built on those inroads in trips to Africa from 2003 to 2010, referring to the “historic debt” Brazil had to Africa in its formation as nation.
207 2012-08-08 A new mosque that has faced arson, vandalism and a court battle has passed inspection and will be allowed to open by Friday, in time for the final week of Ramadan, its leaders said Tuesday. The State Fire Marshal’s Office said it had issued a temporary certificate of occupancy for 30 days to the Islamic Center of Murfreesboro. For two years, the center’s expansion has faced legal challenges and threats of violence. Vandals painted “not welcome” on construction signs at the mosque and set fire to construction equipment. A Texas man was indicted in June on charges that he left messages threatening to detonate a bomb at the center on Sept. 11. In May, a county judge ruled that the construction plans had not received sufficient comment from the public and that an occupancy permit could not be granted. Federal prosecutors filed a discrimination lawsuit, and a federal judge ruled in the mosque’s favor last month.
208 2012-08-08 MOSCOW — Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican who has been a leading proponent of joint efforts by the United States and Russia to reduce their arsenals of nuclear and chemical weapons, urged on Tuesday that the two countries team up to eliminate the stockpile of chemical weapons in Syria.

The Syrian government last month threatened to deploy chemical weapons in response to any foreign attack, in what appeared to be the first official confirmation that it had such weapons.

Mr. Lugar’s proposal comes at a delicate time, with Russia steadfastly resisting entreaties by the United States and other countries to authorize more forceful intervention in Syria, which has been locked in a conflict that is now a civil war for 17 months.

In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Lugar said his idea had been initially rebuffed by Russian officials, who noted that Syria had never joined an agreement to eliminate such arms, the Chemical Weapons Convention, which was signed by 188 countries.

“The initial response,” Mr. Lugar said, “was that Syria was not a party to the Chemical Weapons Convention — which is true — and we, that is, the United States and Russia, do not own these weapons, and that’s true. But it’s also true that it’s not really clear in the course of events who is going to own them, if anybody; who will be responsible; whether any party really will be a part of the convention.”

Yet, Mr. Lugar added, most countries see the weapons in Syria “as influencing very adversely the potential for peace and stability in the Middle East.”
209 2012-08-08 The Securities and Exchange Commission announced on Tuesday that it had reached a $45 million settlement with Pfizer to resolve charges that subsidiaries of Pfizer and Wyeth, which it acquired in 2009, bribed overseas doctors and other health care workers to increase sales of their drugs.

At the same time, the Justice Department announced that another subsidiary, Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation, had agreed to pay a $15 million penalty to settle similar charges.

The allegations, which date to 2001 and in the case of Wyeth are said to have continued after Pfizer’s acquisition of the company, involve violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids paying bribes to government officials. In many countries, doctors are government employees.

“Pfizer subsidiaries in several countries had bribery so entwined in their sales culture that they offered points and bonus programs to improperly reward foreign officials who proved to be their best customers,” Kara Brockmeyer, chief of the unit of the S.E.C. enforcement division that enforces the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, said in a news release. “These charges illustrate the pitfalls that exist for companies that fail to appropriately monitor potential risks in their global operations.”

In a statement, Pfizer said that it had reported the activity to the federal government in 2004 after discovering improper payments by employees of a recently acquired affiliate in Croatia. It then conducted a multiyear investigation and briefed federal officials along the way. Pfizer said that it learned of the improper payments involving Wyeth soon after closing on the acquisition, and reported that activity as well.

“The actions which led to this resolution were disappointing, but the openness and speed with which Pfizer voluntarily disclosed and addressed them reflects our true culture and the real value we place on integrity and meeting commitments,” Amy Schulman, executive vice president and general counsel for Pfizer, said in a news release. “We expect every colleague across Pfizer to adhere to the highest standards of conduct, and we will continue to hold ourselves and our colleagues accountable for maintaining these standards.”

The activities covered in the settlement reach across the globe, from Bulgaria to Italy to Russia and China. In China, according to the S.E.C. complaint, Pfizer China created “point programs” that could be redeemed for gifts like cellphones and tea sets based on how many prescriptions the physicians wrote. In the case of Wyeth, subsidiaries in China, Indonesia and Pakistan made cash payments and other gifts to government doctors who recommended their nutritional products, and then used fake invoices to hide the improper payments.
210 2012-08-08 Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former Disney studio chief who is now chief executive of DreamWorks Animation, made the announcement at a news conference Tuesday, promising to create a “cultural landmark” along the Huangpu River.

“This doesn’t exist anywhere else in the world,” he said.

DreamWorks Animation formed Oriental DreamWorks last February with China Media Capital, the Shanghai Media Group and Shanghai Alliance, three entities backed by the city government.

Li Ruigang, the former head of the Shanghai Media Group and China Media Capital, has been named chief of the new studio, which will soon co-produce “Kung Fu Panda 3” in Shanghai. It will also produce animated films solely for China.

The Dream Center was an outgrowth of that animation deal, Mr. Katzenberg said Tuesday, and came after discussions with the Shanghai partners and the local government in the city’s Xuhui district.

The entertainment zone will house three Broadway-style theaters, the world’s largest Imax theater and a series of office buildings and smaller performance halls. The Shanghai government is seeking to recruit some of the world’s leading architects to work on the buildings.

At the news conference, the partners said they had not yet worked out financing. But in an interview later, Mr. Katzenberg said he had no reason for concern because the government and Chinese partners were enthusiastic and eager to build.

That was clear at the reception. Shanghai’s mayor, Han Zheng, attended the news conference, along with Yu Zhengsheng, the Communist Party chief for Shanghai and a member of the country’s ruling Politburo.

The project is in many ways another example of Shanghai’s ambitions. The city attracted 80 million visitors when it was host of the World Expo in 2010, and has spent billions of dollars on infrastructure, especially transit.

In an interview, Mr. Katzenberg said the DreamWorks projects would strengthen the studio’s position in China, giving it better access to a market in which Hollywood has had limited success because of government limits on foreign films. China took in $2 billion in box-office ticket sales last year, and recently shot past Japan to become the world’s second-largest market in box-office receipts, behind the United States.

Asked whether the joint venture in China could lead to intellectual property theft, Mr. Katzenberg said “not really.”

He added: “In terms of what we do, anyone and everyone can have a paintbrush. But that doesn’t mean they can be a painter. That requires great storytelling.”

A broader strategy shift is under way at DreamWorks Animation. Mr. Katzenberg tried to sell the company in recent years but could not find a buyer willing to pay what he thought it was worth, in part because of global financial turmoil. He told analysts in a conference call on July 31 that he was now “committed to growth and diversification.”

In that call, Mr. Katzenberg repeated his intention to start a DreamWorks Animation television channel and highlighted a recent deal to open an indoor theme park as part of a retail mall in the New Jersey Meadowlands, near New York City. Mr. Katzenberg also spent $155 million in late July to acquire Classic Media, whose holdings include certain rights to characters like Casper the Friendly Ghost and the Lone Ranger.

For the most recent quarter, DreamWorks Animation reported a slim profit of $12.8 million, a 63 percent plunge from a year earlier; revenue dropped 25 percent, to $162.8 million. Those numbers included higher-than-normal marketing expenses of $175 million for “Madagascar: Europe’s Most Wanted” and the strong overseas performance a year ago of “Kung Fu Panda 2.”

It is exactly those kinds of whipsawing financial results that Mr. Katzenberg is trying to steady by diversifying in general, and in his Chinese efforts in particular. Under his studio’s model, every movie release must be a huge hit, a risky proposition, especially now that the “Shrek” franchise is inactive.
211 2012-08-08 BEIJING — A Tibetan woman, Dolkar Kyi, 26, killed herself through self-immolation at a monastery on Tuesday afternoon in a Tibetan area of China, according to Free Tibet, an advocacy group based in London.

The group said it had received two photographs of the body, which lay at Tso Monastery in the area that Tibetans call Kanlho Prefecture and that the Chinese call Gannan Prefecture, in Gansu Province.

Nearly 50 Tibetans have set fire to themselves since 2009 in what appear to be protests against Chinese rule.

On Monday, a Tibetan monk from Kirti Monastery self-immolated in the town of Ngaba, according to reports by Free Tibet and Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government.

The condition of the monk was not known on Tuesday, but he appeared to be alive and badly burned when he was taken away by security forces after the self-immolation, the reports said.

Radio Free Asia gave his name as Lobsang Trinlay, while Free Tibet identified him as Lobsang Tsultrim, 21.
212 2012-08-08 Over objections from consumer groups and New York officials, a federal judge on Tuesday approved a $4.8 million settlement between the Justice Department and  Morgan Stanley  over accusations of price fixing in the electricity market.Yet even as h...
213 2012-08-08 LOS ANGELES - With the decision by Warner Brothers to delay its 3-D version of "The Great Gatsby," directed by Baz Luhrmann, until a still unnamed date next summer, a somewhat hazy Hollywood awards season gets a little clarity - but not much."Gats...
214 2012-08-08 Analysts said that Mr. Ashraf’s dismissal would be unlikely to topple Mr. Zardari’s government, which has a majority in Parliament, but that it would set off new political turmoil that might result in earlier elections, which are to take place by June 2013.

The court wants the government to write to the Swiss authorities and prompt them to reopen a long-dormant investigation into Mr. Zardari’s finances dating to the 1990s. Officials from the governing party maintain that Mr. Zardari, as head of state, has immunity from prosecution.

At the heart of the argument is a bitter three-year-old rivalry between Mr. Zardari and Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. There is little sign that either side will back down.

The notice issued Wednesday orders Mr. Ashraf, a former minister for water and power, to explain why he should not be charged with contempt — a formality that usually precedes formal charges.

The justices refused a government request to delay the proceedings until September.

Senior lawyers said the court was likely to put Mr. Ashraf on trial soon and to reach a decision far more rapidly than it did with Mr. Gilani, whose fate hung in the balance for several months.

Mr. Raja, the lawyer, said that the government could try to stall but that “short of writing to the Swiss officials, as has been directed by the court, such tactics will just play out in a week or two.”

Government supporters accuse the court of engaging in a partisan witch hunt driven by the rivalry between Chief Justice Chaudhry and Mr. Zardari. Such criticism has found greater resonance in recent weeks, even among formerly staunch supporters of the court’s authority.

In an interview with the BBC broadcast on Tuesday, Aitzaz Ahsan, one of the country’s most prominent lawyers, said the court had become “too powerful.”

“It has at times overstepped its limits,” he said, adding later that “the activism of the court is one-sided and is not evenhanded.”

Shamila N. Chaudhary of the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm, said that while Mr. Ashraf’s ouster would not bring down the government, “it would still leave Zardari vulnerable to other Supreme Court actions such as the creation of an ‘independent’ commission that could write the Swiss letter itself.”
215 2012-08-08 Three Broadway productions saw expected upticks at the box office last week given that their runs were coming to an end, two newcomers showed mixed results and big-ticket shows that have been dominant for months mostly held steady, according to th...
216 2012-08-09 August 9, 2012 - Ahead of its public offering, a look at what makes Manchester United a financial powerhouse.
217 2012-08-09 Over a decade of war in Vietnam, the United States sprayed about 20 million gallons of Agent Orange, a defoliant linked to cancers, birth defects and other diseases.
218 2012-08-09 He is, however, persuasively North Carolinian (it is Mr. Galifianakis’s home state), though not altogether convincingly Republican. But in a movie like this, with all its pseudo-naughty provocations about body parts and functions, and its occasional forays into misogyny and ethnic and regional caricature, the real taboo is partisanship.

Though some literal-minded conservatives might object to the implied parallel between the Motch brothers and the real-life Koch brothers, it should be noted that the movie’s scheming plutocrats represent a plague-on-both-your houses gag. They are happy to buy politicians from either party, as long as their mercenary interests are protected. And while it is possible to interpret “The Campaign” as a brief for campaign finance reform, the script is also careful to note, late in the game, that Citizens United is the law of the land.

My point is that the movie, which is sometimes very funny in the usual zany, pop-surrealist sketch-comedy manner, is studiously inoffensive and thoroughly chicken-hearted. Punching a baby — a bit featured in the trailers — is shockingly funny but not exactly brave. The film’s timidity places it squarely in a tradition of Hollywood anti-political comedy that has flourished at least since Mr. Smith went to Washington.

American politics is inherently divisive: it is one of the ways we express our resentment, even our hatred, of one another without resorting to violence. Movies, in contrast, are where we can unite in our hatred of politics and allow ourselves to dwell in a fantasy republic where the common good is served, corruption is vanquished, and reason prevails.

“The Campaign” does what it can to deliver on this fantasy, or at least to distract the audience from painful truths that might shatter it altogether. It’s like a sober, centrist, irrelevant op-ed column, but with bad words and belly laughs.

A few easy satirical targets are squarely hit in all the scattershot riffing. The movie effectively lampoons the emptiness of patriotic symbolism and the way politicians manufacture patently false images of authenticity for themselves, and it also tweaks the news media’s breathless coverage of manufactured scandal.

Cam’s platform consists of a smiling family and three words — “America, Jesus, Freedom” — and he seems secure in the assumption that his cheerful vacuity and aggressiveness will win him a fifth term. Actual television personalities like Wolf Blitzer, Chris Matthews and Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough show up to chuckle about the craziness of the Brady-Huggins race, which includes a combination attack ad-sex tape.

We’ve never seen anything like that before, one of the talking heads remarks. But we have seen, and will see, much worse before the votes are counted in November. The message of “The Campaign” is that, in the end, everything will be all right because, as long as we can have a good time laughing at a movie like this one, everything must be all right to begin with. I guess I approve of that message. I wish I could believe it.

“The Campaign” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). You kiss a baby with that mouth?
219 2012-08-09 Most crime is down in Ireland, but the deep recession is causing one type of crime to soar: burglary. And it's affecting everyone....
220 2012-08-09 The price values the 134-year-old English soccer team at about $2.3 billion. At $14 a share, it is below the range of $16 to $20 it outlined last week....
221 2012-08-09 Such a regional defense system is meant to send a pointed message to Tehran, but it will require partner nations to put aside historic rivalries, share information and coordinate their arsenals....
222 2012-08-09 Plaintiffs say that wolves will get the upper hand and maul hunting dogs unless the rules are tightened....
223 2012-08-09 A global food price index jumped 6 percent in July, with the drought afflicting grain crops in the United States the leading factor....
224 2012-08-09 JPMorgan Chase has talked about the losses from derivatives bets made by its London office, which cost the company $6 billion. But executives have been loath to put dollar amounts on the positions....
225 2012-08-09 American and Vietnamese crews will toil at a former Army air base at Da Nang, one of the most toxic of 28 dioxin "hot spots" in Vietnam....
226 2012-08-09 Banks make unusually large gains on mortgages. | Ahead of its public offering, a look at what makes Manchester United a financial powerhouse.
227 2012-08-09 As social sites have matured, so have reporters’ understanding of how best to use them....
228 2012-08-09 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
229 2012-08-09 Seldom do plug-and-play devices live up to the name, but the xPrintServer, a $100 device that links iPhones and iPads wirelessly to a printer, may be the exception. Maybe....
230 2012-08-09 Multi Commodity Exchange sues economist Ajay Shah claiming defamation....
231 2012-08-09 House rules do not require that members disclose gifts from one relative to another. But Bill Allison, the editorial director at the Sunlight Foundation, a nonpartisan organization that promotes government transparency, said that even assuming the Tierneys believed the company’s earnings were legal, the payments could plausibly be viewed as earned income, which the House ethics manual defines as “compensation derived from employment or personal efforts,” rather than as gifts.

“It sounds like she was regularly drawing money from this account in exchange for services she rendered to the company, so that sounds like income,” Mr. Allison said. “It doesn’t sound exactly like a birthday gift.”

Stephen Spaulding, who is staff counsel for Common Cause, another watchdog group, said that the payments fell into a “gray area,” and “there are certainly grounds for the ethics committee to look at whether that was income.”

Mr. Spaulding and Mr. Allison said Mr. Tierney’s 2006 vote against the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, which clarified prohibitions on Internet gambling and made prosecution easier, makes the possibility that he and his wife earned income from the Eremians’ business particularly troubling. (He later voted for a bill to which the act was attached, which passed.)

Mr. Tierney’s office said he had sought advice from the House ethics committee in 2010, after the Eremian brothers were accused, although it did not provide details on what he had asked. “Congressman Tierney has always followed financial disclosure rules; has consulted with the ethics committee, most recently in 2010; and has not been asked to amend his filing,” said Kathryn Prael, a spokeswoman for Mr. Tierney.

Mr. Tierney was questioned about the money from Robert Eremian at a news conference in early July, and maintained that it was not income. “It was a gift to my wife, so it’s not income. It’s not reportable on that,” he said. “And she clearly did wonderful things for his family, for his children, whatever.”

The issue came to the fore at the end of June, after Daniel Eremian was sentenced to three years in prison and lashed out at Mr. Tierney outside the courtroom. “He knew everything that was going on in my family for years,” Mr. Eremian said, according to The Boston Herald. At the July news conference, Mr. Tierney denied that allegation and said his brother-in-law had probably been angry at him for not going to his aid.

Republicans have seized on suspicions about Mr. Tierney, and news of his relatives’ crimes, with efforts like the Web site HowCouldTierneyNotKnow.com, which is hosted by the National Republican Congressional Committee. In June, Mr. Tierney’s opponent, Richard Tisei, a former minority leader in the Massachusetts Senate, called on Mr. and Mrs. Tierney to forfeit the money she had received from her brother.

Peter Ubertaccio, a political science professor at Stonehill College in Easton, Mass., said the persistence of questions around the gambling outfit could sidetrack Mr. Tierney and erode voter support as he faces Mr. Tisei, whose moderate politics and high name recognition have made him a credible opponent.

It is rare, Mr. Ubertaccio said, for Massachusetts voters to unseat a Democrat in Congress during a presidential election, since the state typically supports a Democrat for the presidency. But “here, it’s not a political issue at all, but the allegation of personal corruption,” he said. “I think people will really take a second look.”
232 2012-08-09 José María Olazábal, Europe’s captain for the Ryder Cup, said Padraig Harrington would have to show some extraordinary play to avoid missing the event for the first time since 1995. He is well outside the top 10 players who automatically qualify for the team in three weeks.
233 2012-08-09 A new whistle-blower lawsuit has been filed against Infosys, the giant Indian outsourcing company, by a man who says he was harassed into quitting after he reported visa fraud by managers there. Satya Dev Tripuraneni, an American who worked for Infosys for five years in California, says the company billed fraudulently for workers brought from India on short-term visitor visas and also evaded taxes. After he reported his concerns, he was threatened and demoted, Mr. Tripuraneni claims in the lawsuit filed in federal court for the Northern District of California. Danielle D’Angelo, an Infosys spokeswoman, said the company had started an internal investigation of the claims. A trial in the case of Jay Palmer, another whistle-blower who reported suspected visa fraud at Infosys, begins Aug. 20 in Montgomery, Ala.
234 2012-08-09 The Census Bureau wants to make broad changes to its surveys to keep pace with changing notions of race. The changes would drop use of the term “Negro,” leaving a choice of “black” or “African-American.” It would count Hispanics as separate from blacks and whites. It would also add write-in categories that would allow Middle Easterners and Arabs to specifically identify themselves. The census director, Robert M. Groves, says research during the 2010 census found that making these changes increased response rates and improved accuracy. The government currently defines Latino as an ethnicity. Census forms now instruct people to indicate if they have Hispanic origin and then check a race box such as “white” or “black.”
235 2012-08-09 “When it comes to what you do in your bedroom, or where you go to church, or where you want to put a tattoo, we just couldn’t care less,” Mr. Hoagland said at a meeting last month of young Republicans in Charlotte.

And some social conservatives say they are deliberately playing down their own views on issues as a tactical move to attract more young voters to the Republican Party.

Polls show that Americans under 30 are the least likely to identify as Republican, and those in the millennial generation support by a wide margin. But in an effort to win votes by capitalizing on disenchantment with the and its slow recovery, Republicans are placing a renewed emphasis on fiscal issues, with hopes of energizing their young people — a group that had one of the lowest turnout levels in the history of presidential elections in 2008 and did not turn out in strong numbers in this year’s primaries.

“I would prefer that Mitt Romney leave social issues sort of alone, because I do disagree with him on those things,” said Ms. Kotzambasis, whose group, like many others, operates mostly independent of any national party oversight. “He keeps saying that the first things he’ll tackle are health care and the economy, and I hope he tackles the economy. I’m graduating in a couple years, and it’s pretty dismal where I am.”

What has become the norm, some experts say, is for young Republicans to take a cafeteria-style approach to issues that are important to them. And some established leaders see that as a boon to their party.

“My theory is that, just as young people don’t have to buy a whole album on iTunes and can pick and choose just the songs they like, they can customize their political views — and they do,” said Kristen Soltis, a Republican pollster who is the communications adviser to Crossroads Generation, a new pro-Romney “ ” aimed at young voters.

In her outreach to social moderates, Amelia Lutz, vice chairwoman of the Missouri College Republicans, calls her particular group “a welcoming, big-tent party.”

A poll this year by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that the percentage of Republicans ages 18 through 29 who favor same-sex marriage has grown to 37 percent, up from 28 percent eight years ago.

“The students I know who are conservative are far less so on social issues than our parents,” Ms. Kotzambasis, 19, said. “People are more accepting of different lifestyles.”

Younger Republicans are also the most likely members of the party to say that “more people of different races marrying each other” and “more women in the work force” have been changes for the better, according to a separate Pew study conducted last year.

Republican leaders also hope to tap into what they see as a growing libertarian streak among young conservatives — the same energy that Representative of rode with some success through the early primaries, with a strong emphasis on minimalist government and individual freedoms.

Those ideas may complement long-established ideals about deficit reduction and cutting the size of government, issues on which young Republicans do not differ much from older generations of Republicans, experts said.

Asked what she thought would be the most effective message to reach young Republicans, Ms. Soltis echoed Ms. Kotzambasis: “Jobs, jobs, jobs could be it.”

All of their characteristics taken together, young Republicans present a nuanced mix of political ideals that may well change the face of the party over time, experts say. “There has to be room for them or the Republican Party won’t exist, at the pace this generation is evolving,” said John Della Volpe, polling director at the Harvard Institute of Politics.

With Mr. Obama currently leading Mr. Romney among Americans under 30 by 21 percentage points, according to the most recent Gallup poll, some Republican advisers said they would consider it a success if the margin shrinks by 10 points. “In some of these swing states, that could really be decisive,” Ms. Soltis said.

North Carolina is one such state. In McLeansville, 20-year-old Eddie Souther has founded a new Republican youth group, the Collegiate Informed Voters of Guilford County, that is reaching out to students in Spanish and Arabic as well as English, hoping to cast the widest possible net for Mr. Romney.

“We have a pretty significant Hispanic and Muslim population here,” Mr. Souther said, “and I’m just thinking about the future of the .”

Some young conservatives, Mr. Souther among them, continue to oppose abortion and same-sex marriage but say they are playing down their personal views because they have made the calculation that such issues will not be a factor in this year’s races.

Mr. Souther’s month-old group is going to be pushing on the economy and jobs, he said.

“I’m definitely socially conservative,” he said. “I’m not for gay marriage or abortion. But those are not issues that we feel are going to be moved or dramatically changed in any way.”

Other young Republicans spoke with passion about how their values had evolved over the past several years, especially while in college.

Ms. Kotzambasis, at the University of Arizona, said she was “accepting pro-life arguments” in the seventh and eighth grades. “But when I went through and became a young woman,” she said, “I realized I didn’t know what I would do in that situation, so I couldn’t judge someone else’s choices.”

At least two members of her College Republican group, one of whom is a lifelong friend, recently revealed that they are gay, she said. And the open discussions that ensued greatly influenced the entire club, and solidified Ms. Kotzambasis’s own view.

“I think people have become much more at ease and comfortable about it,” she said. “Honestly, there’s about zero judgment from the people in our club, and I think that reflects the direction my generation wants to take the party in.”
236 2012-08-09 The United States has been negotiating billions of dollars in weapons deals with individual Persian Gulf countries to protect against a potential attack from Iran. Major American arms sales or installations for missile defense that have been proposed or completed since 2007:
237 2012-08-09 The is trumpeting a decrease of about one-third in the number of citizens detained under its increasingly unpopular program. The news comes as a relief, since New Yorkers, nearly all of whom were innocent of any crime, were stopped nearly 700,000 times last year.

But the problems with this program were never just the number of stops. The real test is whether police officers can both reduce the number of stops and obey the law, which requires them to have reasonable, articulable grounds for suspicion before detaining people on the streets.

This point was underscored earlier this summer, when Judge of Federal District Court granted class action status to a lawsuit accusing the Police Department of using race as the basis for stopping and frisking New Yorkers. The judge rebuked the city for its “deeply troubling apathy toward New Yorkers’ most fundamental constitutional rights,” and found “overwhelming evidence” that the program had led to thousands of baseless, unlawful stops. Despite the police claims that the stops keep criminals and weapons off the streets, only about 6 percent of stops lead to arrests, and last year, only one in every 879 stops turned up a gun.

Asked to explain the recent drop in stops, police officers told The Times that many sergeants conducting roll calls had stopped emphasizing the need to stop and question people on street. According to the department, it conducted 203,500 stops in January, February and March of this year — a record number — but stopped only 133,934 in April, May and June. Even so, it will most likely be several weeks before a data analysis by the lawyers in the class action suit, Floyd v. City of New York, provides a detailed sense of whether the trend toward illegal and discriminatory stops has indeed subsided.

News accounts continue to illustrate how the program has alienated communities of color. This week, for example, Wendy Ruderman reported in The Times about a little-discussed aspect of the program — the humiliating toll that it has taken on women, who say that male police officers have singled them out without cause for invasive searches and harassment.

In one case, a woman said she was sitting on the front steps of her home in the on a recent summer night when police officers rifled through her handbag, out a tampon, a sanitary napkin and finally pills, about which they questioned her. Another young woman from Heights said police officers who claimed to be searching for a rapist interrupted her and two female friends, demanded identification and then patted her down. “It was uncalled-for,” she said. “It made no sense. How are you going to stop three females when you are supposedly looking for a male rapist?”
238 2012-08-09 That would include deploying radars to increase the range of early warning coverage across the Persian Gulf, as well as introducing command, control and communications systems that could exchange that information with missile interceptors whose triggers are held by individual countries.

For that purpose, the Pentagon late last year announced a contract for the sale of two advanced missile defense radars to the United Arab Emirates. And early this year, officials disclosed that a similar high-resolution, X-band missile defense radar would be located in Qatar, as well.

The objective in the gulf is shared by a more widely publicized missile defense shield being installed in Europe: to deter any Iranian attack and, if required, to blunt the effect of missiles launched against allied territory and American forces.

But the similarities end there. The administration’s European initiatives have been embraced by NATO and are being put into place after formal negotiations with countries that will host early warning radars, ground-based interceptors and Navy warships equipped to track ballistic missiles and shoot them down.

In contrast, the Persian Gulf effort is mostly behind the scenes — and on a country-by-country basis — with billions of dollars in arms sales negotiated bilaterally between the United States and nations in the region. Thus, the next challenge is coaxing gulf nations to put aside their rivalries and share early warning radar data, and then integrate the capabilities of their unilateral missile interceptor systems to extend defenses over the entire region.

While officials would not provide a full list of the weapons sales, a study of the public record — Defense Department contract announcements, foreign arms transfer notifications required by law and studies conducted for Congress — offered a detailed picture of the American initiatives.

If the planned European missile defense system is growing from a full engineering blueprint, the approach in the Persian Gulf is more like assembling a jigsaw puzzle. And with the latest arms sales, important pieces are coming together that, when connected, will bring toward fruition a project that American officials have pursued for years.

Three weeks ago the Pentagon announced the newest addition to Persian Gulf missile defense systems, informing Congress of a plan to sell Kuwait $4.2 billion in weaponry, including 60 Patriot Advanced Capability missiles, 20 launching platforms and 4 radars. This will be in addition to Kuwait’s arsenal of 350 Patriot missiles bought between 2007 and 2010.

The United Arab Emirates acquired more than $12 billion in missile defense systems in the past four years, documents show. In December, the Pentagon announced a contract to provide the Emirates with two advanced missile defense launchers for a system called the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, valued at about $2 billion, including radars and command systems. An accompanying contract to supply an arsenal of interceptor missiles for the system was valued at another $2 billion, according to Pentagon documents.

Saudi Arabia also has bought a significant arsenal of Patriot systems, the latest being $1.7 billion in upgrades last year.

The United States’ own military forces provide a core capability for ballistic missile defenses in the Persian Gulf, in particular the American Navy vessels with advanced tracking radars and interceptor missiles. According to Navy officials, these Aegis missile defense systems, carried aboard both cruisers and destroyers, are in the region on continuous deployments.

And the United States has deployed a number of land-based missile defense systems to defend specific American military facilities located around the gulf.

Even so, the challenges to creating an integrated regional missile defense system are both technological and political.

On the technical side, no missile defense system can promise 100 percent effectiveness. And the task is made more difficult by the fact that the capability emerging in the Persian Gulf is more ad hoc than the carefully designed architecture for Europe. Also, Iran is increasing both the type and number of missiles it is fielding.

Political challenges stem from historic rivalries, prompting the Persian Gulf partner nations to enhance their security through bilateral relationships with the United States. And while all six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council share concerns over Iran, all have resisted multilateral security initiatives.
239 2012-08-09 Mr. McGinley said that Mr. Grimm filed the amended report in June because the House Ethics Committee notified him five days earlier that the Cyprus trip had been omitted on his initial filing. (The committee knew about that trip because Mr. Grimm had obtained its preapproval.) The lawyer declined, however, to provide a copy of the notice.

Mr. Grimm has come under scrutiny in recent months after The New York Times reported that three contributors to his 2010 race said that Mr. Grimm or his chief fund-raiser informed donors that his campaign would find ways to accept illegal donations, including those that exceeded contribution limits, were given in cash or came from foreigners without green cards.

The United States attorney’s office in Brooklyn has since interviewed some of the donors, and several people briefed on the matter have said the office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are examining Mr. Grimm’s 2010 campaign.

F.B.I. agents assigned to a squad that investigates public corruption have interviewed several people who worked on the 2010 campaign and questioned them about whether they were paid in cash, according to one of the people interviewed. This person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person is still involved in politics, said several other campaign workers said that they had also been questioned by federal investigators.

This summer, prosecutors in the case began subpoenaing people who had worked on the 2010 campaign to testify before a grand jury.

Mr. Grimm, who is seeking a second term in November, has strenuously denied collecting illegal donations for his 2010 campaign. Spokesmen for the United States attorney’s office and the F.B.I. declined to comment.

In July 2011, about a month before Mr. Grimm’s trip, his office issued a news release saying he would co-sponsor a bill to help give Americans who own property in what the release called “Turkish-Occupied Cyprus” recourse to seek restitution for the “illegal use and occupation of their property.”

Cyprus is divided between a Greek Cypriot south and a Turkish-occupied north, which is not recognized internationally.

The news release noted that Mr. Grimm planned to travel to Cyprus in August 2011 with representatives of the Greek-Cypriot community from his district.

But Mr. Grimm’s office subsequently made little effort to publicize the trip.

Mr. Papanicolaou accompanied him on the trip, as did Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis, a Staten Island Republican who issued a news release about it. They met with the president of the Republic of Cyprus, the foreign minister, the head of the Greek Orthodox Church of Cyprus, and other dignitaries.

According to an itinerary that was belatedly filed with the House of Representatives on July 23, the first full day of the weeklong trip featured lunch with Mr. Papanicolau at his home.

While the same prosecutor, Assistant United States Attorney Anthony Capozzolo, is handling both the investigation of Mr. Grimm and the case against Mr. Papanicolaou, it is not clear whether the investigation into Mr. Grimm has examined his ties to Mr. Papanicolaou.

Mr. Papanicolaou was arrested on a criminal complaint June 5, and court papers in his case indicate that he has been discussing a plea deal with prosecutors, though they provide no details.

According to an F.B.I. affidavit, Mr. Papanicolaou came to the attention of authorities as part of a pay-to-play scheme that has engulfed the city’s Department of Housing Preservation and Development since Wendell B. Walters, a former assistant commissioner, pleaded guilty to bribery and corruption charges.

The government claimed that Mr. Papanicolaou persuaded a travel agency to rebate $12,390 in charges that the assistant commissioner put on his American Express card for a Greek honeymoon in September 2007, so that Mr. Papanicolaou could pick up the tab.
240 2012-08-09 That means that instead of beginning their season last weekend with the rest of the Premier League teams, they will open this weekend against tiny Peterhead, a club nicknamed the Blue Toon that plays in Balmor, a quaint stadium with a capacity of about 4,000.

More important, Rangers’ drop also ends for at least three years any regular occurrences of the Rangers-Celtic clash, which previously took place at least four times a season. Losing those games, to borrow a local phrase, is not a wee issue for anyone.

Attempting to explain to outsiders the meaning of the Old Firm, as the Rangers-Celtic rivalry is called, is difficult. There are other heated rivalries in Scotland, including in Edinburgh, where the Hearts-Hibernian clashes are epic. But nothing compares to Glaswegian enmity.

The schism runs deep: Celtic fans are, historically, Irish Catholic and in favor of Scottish independence and a united Ireland separate from Britain. Rangers fans are historically Protestant and wear their Union Jacks with pride. Rangers were founded in 1872 but only signed their first former Celtic player in 1989.

“When I was growing up, I went to a Catholic school, and there wasn’t one Rangers fan in the entire school,” said Neil McGarvey, 43, who is involved in the operation of Kerrydale Street, a popular Celtic fan Web site. “It’s much more mixed now — my boy goes to a Catholic school, and there are maybe 5 percent Rangers fans now.”

Not surprisingly, emotions over the rivalry often boil over. Murders and countless assaults have been blamed on Old Firm tensions over the years, and the Scottish police have worked vigilantly in recent years after studies showed an increase in domestic violence on days when the teams played.

Businesses, too, are loath to favor one side. As has been the case for decades, the teams share a primary sponsor, the beer brewer Tennent’s. As many have noted, for a company to sponsor one team or the other would be fiscal suicide because half the consumers would probably boycott.

“It’s a rivalry that’s on so many levels,” Grant Russell, a reporter for Scottish Television, said in an interview. “It just all kind of comes together in this one game.”

“And now,” he added, “it seems it has gone away.”

Bocanegra said that Rangers players knew there had been questions about the club’s finances but had no idea of the situation’s gravity until they began reading about it earlier this year. The former owner, Craig Whyte, never spoke to the players until he went into the locker room one day in February, Bocanegra added, at which point Whyte announced that the team was going into administration — the British equivalent of bankruptcy — because of mounting debt and millions of pounds in unpaid taxes. Then, he left.

The players were shocked. Bocanegra is one of three Americans on the team, along with Maurice Edu and Alejandro Bedoya, and they have enjoyed being part of one of soccer’s greatest battles. When asked, Bocanegra often tells his American friends about what happened after one of his first Old Firm games, which Rangers won, 4-2.

After the match, Bocanegra and some friends went to a pub for dinner. Bocanegra thought he had slipped into the restaurant without being identified as a Rangers player, but when the waiter brought his meat pie to the table, Bocanegra looked down and laughed. The chef had carved into the top: “4-2 YES!”

Derek Rae, a commentator for ESPN, had a similar tale about calling his first Old Firm match on radio in 1987. He, too, went to a pub after the game and was having a drink when a fan approached.

“Your commentary was not bad, son, but who do you support?” the fan said. Rae, who is from Aberdeen, rightly pleaded that he was neutral. The fan snorted. “I’m not having that,” he said. “Are you a Celtic neutral or a Rangers neutral?”

Rangers fans point to that sort of rabid (and worldwide) interest in the teams as a reason the punishment they received was shortsighted. Yes, if a team goes broke, as Rangers did, starting from the bottom is the traditional penalty.

But Rangers are not merely another team. Even with the Old Firm in place, the Scottish Premier League cannot match the quality and popularity of England’s Premier League or other top European groupings, a fact reflected in the huge financial gap between Rangers and Celtic and the other 10 teams in the league.

Either Rangers or Celtic has won every league title since the 1985-86 season, and their value to the other teams was immeasurable. At the most basic level, Rangers or Celtic fans were generally responsible for any large crowds at Scottish league games, filling up the stadiums of the other teams whenever they played an away game.

The Old Firm was the marquee television attraction, too, and one of the most scrutinized aspects of Rangers newco — as the new team has been labeled in Britain — was what effect their drop to a lower division would have on the value of Scottish soccer’s TV rights deal.

Originally, there had been talk the Scottish league’s rights might fetch about £80 million (or about $125 million) over five seasons; when Rangers were dropped, the rights price fell, too, said Neil Doncaster, the league’s chief executive.

Worst-case predictions had been for a deal of less than £60 million over the same span, and ultimately an agreement was salvaged for a price worth less than £10 million below the original number, but only after broadcasters were granted rights to show Rangers’ bottom-division games in addition to regular Scottish League games.

Even with that deal in place, there are still concerns over ratings without Rangers in the top league, and whether advertising and marketing dollars will diminish.

“There will be less money coming into the game over all as a result of all the ordeals,” Doncaster told reporters.

Then there is the expected lack of competition. Without Old Firm matches, “Celtic will win the league by Christmas,” Chris Graham, an operator of the Web site The Rangers Standard and a sort of unofficial spokesman for Rangers supporters, said through gritted teeth. “It will have gone from a two-horse race to a one-horse race, and who wants to watch one horse run?”

The decision to banish Rangers to the bottom is a fascinating debate from a business perspective, particularly when one considers the bailouts that major sports leagues in the United States have orchestrated.

Major League Baseball essentially turned the Montreal Expos into a league-run team in 2002 before the franchise moved to Washington. In basketball, the N.B.A. purchased the New Orleans Hornets in 2010 after George Shinn, the owner, had financial troubles. And in hockey, the N.H.L. has owned or overseen operations of several teams, most recently the Phoenix Coyotes, which it has owned since 2009. In each of those situations, the league did what was necessary to keep a team afloat and preserve the integrity of its overall product. Did Rangers’ former ownership swindle their fans and opponents? Of course. But does that mean the whole of Scottish soccer should be thrown into flux?

“A lot of clubs live right on the line financially,” said Russell, the Scottish TV reporter. “Clubs are really going to feel the pinch. We could lose a few clubs, possibly.”

To that end, an official with Kilmarnock, a smaller Scottish Premier League team, has already estimated the team will lose £600,000 (about $940,000) without Rangers in the top division, and there has been speculation that the result will be a wholesale change in Scottish soccer.

Doomsday prognosticators say the league will crumble and look more like a semipro operation by the time Rangers make their way back to the top flight, which will take no fewer than three seasons and could take more as several Rangers players have seized on contract loopholes to leave for new teams. More conservative observers believe a reorganization may be necessary, with one or two teams possibly going out of business.

It May Never Be the Same

Whatever happens, it is a jarring opening to what is supposed to be the best time of year in this part of the world. The Olympics will be over soon, replaced by the beginning of the soccer season, a time of joy and wonder and dreams in most of Britain.

But not here. Rangers fans will traffic in the unfamiliar this season, hosting tiny clubs at their Ibrox stadium (capacity 51,082) one weekend and fighting over seats at a tiny away stadium the next. Celtic, just down the road, will turn their home in Parkhead into the site of a season-long coronation and revel in a rival’s downfall.

The clubs could meet in one of several in-season tournaments or decide to stage an exhibition, but it will not be the same. It cannot be. In truth, said the Rangers fan Graham, the rivalry may never be the same. And perhaps neither will this country’s most popular game.
241 2012-08-09 Pick your poison: “Double Cross” thrives on excess background information and minutiae (one of Mr. Macintyre’s main figures, Lily Sergeyev, had kidney stones), while Mr. Talty favors glib storytelling with a Hollywood gloss. (“ ‘Turn around slowly, Ivan,’ the voice said, ‘and don’t make any sudden moves.’ ”)

Mr. Talty, whose earlier book topics include Tibet and Capt. Henry Morgan, even makes a case for why the double-agent business worked like a movie studio, whereas Mr. Macintyre picks up the cricket slang of John Masterman, the Oxford don who ran the Twenty Committee. (It was named for its Roman numeral counterpart, XX — as in double-cross.) Mr. Masterman’s “Double Cross System in the War of 1939 to 1945” and Anthony Cave Brown’s “Bodyguard of Lies” are important sources for both authors, although much other information has been declassified since those books were published in the 1970s.

“Double Cross” and “Agent Garbo” begin very differently, then wind up overlapping a great deal. Mr. Macintyre starts off by emphasizing the importance of Johnny Jebsen, a close friend to Dusan Popov, a k a Tricycle. (Both figures are in both books.) Mr. Macintyre pays much attention to establishing Jebsen’s playboy habits, his acquaintance with P. G. Wodehouse and the recruiting of Popov to spy for German intelligence long before these matters affect the course of his book. Mr. Talty, who has less detail about Jebsen, does not introduce him until he is kidnapped by Germans, who realize he is spying for the British. At that point Jebsen serves a dramatic purpose: “The missing man knew everything there was to know about Garbo.”

Both books agree about Garbo’s great importance to the war effort. And neither delves too deeply into the mind-set that made him such a skilled fantasist about “notional” agents, invasion plans and armies that did not exist: in other words, such a gifted liar. But Garbo invented an entire espionage network and issued frequent bulletins that the Germans intercepted. He earned the movie-star moniker by being such a good actor. He was such a successful double agent that he was awarded high honors by both Germany and Britain. Most remarkably, when caught red-handed, he could affect high dudgeon and angrily convince accusers that he was an honest man. Garbo not only had the honor of revealing the D-Day Normandy invasion to Germany but also of arguing persuasively that Normandy was just a distraction.

Those feats of espionage provide the finales for both books. But Mr. Macintyre also writes, for instance, about how Sergeyev, who blamed the British for the loss of her beloved dog, Babs, could have sabotaged the war effort by the way she used dashes in secret communiqués. The threat is important, but it was never realized, just as Jebsen appears never to have informed his German captors about Allied activities. (Mr. Macintyre’s other main players are Roman Czerniawski, a k a Brutus, and Elvira de la Fuente Chaudoir, a k a Bronx.)

Ultimately the books are complementary, not competitive. Perhaps Mr. Talty’s is a useful prelude to Mr. Macintrye’s, the designated Bigfoot of the two.

And Mr. Talty supplies — via his reporting on David Strangeways, a deception expert who barely figures in Mr. Macintyre’s scheme of things, and Tomás Harris, Garbo’s MI5 case officer — the better explanation of why such elaborate and peculiar British scheming played into a German weakness. “From Harris’s point of view the Germans were culturally and institutionally handicapped when it came to deception,” he writes, “because they’d closed their minds to the irrational.”
242 2012-08-09 KEREM SHALOM, Israel — The members of the tiny kibbutz here on Israel’s troubled border with Egypt and the Gaza Strip were just finishing a light supper in their dining hall on Sunday evening when text messages warned them to take cover.

They heard three loud blasts, the familiar sound of mortars fired from Gaza, as they scurried to the sealed pub under the dining hall or to the safe rooms in their modest homes. There they stayed until near midnight — Andy Breakell recalled watching Usain Bolt win the gold medal in the 100-meter dash — many with no idea what was unfolding around them.

Only next morning, Mr. Breakell said, did he learn that masked gunmen had killed 16 soldiers just across the border in Egypt, blown up a stolen truck at the border fence, and driven a stolen armored vehicle loaded with explosives about a mile into Israel. It was half a mile from the kibbutz entrance when Israeli airstrikes destroyed the vehicle.

“As it carried on and on and on, we realized it was more serious than usual,” Mr. Breakell, 58, said in a meeting with journalists here on Wednesday afternoon. “If the troop carrier had turned left into our street and broken into the kibbutz ... ” he added, trailing off.

Mr. Breakell, an immigrant from Manchester, England, who joined this kibbutz in 2006, has the unenviable task of serving on its recruitment committee. A military post near Kerem Shalom is where the Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit was kidnapped; the tunnels he was smuggled through pop up in the fields kibbutzniks tend nearby. Mortar shells fired from Gaza regularly send residents running to safe rooms. Now, this.
243 2012-08-09 Solo said she and some of the team’s coaches essentially settled on a strategy before the shootout began. After a victory over Brazil in a shootout in the quarterfinal, Solo and her position coach, Paul Rogers, discussed data they had found that showed a majority of players shot toward the left-hand side of the goal on penalty kicks.

Instead of having Solo try to guess which side each shooter was going to aim for — by quickly analyzing her history, body language or run-up — Solo and the coaches decided she would simply move to her right on every shot, figuring chances were good she would be correct and make a save several times.

In theory, it seemed like a good idea. But upon reflection, Solo said, it did not feel comfortable to her. Her movements in the shootout were tentative, as if she did not fully believe in the plan. She did make one save, but that was not enough to make up for her teammates’ misses.

On Japan’s final two kicks, the shooters went left, so Solo had moved in the correct direction, but she did so with such hesitancy that she was not able to make either save.

“Looking back, I remember going to the first one not with a lot of confidence because I had a feeling she was going to go to my left,” Solo said. “As soon as I leaned right, she went left. I always wanted to do that, but when I actually did it, it didn’t feel right.”

The United States coach, Pia Sundhage, was also self-critical after the defeat. Sundhage said this week that in the past she had delegated responsibility for planning free-kick plays — including penalties — to Rogers. Last summer, that meant she deferred to Rogers when it came to selecting the order of the American shooters, and she also stayed mostly quiet when it came to the coaches’ last words of instruction before the shootout.

“I did not want to change what had worked in the match against Brazil,” she said. “But this was a different situation, and I needed to be different.”

Against Brazil, Sundhage said, the United States had rallied to tie the score and reach the shootout. The Americans had the momentum and their confidence was high; little needed to be said to get them in the right mental place for the penalties.

But in the final, it was the Americans who lost leads on the way to the shootout. They then went out and missed three of four penalties. “I needed to get involved and tell them that they needed to be calm and trust themselves,” Sundhage said. “I did not do that, but this time I know.”

Sundhage added that she did her best to have the players simulate shootout situations, but that it was difficult — if not impossible — to replicate the intensity of the moment. When the United States plays scrimmages, it often asks the other team to have a shootout afterward. At practice, Sundhage will sometimes organize formal shootouts or have the players do it individually at the end of regimented training.

Brandi Chastain, who converted perhaps the most famous penalty in American history, against China in the 1999 World Cup final (and followed it with a memorable celebration), recalled how she and her teammates would often play penalty-kick baseball after practices.

Each player got three outs per inning, with goals being hits, saves being outs and shots off the post that rebounded back into play counting as neither. “They were foul balls,” said Chastain. “They weren’t outs because we figured there was a chance someone could score on a rebound.”

When the time came for Chastain to take her big kick, she used her less-dominant left foot because she had been working on it in the weeks before the match. She had never taken a left-footed penalty kick in competition before, she said this week, but it made sense to her in the moment. “I had practiced that way so much,” she said, “I was more confident that way in the game.”

Such are the quirks of the penalty shootout. Suggestions for potential alternatives — including continuing to play the match but reducing the number of players on each side — are often bandied about, but for now at least, the shootout is all there is.

So when teams as evenly matched as the United States and Japan meet in a showpiece final — particularly a repeat one like this — everyone must be prepared for the possibility of penalties.

“Mentally, your mind can start to play tricks on you,” said Carli Lloyd, who made her penalty against Brazil but missed one against Japan. “But you have to be strong. You have to know you have done it before and so you absolutely can do it again.”
244 2012-08-09 “There’s nothing there,” said Mallory Duncan, senior vice president and general counsel at the National Retail Federation, a trade association that was not involved in the lawsuit. He called the cash and fee reductions a “drop in the bucket” compared with the amount banks had overcharged merchants to process credit cards.

The lawsuit was filed in 2005 on behalf of some seven million merchants who claimed that MasterCard and Visa had colluded, separately, with banks to eliminate competition and increase the price of their credit card transactions. Since then, the interchange fees, or so-called swipe fees, small merchants pay card networks have risen as the networks have plied cardholders with rewards, said David Robertson, publisher of the Nilson Report, which tracks the card industry.

In 2011, Visa and MasterCard accounted for 68 percent of credit card spending at merchants, according to the report, and the two companies’ grip on the market is likely to make retailers think twice before applying a surcharge. “Customers are very temperamental now,” said Nancy Alinovi, who owns two consignment shops called Adore Designer Resale Boutique in the Raleigh, N.C., area. “It’s much harder to get them to spend their money.”

Ms. Alinovi said she would never apply a surcharge. “However,” she added, “I love that we have the ability to do that, the freedom to do that.”

That freedom, however, is limited. Under the agreement, a merchant that added a surcharge to Visa or MasterCard transactions would also be required to add the surcharge to American Express transactions, if the merchant took American Express. (Half of those who accept Visa and MasterCard also take American Express, said David Darst, an analyst who covers the industry for Guggenheim Securities.)

But American Express has its own rule that says merchants must treat every form of electronic payment equally — and that means that to add the surcharge to American Express transactions, the merchant would have to add it to every other card it accepted, including debit cards. But both Visa and MasterCard prohibit surcharges on debit cards — Catch-22! — which effectively means merchants cannot add a surcharge to any transaction.

In reality, few merchants would impose a debit surcharge even if Visa and MasterCard permitted it. “Debit is the product that merchants want to encourage customers to use, so if you have a rule that says if you’re going to surcharge American Express you’re going to have to surcharge debit, you might as well have a rule that says no surcharge,” said Gary B. Friedman, a lawyer in New York who represents merchants in a separate class-action lawsuit against American Express.

Noah J. Hanft, MasterCard’s general counsel, said the company was not trying to use the rules set by other networks as a shield against competition. “We can’t fix the problems that other brands have with their rules,” he said. “We can only fix issues with our rules, but we have to ensure that there’s a competitive marketplace. We’re not going to enter into an agreement that’s not fair to our cardholders.” Visa officials declined to speak on the record.

The settlement’s impact will also be limited by state law. Ten states that together constitute 40 percent of the United States population have banned surcharges on credit card purchases, “and I don’t think anything would restrict the banks and networks from lobbying other states to do the same,” said Henry M. Polmer, a Washington lawyer who specializes in electronic payment networks.

One element of the settlement that intrigued Mr. Charles, the confectioner, was a provision requiring Visa and MasterCard to negotiate transaction rates with merchants that banded together as a group. “It would theoretically allow merchants to negotiate a lower cost of interchange, which right now is out of control and growing,” he said. “But how do you negotiate when there’s only one game in town?”

The settlement’s detractors echoed that sentiment. “Merchants are allowed under the law to form buying groups right now, even without a settlement,” said Douglas Kantor, a Washington lawyer who represents NACS, the convenience store trade association, which was a party to the lawsuit but rejected the settlement. “The problem has always been, Visa and MasterCard don’t bargain with those groups in a fair way.”

If the settlement received court approval, Visa and MasterCard could obtain unusual freedom from future lawsuits over transaction pricing. Not only would existing merchants lose their right to sue, but claims from merchants created in the future would be barred from court as well. The card companies would be protected not just from claims made in this suit, but also from claims that could have been made but were not. “The release is remarkably overbroad,” Mr. Kantor said. “There are all kinds of rules that aren’t touched by the settlement at all, and it releases them to abuse merchants with those rules in perpetuity.”

But a lawyer for other plaintiffs, H. Laddie Montague Jr., said the provision was a reasonable protection for the credit card companies. “They don’t want to settle today,” he said, “and have a merchant tomorrow who accepts their credit cards refile and start the whole thing over.”

Albert A. Foer, a longtime observer of the case and founder of the American Antitrust Institute, based in Washington, said the settlement was too complicated to say yet whether merchants, and ultimately consumers, would benefit. The judge overseeing the case, Mr. Foer said, “is going to have to seek greater clarity before he or anybody else can say with any certainty what all the practical implications of the settlement will be.”
245 2012-08-09 WASHINGTON (AP) — American businesses got slightly more work out of their employees this spring after reducing hiring. The gain, a 1.6 percent annualized increase in productivity in April through June, suggests employers may need to hire if demand picks up.

The Labor Department said Wednesday that the increase in productivity in the second quarter followed a 0.5 percent decline in the first quarter, less than first estimated.

Productivity is the amount of output per hour worked. Rising productivity can increase corporate profits, but can slow job creation because it means companies are getting more work from current employees and do not need to hire more. Still, there are limits to how much companies can get from their workers.

Productivity is rising at a relatively weak pace. It is up 1.1 percent compared with a year earlier. Since 1947, productivity gains have averaged 2.2 percent a year. So companies may need to hire if they see only modest gains in productivity and more demand. “In the near term, is unlikely that firms will be able to increase output much further without proportional increases in hiring,” said Erik Johnson, an economist at IHS Global Insight. “Maxing out the efficiency of their existing work forces would typically encourage firms to hire more workers,” he added, though he cautioned that the economy “is on shaky footing right now.”

Labor costs rose 1.7 percent, far below the 5.6 percent increase in the first quarter. But labor costs rose only 0.8 percent in the last year, indicating that employees are not getting big raises and that inflation is likely to remain tame.

One reason productivity improved is that hiring slowed in the second quarter. Employers added an average of 75,000 jobs a month in April through June, down from an average of 226,000 a month in the first quarter.
246 2012-08-09 Analysts said that Mr. Ashraf’s dismissal would be unlikely to topple Mr. Zardari’s government, which has a majority in Parliament, but that it would set off new political turmoil that might result in earlier elections, which are to take place by June 2013.

The court wants the government to write to the Swiss authorities and prompt them to reopen a long-dormant investigation into Mr. Zardari’s finances dating to the 1990s. Officials from the governing party maintain that Mr. Zardari, as head of state, has immunity from prosecution.

At the heart of the argument is a bitter three-year-old rivalry between Mr. Zardari and Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. There is little sign that either side will back down.

The notice issued Wednesday orders Mr. Ashraf, a former minister for water and power, to explain why he should not be charged with contempt — a formality that usually precedes formal charges.

The justices refused a government request to delay the proceedings until September.

Senior lawyers said the court was likely to put Mr. Ashraf on trial soon and to reach a decision far more rapidly than it did with Mr. Gilani, whose fate hung in the balance for several months.

Mr. Raja, the lawyer, said that the government could try to stall but that “short of writing to the Swiss officials, as has been directed by the court, such tactics will just play out in a week or two.”

Government supporters accuse the court of engaging in a partisan witch hunt driven by the rivalry between Chief Justice Chaudhry and Mr. Zardari. Such criticism has found greater resonance in recent weeks, even among formerly staunch supporters of the court’s authority.

In an interview with the BBC broadcast on Tuesday, Aitzaz Ahsan, one of the country’s most prominent lawyers, said the court had become “too powerful.”

“It has at times overstepped its limits,” he said, adding later that “the activism of the court is one-sided and is not evenhanded.”

Shamila N. Chaudhary of the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm, said that while Mr. Ashraf’s ouster would not bring down the government, “it would still leave Zardari vulnerable to other Supreme Court actions such as the creation of an ‘independent’ commission that could write the Swiss letter itself.”
247 2012-08-09 Kristina Kim, left, lost to Chanatip Sonkham in the women's taekwondo preliminaries on Wednesday. Sonkham went on to win a bronze medal....
248 2012-08-09 FAIRCHILD--Emily F.,of Glen Cove, NY on July 31st, 2012 age 88. Loving mother of John F. Rand, the late Leslie and Laura Rand. Dear sister of Laura F. Dunn. Proud grandmother of Davis, Emily and Kate Rand. Fond aunt of Linda D. Garnett. Service at...
249 2012-08-09 Interest rates on mortgages and refinancing are at record lows, giving borrowers plenty to celebrate. But the bigger winners are the banks making the loans.Banks are making unusually large gains on mortgages because they are taking profits far hig...
250 2012-08-09 MUMBAI, India - It is the business version of "he said, she said."One of India's fastest-growing financial exchanges is suing a prominent economist claiming defamation. But Ajay Shah, the economist, says the Multi Commodity Exchange of India is ju...
251 2012-08-10 The Islamic Center of Murfreesboro opened for its first mosque prayers on Friday after attacks and a court battle....
252 2012-08-10 Mr. Zakaria's recent column on gun control had passages that closely tracked those in a New Yorker piece by the historian Jill Lepore....
253 2012-08-10 David Rakoff, the brilliant writer and actor and artist and friend to many people here at the magazine, died last night at the age of 47 from a long bout with cancer...
254 2012-08-10 Determined to avoid perceptions that Mr. Romney's support is slipping, a senior adviser said there was no legitimate explanation for the swing in recent polls....
255 2012-08-10 Off the Charts: More Openings, Fewer Firings

The number of unfilled jobs in the American economy has risen to the highest level since 2008. At the same time, the ratio of unemployed workers to openings has fallen to about half the peak level, although it remains significantly higher than it was before the recession began at the end of 2007. Turnover in jobs remains below historical levels, reflecting a reluctance of employees to risk what they have. The proportion of dismissals among those leaving their jobs has fallen, but remains above prerecession levels.
256 2012-08-10 A look at the United States and Argentina men’s basketball teams as they enter their semifinal at the Olympic tournament....
257 2012-08-10 A look at Spain and Russia’s men’s basketball teams as they enter their semifinal match at the Olympic tournament....
258 2012-08-10 An interview with Starbucks’s Howard Schultz and tech entrepreneur Jack Dorsey. | Why the price of dermatology drugs has spiked. | James B. Stewart parses the tax returns of the top 400 earners.
259 2012-08-10 Not technically, but it's still unusually bad. That especially stings because rarely is a sharp recession followed by a lackluster recovery....
260 2012-08-10 Airlines, hotels and rental cars have offered variable prices for years. Those prices, however, are almost always based on capacity and timing, or are given to groups — seniors get one discount, frequent users another.

Now grocers like Safeway and Kroger are going one step further, each offering differing methods to determine individualized prices. Hoping to improve razor-thin profit margins, they are creating specific offers and prices, based on shoppers’ behaviors, that could encourage them to spend more: a bigger box of Tide and bologna if the retailer’s data suggests a shopper has a large family, for example (and expensive bologna if the data indicates the shopper is not greatly price-conscious).

The pricing model is expected to extend to other grocery chains — and over time could displace standardized price tags. Even though the use of personal shopping data might raise privacy concerns among some consumers, retailers are counting on most people accepting the trade-off if it means they get a better price for a product they want.

“If our consumer information is right, personalization is really a consumer desire right now, not so much a consumer fear,” said Michael R. Minasi, president for marketing at Safeway.

There are skeptics. Joseph Turow, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the , said shoppers should be cautious. The pricing at grocery stores and other retailers is not transparent enough to give consumers any real power or choice, he said, and “there’s a sense of fairness that’s derailed here.”

In a 2005 survey conducted by Professor Turow, most adult respondents did not know that retailers could legally charge different prices, and more than 90 percent said they would dislike it if their supermarket charged different prices to different people within the same hour.

Retailers say the groundwork has been laid with individualized coupons, which are resoundingly popular. Sites like have also made consumers comfortable with custom offers and varying pricing, they say.

Kroger, the -based grocer, has long been sending its frequent customers specialized coupons with the help of dunnhumbyUSA, a consumer research firm. A Kroger spokesman, Keith Dailey, said that 70 percent of customers who received the coupon mailings redeemed at least one of the offers, a high response rate. Kroger has had 34 consecutive quarters of same-store sales growth, which both it and analysts attribute in large part to the coupon offers.

Kroger calibrates prices by studying when someone redeems an offer for, say, ketchup at $1.70 but not for ketchup at $1.80.

“It comes down to understanding elasticity at a household level,” said Stuart Aitken, the chief executive of dunnhumbyUSA. The companies also track how frequently someone buys a product, at what times of the year and when the last purchase was made.

Kroger has been sending customers mailings with “multiple price points,” Mr. Aitken said. Now it is testing personalized prices via “other devices, or other ways of reaching out to the consumer,” he said, which could include things like smartphone apps or loyalty card swipes.

Catalina, a marketing company that tracks billions of purchases each year, is using a shopper’s location in store aisles to refine offers. Last year, Stop & Shop’s Ahold division introduced a mobile app, now run by Catalina, that allows shoppers to scan products. When they do, Catalina identifies them through their frequent shopper number or phone number, and knows where in the store they are. Special e-coupons are created on the spot.

“If someone is in the baby aisle and they just purchased diapers,” said Todd Morris, an executive vice president at Catalina, “we might present to them at that point a baby formula or baby food that might be based on the age of their baby and what food the baby might be ready for.”

Catalina studied purchase data from 54 million Americans over a year, and found that a significant portion of the sales of individual products came from a small percentage of shoppers.

At Safeway, the digital customization program allows the company to respond to current events. After a recent power failure in , for example, it sent city residents coupons for freezer items to encourage restocking once power was back.

Ms. Sanford and Ms. Vanek, both of whom live in the Denver area, were among bloggers that Safeway asked to test its pricing program in return for a $50 gift card. Like any good shopper, Ms. Vanek is already starting to game the system: she noticed that she received cheaper prices on ground when she alternated between and Dunkin’ Donuts brands rather than buying just Starbucks.

She said it would not bother her if another customer were offered a lower price. “No two people are ever going to buy the same things, so I don’t think it matters, at least not to me,” she said.

So far, consumers say, the programs seem to reflect their buying habits. Ms. Sanford, who says she tries to buy health-conscious items, says offers for Kashi cereal and bagged lettuce reflect her preferences.

Ainy Kazmi, 35, a mother of four in Ellicott City, Md., said Safeway’s program encouraged her to change what she bought. She tried to use the offers for a large bottle of cranberry juice, rather than the smaller bottle of cranberry apple juice she usually buys, and a box of Cocoa Puffs that was not on her shopping list — but she said the discounts for some reason were not loaded onto her card at checkout. She bought the items anyway.

She has used the program again since then, getting discounts on bananas and other products, and says she is happier with it since Safeway worked out the kinks. “It’s a little bit creepy, but I figure they’re checking everything anyway,” she said. “I might as well get a good deal out of it.”
261 2012-08-10 Bob Dylan will play the first concert at the recently restored theater in Port Chester, N.Y....
262 2012-08-10 The Top 400: Lower Taxes and More Capital Gains and Dividends

The 400 taxpayers with the highest adjusted gross income earned less in 2009, the latest year for which data is available, than in the two previous years. Many of them had tax rates that were lower than 15 percent because much of their income was from capital gains and dividends, which are taxed at lower rates than ordinary income.
263 2012-08-10 The system at the center of the rate-rigging scandal will be overhauled as regulators respond to public anger over the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor....
264 2012-08-10 Ten animated GIFs stitched together by sequencing still photographs taken by Times photographers....
265 2012-08-10 Scientists suggest that trees in upland forests infected with a common fungus are a significant source of methane, a potent greenhouse gas....
266 2012-08-10 In addition to a new “confluence of entrepreneurs and technology,” he added, “the nation’s need for access to space” is acute, now that the space shuttle program has ended.

Private space companies are particularly appealing to Texas in the wake of that program and as NASA faces budget cuts. Although the shuttles were launched from Florida, the program’s mission control was at the Johnson Space Center in Houston.

Gov. Rick Perry has expressed interest in promoting the private space industry in Texas and has met with Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX, many times.

Though the state encourages space firms to come to Texas, it has not, so far, lured them with financial incentives, said Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry. The governor’s office is talking with XCOR about whether the Midland project would be eligible for state money, but the company must prove it would create jobs, she said.

Initiatives like the state’s Enterprise Zone Program, which supports companies that bolster struggling economies, could be useful to space firms because they often settle in economically challenged rural areas, Ms. Nashed said.

Special incentives aside, Texas is attractive to space companies because of its low business taxes, Mr. Massee said. The state’s location also helps. Rockets can be launched faster when they are closer to the equator, said Bob Lancaster, president of the Texas Space Alliance, an advocacy group. SpaceX is considering a site in Cameron County, the state’s southernmost county.

But environmentalists are concerned about the impact of potential space facilities.

The advocacy group Environment Texas is petitioning for SpaceX to abandon its Brownsville plans. The proposed gulf coast site, which comprises about 50 acres, is surrounded on three sides by Boca Chica State Park, home to rare species like the ocelot and the leatherback sea turtle, according to a letter that the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department sent to the Federal Aviation Administration in May in response to questions about the potential environmental impact of the plan.

Gilberto Salinas, the executive vice president of the Brownsville Economic Development Council, countered that SpaceX had a history of complying with environmental regulations and said he believed the company would protect species in the park.

The launchpad, Mr. Salinas said, would use five to eight acres, leaving a “buffer zone” around it.

The facilities would cost SpaceX about $80 million to build, Mr. Salinas said, though SpaceX did not confirm that figure. He estimates that developing the site would inject $50 million in annual salaries into Brownsville’s economy and add $20 million to $30 million per year in related costs.

“It would just totally change the way things are done down here,” he said.

NASA, meanwhile, is itself contributing to the growth of the private space industry. As Congressional budget cutters have taken aim at the agency, granting it $17.77 billion in federal money for fiscal year 2012, a decrease of about 4 percent, the agency is having to “learn to be efficient with less,” said Josh Byerly, a spokesman for the Johnson Center. (He added that NASA was not “limping along” under the cuts.) With the end of the space shuttle program, experts say commercial companies could provide most low-orbit space travel, potentially at lower cost to NASA.

According to the agency, Blue Origin, as of June 30, had received about $17.8 million from NASA to transport space crews into lower orbit. SpaceX had received about $70 million for crew transport and about $751.2 million to develop and restock low-orbit cargo stations. And on Aug. 3, the agency awarded SpaceX $440 million to refine its existing spacecraft to transport NASA astronauts.

Because private companies are focused on profit, they are likely to develop cheaper models for low-orbit travel, Mr. Lancaster said, like reusable rockets.

Texas is not alone in attracting space companies. Experts say competitors include Alabama, California, New Mexico and Virginia.

Florida, home to the NASA Kennedy Space Center and one of Texas’ top competitors, created a state agency, Space Florida, in 2006 to promote space-related business.

Although Texas does not have a space department, staff members from the Office of Economic Development and Tourism work with companies and write letters on their behalf, Ms. Nashed said.

“This is an industry that has a lot of potential to grow in Texas,” she said. “The sky’s the limit.”
267 2012-08-10 Apart from his government service, Mr. Heineman, who once described himself as “a professional problem solver,” had two successful careers: 20 years in law in Chicago, and 30 years in business. He turned toward business in 1954, when he led a group of stockholders in a proxy fight for control of the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway, which had become known in some quarters as the “Misery and Still Limping.”

In a letter to shareholders, Mr. Heineman’s upstart group accused the railroad’s managers of running a “gravy train” for themselves and called for “an end to laxness, extravagance and inefficiency.”

The rebels won, and Mr. Heineman became chief executive of the railroad.

In 1956, he took over a much larger rail system, the Chicago and North Western Railway, which had been notorious for breakdowns and mismanagement. He bought new equipment, made commuter trains run on time and fought the unions, insisting that outdated jobs be eliminated. By 1964, the railroad’s $5.5 million deficit turned into a $23.2 million profit.

Mr. Heineman began acquiring other businesses — steel, clothing, chemicals — to form Northwest Industries, one of the country’s first conglomerates. In 1972, under his direction, the company sold the railroad to its employees, yielding a $200 million tax benefit to Northwest, which Mr. Heineman then used to acquire more companies. He retired from the company in 1985.

“He refused to take stock options,” Mr. Califano said. “He thought anyone heading a corporation should pay their own money and invest in the corporation. This country today would be so much better off if we had even a half-dozen corporate leaders like Ben Heineman. There wasn’t an ounce of greed in him.”

Benjamin Walter Heineman was born on Feb. 10, 1914, in Wausau, Wis. He attended public schools and earned his pilot’s license at 14. He hoped to go to Yale, but in 1930, when Mr. Heineman was 16, his father went bankrupt and committed suicide.

He went to the University of Michigan from 1930 to 1933, and then persuaded the dean of Northwestern University Law School to let him enroll a year early. He graduated in 1936 at 22, editor of the law review and at the top of his class. He worked at law firms in Chicago and then started his own, Swiren & Heineman.

During World War II, he served in Washington as assistant general counsel in the Office of Price Administration and then in North Africa with the State Department as a legal adviser, assistant director of the North African Economic Board and assistant to the ambassador to the Free French government.

In 1951, Governor Stevenson secretly appointed him a special assistant attorney general to help break up a crime ring that was cheating the state of $10 million a year in cigarette taxes. Former members of Al Capone’s gang were thought to have been part of the ring, and the investigation let to many arrests. Mr. Heineman’s son said that there were death threats against the family and that, for a time, he and his sister had to be driven to school by the state police, who kept sawed-off shotguns at hand.

In 1952, Mr. Heineman worked on Mr. Stevenson’s presidential campaign as a speechwriter, collaborating with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. on a speech that denounced the tactics of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who led the hunt for Communists in the federal government. He was chairman of the Illinois Board of Higher Education from 1962 to 1969, and in 1966, when racial strife was at its worst, Mayor Daley appointed him chairman of the Chicago Civil Rights Summit Conference on Fair Housing.

Mr. Heineman served on many boards in the arts, education and charity. In 2006, he and his wife, Natalie, donated their collection of glass sculptures, valued at about $10 million, to the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, N.Y.

Besides his son, Mr. Heineman is survived by a daughter, Martha Heineman Pieper, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His wife died in 2010, after almost 75 years of marriage.

As the head of a railroad, Mr. Heineman kept his customers in mind. He told Life magazine, in 1964, “I don’t think people want glamour — they want trains to work and work on time. The same is true in all areas of transportation. If I were in the airplane business, I’d skip the Champagne and fancy meals but break my neck to provide planes that arrived and left exactly on time.”
268 2012-08-10 Airlines, hotels and rental cars have offered variable prices for years. Those prices, however, are almost always based on capacity and timing, or are given to groups — seniors get one discount, frequent users another.

Now grocers like Safeway and Kroger are going one step further, each offering differing methods to determine individualized prices. Hoping to improve razor-thin profit margins, they are creating specific offers and prices, based on shoppers’ behaviors, that could encourage them to spend more: a bigger box of Tide and bologna if the retailer’s data suggests a shopper has a large family, for example (and expensive bologna if the data indicates the shopper is not greatly price-conscious).

The pricing model is expected to extend to other grocery chains — and over time could displace standardized price tags. Even though the use of personal shopping data might raise privacy concerns among some consumers, retailers are counting on most people accepting the trade-off if it means they get a better price for a product they want.

“If our consumer information is right, personalization is really a consumer desire right now, not so much a consumer fear,” said Michael R. Minasi, president for marketing at Safeway.

There are skeptics. Joseph Turow, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the , said shoppers should be cautious. The pricing at grocery stores and other retailers is not transparent enough to give consumers any real power or choice, he said, and “there’s a sense of fairness that’s derailed here.”

In a 2005 survey conducted by Professor Turow, most adult respondents did not know that retailers could legally charge different prices, and more than 90 percent said they would dislike it if their supermarket charged different prices to different people within the same hour.

Retailers say the groundwork has been laid with individualized coupons, which are resoundingly popular. Sites like have also made consumers comfortable with custom offers and varying pricing, they say.

Kroger, the -based grocer, has long been sending its frequent customers specialized coupons with the help of dunnhumbyUSA, a consumer research firm. A Kroger spokesman, Keith Dailey, said that 70 percent of customers who received the coupon mailings redeemed at least one of the offers, a high response rate. Kroger has had 34 consecutive quarters of same-store sales growth, which both it and analysts attribute in large part to the coupon offers.

Kroger calibrates prices by studying when someone redeems an offer for, say, ketchup at $1.70 but not for ketchup at $1.80.

“It comes down to understanding elasticity at a household level,” said Stuart Aitken, the chief executive of dunnhumbyUSA. The companies also track how frequently someone buys a product, at what times of the year and when the last purchase was made.

Kroger has been sending customers mailings with “multiple price points,” Mr. Aitken said. Now it is testing personalized prices via “other devices, or other ways of reaching out to the consumer,” he said, which could include things like smartphone apps or loyalty card swipes.

Catalina, a marketing company that tracks billions of purchases each year, is using a shopper’s location in store aisles to refine offers. Last year, Stop & Shop’s Ahold division introduced a mobile app, now run by Catalina, that allows shoppers to scan products. When they do, Catalina identifies them through their frequent shopper number or phone number, and knows where in the store they are. Special e-coupons are created on the spot.

“If someone is in the baby aisle and they just purchased diapers,” said Todd Morris, an executive vice president at Catalina, “we might present to them at that point a baby formula or baby food that might be based on the age of their baby and what food the baby might be ready for.”

Catalina studied purchase data from 54 million Americans over a year, and found that a significant portion of the sales of individual products came from a small percentage of shoppers.

At Safeway, the digital customization program allows the company to respond to current events. After a recent power failure in , for example, it sent city residents coupons for freezer items to encourage restocking once power was back.

Ms. Sanford and Ms. Vanek, both of whom live in the Denver area, were among bloggers that Safeway asked to test its pricing program in return for a $50 gift card. Like any good shopper, Ms. Vanek is already starting to game the system: she noticed that she received cheaper prices on ground when she alternated between and Dunkin’ Donuts brands rather than buying just Starbucks.

She said it would not bother her if another customer were offered a lower price. “No two people are ever going to buy the same things, so I don’t think it matters, at least not to me,” she said.

So far, consumers say, the programs seem to reflect their buying habits. Ms. Sanford, who says she tries to buy health-conscious items, says offers for Kashi cereal and bagged lettuce reflect her preferences.

Ainy Kazmi, 35, a mother of four in Ellicott City, Md., said Safeway’s program encouraged her to change what she bought. She tried to use the offers for a large bottle of cranberry juice, rather than the smaller bottle of cranberry apple juice she usually buys, and a box of Cocoa Puffs that was not on her shopping list — but she said the discounts for some reason were not loaded onto her card at checkout. She bought the items anyway.

She has used the program again since then, getting discounts on bananas and other products, and says she is happier with it since Safeway worked out the kinks. “It’s a little bit creepy, but I figure they’re checking everything anyway,” she said. “I might as well get a good deal out of it.”
269 2012-08-10 “Internet Pirates Will Always Win” (news analysis, Sunday Review, Aug. 5) argues that the only way to deal with the growing problem of online piracy is to throw up our collective hands and accept theft as a fact of life. But while copyright infringement is indeed a difficult and complicated issue, the stakes are too high to ignore it.

The livelihoods of too many creators of our favorite movies, TV shows and songs are at stake. How can we expect these content providers to continue making great art — or news organizations like The New York Times to produce in-depth and hard-hitting reporting — if we don’t value their work enough to protect it from online theft?

The Times has a long and admirable history of vigilantly protecting the creative product of its reporters, recognizing the basic principle that stealing is just plain wrong, even if it can be done electronically or anonymously.

In an ever-changing technological environment, we must continue looking for innovative ways to tackle the problem of copyright infringement while also protecting an Internet that works for everyone. It’s a tall order, but worth the fight.
270 2012-08-10 The California Legislature is considering a bill to extend basic labor rights to domestic workers: the nannies, cooks, baby sitters and other caregivers whose labor allows households to function smoothly, thus contributing to the larger economy. Domestic workers toil long hours for low pay, but have long been excluded from many of the fundamental protections most other workers enjoy under federal labor law.

The California bill, A.B. 889, which passed the Assembly and is being debated this month in the State Senate, seeks to close that gap. It would entitle workers to overtime pay, ease eligibility requirements for workers’ compensation and give them time for meals and rest breaks.

It would also add some protections specific to domestic labor, like giving live-in employees the right to eight hours of sleep and domestic workers the right to use employers’ kitchens to cook their own food.

The bill is inspired by legislation passed in 2010 in New York State after a campaign by domestic workers to shed light on the abuses that are rampant in their unregulated industry. These workers, most of them immigrant women, toil behind closed doors in private homes, often suffering in silence. The nature of their jobs makes it hard for them to organize and be noticed, much less win the protections they deserve.

Domestic workers are among a wider category of low-wage workers who are denied many basic protections under federal wage-and-hour laws. Efforts to protect other excluded employees, like home care workers and farm workers, have failed in the courts and stalled in Congress.

We hope California and other states will be willing to do what the federal government has not — which is to set basic standards to guarantee domestic workers decent working conditions and pay.
271 2012-08-10 DeAndre McCullough, whose experiences as a 15-year-old drug dealer in Baltimore inspired the writer David Simon and the former police officer Edward Burns to feature him in the book “The Corner: A Year in the Life of an Inner City Neighborhood,” which became an Emmy-winning mini-series on HBO, was found dead on Aug. 1 in Woodlawn, Md. He was 35.

Mr. Simon confirmed the death but did not specify a cause.

Focused on an open-air drug market at the corner of Fayette and Monroe Streets in West Baltimore in 1993, “The Corner” offered an intimate portrayal of Mr. McCullough and his two desperately addicted parents, Gary Castro McCullough and Denise Francine Boyd, known as Fran, as well as other impoverished people in the neighborhood.

“DeAndre and his contemporaries were 13, 14, 15, and they were sort of one foot on the corners and one foot on the playground,” Mr. Simon said in an interview. “We became fascinated by some of the kids, but especially DeAndre, because of his wit and his humor and how unguarded he was, at least as compared to a lot of kids on those corners.”

The mini-series won three Emmys and paved the way for “The Wire,” Mr. Simon’s critically acclaimed series, also on HBO, about urban life in Baltimore.

Mr. McCullough went from dealing drugs to becoming addicted himself, to heroin. But Mr. Simon did not forget Mr. McCullough. He got him a part in the final episode of “The Corner,” as a police officer who arrests DeAndre McCullough.

Mr. McCullough also played Lamar, an associate of the dapper hit man Brother Mouzone, in “The Wire,” and worked in set design and security on that show. He did security work as well for Mr. Simon’s series “Treme,” set in New Orleans, but his addictions became unmanageable.
272 2012-08-10 I HAVE never been a fan of the Hamptons. Sure, the pristine beaches and sloping waves are a welcome respite from the Manhattan summer scorch that can melt the soles of your flip flops. But by the time midsummer rolls around on the eastern end of Long Island, a hint of desperation seems to settle in among the summer habitués who know that the days of sunset clambakes and lazy afternoons at Georgica Beach are coming to an end.

So it was with trepidation that I drove with my friend Dan to the hamlet of Springs and the home of Jackson Pollock, who this year would have celebrated his 100th birthday. I have long wanted to see the house and studio where the troubled Pollock used sticks and brushes to drip abstract designs onto large canvases. But I have been thwarted too by the idea of snarled summer traffic (the studio is closed to visitors in winter) and the whine of avaricious shoppers clogging the shore’s few thoroughfares. As we barreled in Dan’s convertible along Route 27, I posed the question: Can we go to the Hamptons without actually having to go to the Hamptons?

It was a good time to ask, for as we approached Southampton, a line of cars ahead halted us abruptly. Dan took a sharp left onto Shrubland Road, and we found ourselves in another world, breezing along a country lane beneath a lush canopy of sun-dappled leaves, the wind tugging at the scarf I had knotted under my chin. We moved swiftly, which is more than I can say for the drivers we left behind choking on exhaust. It was an important lesson for our not-Hamptons adventure: Take the road less traveled. The journey is circuitous, and you will make a wrong turn or two, but it is certainly more enjoyable.

Sometimes we had to backtrack on roads like Scuttle Hole, Brick Kiln and Long Lane and, for the most part, we remained north of Route 27 and away from the beach mayhem. Pollock’s studio sits near Accabonac Creek in Springs, where he moved in 1945 with his wife, the artist Lee Krasner, and lived until he died in a car crash not far from his home, in 1956. The Stony Brook Foundation now oversees the Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center, offering tours for $10. While guides sometimes gloss over less glamorous aspects of an artist’s life, ours did not. She delved into the couple’s meager existence (they initially had no indoor plumbing), a tempestuous marriage (he had affairs), and talked openly about Pollock’s fits of alcohol-induced rage and violent death.

What I had not known was how the studio could enliven to touch. We were asked to slip on fabric bootees so we could alk on the floorboards splashed with crimson and yellow, punctuated by spots of lime green, black and sky blue, where Pollock laid his canvases to paint. Art enthusiasts are rarely allowed to touch an artist’s work, let alone walk on it. But the floor, while not meant to be a finished painting, had some of the same characteristics of his most famous pieces. I could feel the texture of Pollock’s dribbles and drops on my thinly covered feet, my toes exploring uneven layers of paint on bare wood.
273 2012-08-10 Other than pharmacy benefit managers, which manage prescription drug plans, few other players in the health care market make decisions based on cost, said Mr. Funtleyder. When doctors write a prescription, they often fail to consider the price of the drug. And since many patients have prescription drug coverage, they also often ignore the cost. The situation can create a lucrative opening for some companies, especially in a low-profile corner of the industry like dermatology, where price increases might not attract broader notice.

“You might have a lot of itchy people, but people can go around and manage O.K.” Mr. Funtleyder said. “A rash is not a public health emergency.”

Even so, some doctors said the prices were unacceptable. “Patients complain about it at every office visit,” said Dr. Mark G. Lebwohl, chairman of the National Psoriasis Foundation’s medical board and of dermatology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. “I think it’s outrageous that the cost of a generic cream — or any cream — exceeds the cost of a doctor’s office visit.”

Most generic creams and ointments in the United States are made by three companies: Perrigo, Taro and Fougera, which was recently acquired by Sandoz, the generics division of Novartis. It is a specialized business, requiring both the right equipment and expertise. Before getting clearance to make a drug, the companies must demonstrate to the Food and Drug Administration that their creams are absorbed through the skin in the same quantities as the brand-name drugs, a more difficult task than proving that a generic pill is equivalent.

“It’s much more time-consuming and expensive to get these drugs approved,” said Brian Sheehy, managing partner of IsZo Capital, a minority shareholder in Taro, who said that increased scrutiny of manufacturing practices by the F.D.A. had raised costs and forced some companies to stop making certain drugs. So even if prices increase, “it’s still not worth anyone’s time to supply the market.”

In all, the prices of more than a dozen generic dermatology drugs have increased significantly since 2010, according to the distributor Cardinal Health, which tracks price fluctuations in generic drugs. Express Scripts, the pharmacy benefit manager, found that total spending on dermatology drugs increased 18.2 percent in the first five months of 2012 over last year, driven mainly by the rising cost of individual prescriptions.

Jim Grossman, a public relations executive in Manhattan, said he was surprised when Target recently asked him to pay about $24 for the nystatin and triamcinolone antifungal cream, made by Taro, that he has used on and off for years. The drug had been on Target’s list of generics that the store sells for $4.

“I can understand why the price might go up, but not go up six times all at once,” said Mr. Grossman. He added that Target allowed him to pay the $4 price when he complained.

James Kedrowski, the interim chief executive of Taro, said the company did its best to offer fair prices to customers. But, he said, pricing structures for many of its products had gotten so low that other drug makers “were dropping out because they couldn’t make any money at it.”

That’s not to say the companies aren’t reaping the benefits of the price increases. In a May earnings call, Perrigo’s chairman and chief executive, Joseph C. Papa, told investors that a “favorable pricing environment” in the company’s prescription drug business was one of the reasons prescription net sales increased last quarter by 84 percent. On Monday, Taro reported that net income for the previous quarter had increased to $62.9 million from $35.7 million last year, a 76 percent increase.

Perrigo and Sandoz declined to comment on pricing strategies. In a statement, however, Sandoz said “we believe that complex, difficult-to-make dermatology generics continue to offer great value to U.S. patients and payers.”

Whether the price increases will last is a matter of debate. Mr. Kedrowski said that in some cases prices were starting to drop again as competitors who had stopped making certain drugs saw opportunity and returned to the market. Until recently, Taro was the only producer of nystatin, he said, but now the company has four competitors. The price of the cream used by Mr. Grossman, a combination of nystatin and triamcinolone, remains elevated.

“We basically believe the market will resolve itself,” Mr. Kedrowski said. One analyst echoed his sentiments, saying there were signs some drug prices had already begun to drop, even if it wasn’t reflected in available drug pricing data, which is notoriously vague.

But not everyone agrees. The question of whether prices will stay high has become a flash point in a dispute between Sun Pharmaceuticals, which owns two-thirds of Taro, and minority shareholders who have argued that the shares are worth more than Sun is offering. In July, a special committee of the board rejected a buyout bid by Sun, describing the offer as inadequate.

Mr. Sheehy of IsZo Capital has opposed the buyout, arguing that the higher prices are here to stay. “It’s a strange situation because all of these products individually are tiny, but collectively, they’re significant,” he said.
274 2012-08-10 Over a decade of war, the United States sprayed about 20 million gallons of Agent Orange and other herbicides in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, halting only after scientists commissioned by the Agriculture Department issued a report expressing concerns that dioxin showed “a significant potential to increase birth defects.” By the time the spraying stopped, Agent Orange and other herbicides had destroyed 2 million hectares, or 5.5 million acres, of forest and cropland, an area roughly the size of New Jersey.

Nguyen Van Rinh, a retired lieutenant general who is now the chairman of the Vietnam Association for Victims of Agent Orange/Dioxin, has vivid memories of hearing American aircraft above the jungles of southern Vietnam and seeing Agent Orange raining down in sheets on him and his troops. Plants and animals exposed to the defoliant were dead within days. Many of his troops later suffered illnesses that he suspects were linked to the repeated exposure to Agent Orange, used in concentrations 20 to 55 times that of normal agricultural use.

“I would like to have one message sent to the American people,” Mr. Rinh said in his office, where a large bust of Ho Chi Minh, the wartime leader and icon, stared down from a shelf behind his desk. “The plight of Agent Orange victims continues. I think the relationship would rise up to new heights if the American government took responsibility and helped their victims and address the consequences.”

Those who have worked on the issue say the American government has been slow to address the issue in part because of concerns about liability. It took years for American soldiers who sprayed the chemicals to secure settlements from the chemical companies that produced them. The United States government, which also lagged in acknowledging the problem, has spent billions of dollars on disability payments and health care for American soldiers who came into contact with Agent Orange.

Mr. Shear, the American ambassador, sidestepped a reporter’s question after the ceremony about whether the United States would take responsibility for the environmental and health effects of Agent Orange.

“There is a disconnect between what America has done for its soldiers and what America has done for Vietnam,” said Charles Bailey, the director of the Agent Orange in Vietnam Program, an effort by the Aspen Institute, a nongovernmental organization based in Washington, to reach common ground between the United States and Vietnam on the issue. “I’m sometimes glad I’m not a U.S. diplomat in trying to square that circle.”

A class-action case against chemical companies filed in the United States on behalf of millions of Vietnamese was dismissed in 2005 on the grounds that supplying the defoliant did not amount to a war crime and that the Vietnamese plaintiffs had not established a clear causal effect between exposure to Agent Orange and their health problems. The United States government is rolling out a modest $11.4 million program to help people with disabilities in Vietnam, but it is not explicitly linked to Agent Orange. The oft-repeated American formulation is “assistance regardless of cause.”

When environmental factors are linked to disease, proof positive is sometimes hard to determine. American military studies have outlined connections between Agent Orange and myriad ailments, while Dow Chemical maintains that the “very substantial body of human evidence on Agent Orange establishes that veterans’ illnesses are not caused by Agent Orange.”

In Vietnam, there are many cases in which links to Agent Orange appear striking.

Nguyen Van Dung, 42, moved to Da Nang in 1996 with his wife and newborn daughter and worked at the former American base, wading through the knee-deep mud of drainage ditches and dredging them with a shovel. During the first 10 years, he, like other employees, harvested fish and eels from the large ponds and canals on the air base grounds, taking them home almost daily. Studies later showed high concentrations of dioxin in the fat tissue and organs of the fish.

The couple’s first daughter is now at the top of her class, but their second child, also a girl, was born in 2000 with a rare blood disease. She died at 7.

Their son Tu was born in 2008, and he was quickly found to have the same blood condition. With regular transfusions, he has defied his doctor’s prediction that he would not live past 3, but he is nearly blind, with bulging eyes that roll wildly, and he speaks in high-pitched tones that only his parents can understand. His chest cavity is so weak that he cannot breathe if he lies on his stomach.

What caused the birth defects, and who is to blame? Detailed medical tests are out of the question for Tu’s parents, whose combined monthly income is the equivalent of $350, much of which goes to medical care.

But Luu Thi Thu, the boy’s mother, does not hesitate to assign blame.

“If there hadn’t been a war and Americans hadn’t sprayed dioxin and chemicals into this area, we wouldn’t be suffering these consequences,” she said.

“What happened to my son is already done, and nothing can change that,” she said. “The American and Vietnamese governments need to clean up the Da Nang airport so that the next generation will not be affected.”

Le Ke Son, a doctor and the most senior Vietnamese official responsible for the government’s programs related to Agent Orange and other chemicals used during the war, said the debates should take a back seat to aid. “We spend a lot of time arguing about the reason why people are disabled,” he said. “One way or another they are victims and suffered from the legacy of the war. We should do something for them.”
275 2012-08-10 6 ounces green beans, trimmed, and cut in half if long

1 small cucumber (preferably Persian), cut in half lengthwise and then sliced in half-moons

1 small head of Boston lettuce, 1 romaine heart, or 4 to 5 cups mixed baby salad greens, washed and dried

2 to 4 tablespoons chopped fresh herbs, like parsley, basil, tarragon, chives and marjoram

3 or 4 tomatoes, cut in wedges, or 1/2 pint cherry tomatoes, cut in half

6 to 12 anchovy fillets, rinsed and drained on paper towels

1. Using a fork or a small whisk, mix together the vinegar and lemon juice with the garlic, salt, pepper and Dijon mustard. Whisk in the olive oil and yogurt.

2. Steam the potatoes above 1 inch simmering water for 10 to 15 minutes, until tender. Transfer to a large salad bowl and season with salt and pepper. Add the tuna and toss with 1/4 cup of the dressing while the potatoes are hot.

3. Bring a pot of water to a boil, and fill a bowl with ice water. When the water comes to a boil, add a generous amount of salt and add the green beans. Cook 4 to 5 minutes, until just tender. Transfer to the ice water, then drain. Dry on paper towels. Add to the salad bowl, along with the red or green pepper, cucumber, hard-boiled eggs, lettuce and herbs. Garnish with the tomatoes, anchovies and olives, and serve.

Advance preparation: The dressing and all of the vegetables can be prepared several hours before the salad is assembled. The potatoes can be cooked and tossed with the dressing and tuna several hours ahead as well.

Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 219 calories; 11 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 77 milligrams cholesterol; 18 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 177 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
276 2012-08-10 There's no official word yet on which movie will be showing when the New York Film Festival takes off this year, but its organizers know how they'll bring the festival in for a landing: "Flight," a new thriller directed by  Robert Zemeckis  and st...
277 2012-08-10 9:06 p.m. | Updated Federal authorities ended two investigations into the actions of  Goldman Sachs  during the financial crisis, handing a quiet victory to the bank after years of public scrutiny....
278 2012-08-10 A security firm said Thursday that it had discovered what it believed was the fourth state-sponsored computer virus to surface in the Middle East in the last three years, apparently aimed at computers in Lebanon.The firm, Kaspersky Lab, said that ...
279 2012-08-10 9:52 p.m. | Updated As publicly traded stocks, professional sports teams have generally been losers.  Manchester United , one of the world's most popular soccer clubs, will soon find out whether its winning ways on the field will make it a rare ex...
280 2012-08-11 It is not what it seems. Or is it?...
281 2012-08-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
282 2012-08-11 When a prudent candidate like Mitt Romney picks someone like Paul Ryan as his running mate, it suggests that he felt he held a losing position....
283 2012-08-11 By choosing Paul Ryan, Mitt Romney has upended a whole host of assumptions about his candidacy....
284 2012-08-11 The 100-year-old sport of modern pentathlon is itself something of an unfamiliar horse to most Americans, though it is quite popular in Eastern Europe. Legend has it that Baron Pierre de Coubertin, the father of the modern Olympics and an ardent romantic, selected the five sports based on what any self-respecting soldier would do if he were behind enemy lines — that is, repel his antagonists in a fencing match, swim across something, run a certain distance, shoot at some people and ride away on whatever horse he happened to come across.

“That’s nonsense, really,” said Andy Archibald, a historian of the pentathlon and a member of Britain’s gold-winning team in 1976. “His selection of sports was quite random.”

In the first pentathlon, in 1912, the athletes were allowed to use horses with which they were acquainted. That is the case in other equestrian events, in which the long-forged symbiosis between rider and horse can be the deciding factor and the course is designed to test the horse as well as the rider.

But de Coubertin believed from the beginning that the real test of athletes’ mettle was their ability to handle a horse that they had never met — or, in the usual lingo, the unfamiliar horse. And from 1920 onward, that is how the event has been conducted.

The process of assigning the horses is fairly straightforward. The athletes line up at the site of the riding event, and the numbered horses are paraded before them. The athlete who is highest in the standings picks a number, and from this one draw, the horses are assigned to the competitors. The athlete might draw a piece of paper out of a hat; sometimes the ceremony involves one of those bingo hall contraptions with the frenetic Ping-Pong balls. At these London Games, the athlete will draw from a bowl with individually numbered wooden blocks.

Someone from each team — a coach or sometimes the athlete — is likely to have recorded video of the horses at a test run the day before, and after the drawing the competitors rush to study it. But it really comes down to the 20-minute icebreaker.

Still, there is not much even the best rider can do about a horse that is simply bad, which is more often the case than one might expect.

“I got thrown off in Moscow in a competition last year and broke my arm in two places, and I’ve had horses that wouldn’t go over anything,” said Margaux Isaksen, an American pentathlete. “I’ve been to some countries, and I won’t give specifics, but the horses are just about lame.”

The horses are often donated by show-jumping trainers, and choosing the most suitable ones can be something of an art, explained Philip Harland, the riding director for the London Olympics. Over the past few months, Harland has winnowed a pool of 149 horses to 45, favoring the capable and even-tempered.

“We don’t want any horses with any vices,” Harland said.

Of course, in a large field there is no way to guarantee a perfectly equitable distribution of equine agreeability. That is part of what can be so worrying about the unfamiliar horse: that one’s success at an event one has trained for so diligently can depend on something so arbitrary as a drawing from a bowl. It would be like a gymnast’s finding out only right before her competition just how long and wide her balance beam would be, and also that her beam had a tendency to be moody.

While no one appears concerned about the quality of horses at these Olympics given Britain’s strong equestrian tradition, there are competitions in countries that do not have access to a broad array of quality horses. There may be such a limited pool in some places that the competitors are already quite familiar with the horses they will be riding, and the horses may even know them, too. But this can be of little comfort when a horse knows you and does not like you.

Unfamiliarity in some cases can be bliss, and coaches may not share information they have about horses to keep riders from becoming nervous. David Svoboda, a Czech pentathlete, recalled the sinking feeling he had when he learned of his draw at the 2008 Olympics, because he knew that the horse had been a disaster in the run-through the day before.

Beijing seems to come up a lot in conversation.

“In Beijing, not only were some of the horses not up to standard,” Archibald said, “but a terrible downpour turned the area into hash, and people in the crowd who had never seen horses before made such strange noises that the horses were spooked.”

Stories of bad draws are legion. Many end with some successful competitor plummeting in the standings after vainly trying to negotiate with a horse that seems unfamiliar not only to its rider, but to the experience of being ridden at all. Considering that these are top-level competitors, the number of injuries may be surprising.

“Every single time I’ve been in a pentathlon, something unfortunate has happened,” Suzanne Stettinius of the United States team said.

At the recent world championships in Rome, a Mexican athlete’s horse suddenly stopped short before a jump, she said, propelling the athlete straight through the standard.

Meanwhile, “the girl from France didn’t make it over the first jump because she just couldn’t get the horse to go over,” Stettinius continued. “She didn’t manage to make it over one jump, and she went from being in third to 35th place.”

The reason was not complicated, Stettinius said: “She just didn’t get along with the horse.”
285 2012-08-11 CINCINNATI — This was early in their preseason opener Friday night, after the Jets failed to record a first down on their opening offensive series. For a brief moment, their punt team had 10 people on the field. It was missing a very important player. It was missing its personal punt protector. It was missing Tim Tebow.

“I’ve got to remember that better,” Tebow said.

This is the Jets’ new world, one that they created after acquiring this Swiss Army knife of a football player in March. They interpreted this exhibition game against the Cincinnati Bengals, a 17-6 defeat, less as an unleashing than an unveiling, an occasion for the Jets to audition all that is new (and allegedly improved) about them this season — their offensive system, their touted draft picks and, yes, a certain well-known backup quarterback.

Glitches overshadowed bursts of promise. The first-team offense foundered. Their first-round draft pick, defensive lineman Quinton Coples, flourished. And when it was over, despite a tepid beginning to the Tony Sparano era as offensive coordinator, Tebow had left a clear impression — that he will emerge as an asset for the Jets this season, be it as a punt protector or an elusive running threat or something else entirely.

That is the intrigue about this grand experiment, the fulcrum of the Jets’ season — how Mark Sanchez and Tebow can co-exist, sharing snaps and scrutiny. Neither quarterback was particularly sharp passing the ball on a night when their offensive line struggled to provide adequate protection. Sanchez completed 4 of 6 throws for 21 yards, Tebow 4 of 8 with 27 yards and an interception, a poorly thrown ball that fluttered far wide of the intended target, Jeff Cumberland.

But the enduring image is of Tebow evading three defenders on a third-and-8, scrambling 14 yards. That dash up the middle — which almost certainly would have been blown dead during the controlled no-contact environment of training camp — extended a drive that produced the Jets’ only points in the first three quarters, a 42-yard field goal by Josh Brown. Tebow ran for 34 yards on 4 carries.
286 2012-08-11 Investors came to the rescue of Knight Capital, regulators accused Standard Chartered of dealings with Iran and grocery stores are testing customized coupons for shoppers....
287 2012-08-11 I’ve been known to say that I was present at the creation of “shareholder value.”

It’s an exaggeration, of course. But in 1982 — literally half a lifetime ago for me — I wrote an article about the first big takeover attempt by . One of his central justifications for the takeover movement that he helped spawn was that company managements didn’t care enough about the company’s owners, a k a the shareholders. Their cash-based compensation wasn’t properly aligned with the desires of shareholders. Shareholders, he believed, need to assert their primacy — and force executives to start paying attention to the price of their companies’ stock. I later learned that Pickens was not the first person to make this argument — academics had already created the theory that undergirds it. But, at the time, it was still a pretty radical view.

As the expression goes, be careful what you wish for. Shareholder value has long since become the mantra of the business culture. Corporate boards shower executives with stock options to “align” them with shareholders. “Underperforming” companies find themselves under siege from activist investors. Increasing shareholder involvement is viewed as the way to fix whatever ails corporate governance. Over time, “maximizing shareholder value” became viewed as the primary task of the corporation.

And, well, you can see the results all around you. They’re not pretty. Too many chief executives succumb to the pressure to boost short-term earnings at the expense of long-term value creation. After all, their compensation depends on it. In the lead-up to the financial crisis — to take just one extreme example — financial institutions took on far too much risk in search of easy profits that would lead to a higher stock price.

Now, though, it feels as if we are at the dawn of a new movement — one aimed at overturning the hegemony of shareholder value. Lynn Stout, a law professor, has written a new book, “The Shareholder Value ,” in which she argues that there is nothing in the law that supports the idea that shareholders should be the only constituency that matters. Other academics, such as Roger Martin, the highly regarded dean of the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, are critical of the emphasis on shareholder value. A number of chief executives, such as Howard Schultz of Starbucks, have said that companies need to have a larger purpose than merely raising the stock price.

And, most recently, in the Harvard Business Review, Jay W. Lorsch, a professor at Harvard Business School, and Justin Fox, the editorial director of the HBR Group (and a former colleague of mine at Fortune), published an article entitled, “What Good Are Shareholders?” Not much, is their answer.

One of their arguments is that the calls for increased shareholder democracy are misguided; shareholders, they write, simply aren’t particularly well-suited to be “corporate bosses.” They are too diffuse, and too short-term-oriented, especially now that dominates the market. Indeed, despite the increased emphasis on shareholders the past few decades, companies haven’t gotten noticeably better.
288 2012-08-11 For two years, the opposition in this city of 110,000 about 30 miles southeast of Nashville has been small but vocal. In 2010, vandals painted “not welcome” on construction signs at the mosque and set fire to construction equipment. A Texas man was indicted in June on charges that he left messages threatening to detonate a bomb at the center on Sept. 11.

In May, a county judge ruled that the construction plans had not received sufficient comment from the public and that an occupancy permit could not be granted. Federal prosecutors filed a discrimination lawsuit, and a federal judge ruled in the mosque’s favor last month.

Only one opponent of the mosque came to voice his concerns at the opening. Dan J. Qualls, 50, a former auto plant worker, wearing an “I Love Jesus” hat and a Ten Commandments shirt, said he understood that the First Amendment protected the right to worship freely but said he believed Islam represented violence. When he heard about the mosque’s opening on the local TV news, he decided to come out and “represent the Christians.”

“My honest opinion is, I wish this wasn’t here,” he said.

The mosque prayer hall forms just one part of the center, which will eventually be expanded to more than 50,000 square feet to include a gym, a swimming pool and other facilities, said Saleh Sbenaty, a board member. The prayer hall itself, about 4,500 square feet, can hold up to 500 people, but has a movable wall to divide the area to allow for other uses, like interfaith events with churches, synagogues and other religious groups.

The center is in a quiet, suburban neighborhood, beside a Baptist church. On Friday, workers hoisted an American flag up a pole.

Many in Murfreesboro have embraced the congregation’s right to worship freely. “That religious organization has been treated just exactly as we treat any other religious group,” said Ernest Burgess, the mayor of Rutherford County. “It has been a difficult struggle through the legal process. But we treated these people fairly, as they deserved.”

Mr. Sbenaty said the center will hold an official, full-scale opening in several weeks after a permanent certificate of occupancy is issued, but on Friday the prayer hall was opened for the weekly Friday worship, known as jumaa. He estimated there were about 250 to 300 Muslim families in the area who would likely be regularly served by the center.

Mr. Sbenaty said the center’s members were “very concerned” about safety after the Sikh temple shooting near Milwaukee and the fire at the mosque in Joplin, Mo., and had hired a private security team. “Even before those incidents, we were the subject of vandalism, intimidation, arson and bomb threats,” he said. “We are not new to this. But we are not going to be deterred. We are not going to give up our rights just because somebody is going to threaten us.”

Joe Brandon Jr., a lawyer representing several Murfreesboro residents who sued to block the mosque, could not be reached.
289 2012-08-11 The landing of the terrific Curiosity rover on Mars has rightly thrilled the world, and the nation’s leaders are taking a bow. “If anyone has been harboring doubts about the status of U.S. leadership in space,” the president’s science adviser, John P. Holdren, said, “well, there’s a one-ton automobile-size piece of American ingenuity. And it’s sitting on the surface of Mars right now.”

But alas, the Curiosity mission is a legacy of the Bush administration, begun by one NASA administrator, Sean O’Keefe, and rammed through to completion over the objections of vocal critics by his gutsy successor, Mike Griffin, who also initiated the Maven Mars orbiter, scheduled for launching next year.

The Obama administration, however, has no plans to continue in like vein. Far from it. It has canceled NASA’s plans for joint Mars missions with the Europeans in 2016 and 2018 and is proposing to butcher the program budget.

The figures speak for themselves. This year’s NASA Mars exploration budget is $587 million. The administration is proposing to cut that to $360.8 million in fiscal year 2013, $227.7 million in 2014, and $188.7 million in 2015, a level that would effectively put the nation out of the Mars exploration business.

If America is to remain the vanguard of humanity’s reach into space, we need to reject such folly.

The writer is an astronautical engineer, president of the Mars Society and author of “The Case for Mars: The Plan to Settle the Red Planet and Why We Must.”
290 2012-08-11 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Import prices fell unexpectedly in July for the fourth consecutive month as costs declined for imported oil, industrial supplies and even many consumer goods, the Labor Department said on Friday, further reducing inflation pressures.

Overall import prices dropped 0.6 percent last month, the agency said. They have risen only once in the last eight months.

Analysts expected import prices to rise 0.1 percent in July, and the decline could give the Federal Reserve more flexibility to ease monetary policy if policy makers thought the economy needed it.

Still, an increase in the rate of hiring in July has led some economists to question whether the Fed is ready for a new round of bond purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing.

Even with import prices sagging, “people are still going to wonder whether the Fed will embark into another round of quantitative easing,” said Robbert Van Batenburg, head of equity research at Louis Capital Markets in New York.
291 2012-08-11 Tyrann Mathieu, the dynamic Louisiana State defensive back and a Heisman Trophy finalist last season, was dismissed from the football team Friday for violating an unspecified athletic department rule.

“We have a simple policy here of behavior, and consequences are pretty spelled out and defined,” L.S.U. Coach Les Miles said Friday at a hastily organized news conference. “We did what we could do, but Tyrann Mathieu is no longer on our team. He violated team policies.”

Miles declined to specify which rule, saying that it was a “fundamental behavior” violation and that he agreed with the decision. At one point, he exhaled, then said: “We extended ourselves to the full length of the policy. And here we go.”

Generally lost amid Mathieu’s 2011 season, in which he was named an all-American, was his suspension for L.S.U.’s midseason game against Auburn, reportedly for violating L.S.U.’s drug policies. Nonetheless, he electrified college football fans with his spectacular play, which included six forced fumbles, five fumbles recovered and four touchdowns scored — two on fumble recoveries, two on punt returns.

His personality and playmaking turned Mathieu — 5-foot-9 and 175 pounds — into a collegiate star who personified L.S.U.’s stingy defense in the team’s run to the Bowl Championship Series title game, which it lost to Alabama.
292 2012-08-11 THE number of jobs available in the United States has risen to its highest level in four years, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said this week, providing more evidence that the job market is slowly recovering.

There were 3.8 million job openings at the end of June, up 105,000 from the previous month and the most since July 2008. That is also 1.6 million more openings than when the market hit bottom in July 2009.

All of the gains in May came in the private sector. The number of open government jobs declined in June, as it had in two of the preceding three months. But at 363,000, the government figure was well above the low of 280,000 reached in 2009.

The government’s Jolts report — Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey — comes out more than a month after the widely followed monthly job numbers are released and, as a result, gets little attention. But it provides significant information on how the job market is changing by asking a sampling of employers how many workers were added during the month and how many left. It also seeks information on why those people left, and on how many jobs the company has that it is seeking to fill.

In normal times, one thing that stands out is just how much turnover there is. During the most recent 12 months, the government estimates that 51.4 million people started new jobs, and that 49.6 million people left old ones, voluntarily or otherwise. Those numbers may be a little inflated, since the survey is of individual sites, not of entire companies. A worker transferred from I.B.M.’s New York office to its Los Angeles office might be counted as leaving one job and starting another, for example.

Still, the total number of jobs begun during the 12 months equaled 39.2 percent of the total of jobs that existed a year earlier. But the number of separations was nearly as high, equaling 37.8 percent of jobs. Before the recession began, the hiring figure was as high as 48.1 percent, while the departure figure was at 46.1 percent.
293 2012-08-11 We have the ability, the hunger even, to watch something when we already know the resolution because we have done it before, most prominently with “Columbo,” the long-running detective series starring Peter Falk. That show’s episodes didn’t build to the revelation of the murderer’s identity; they began with it.

The reason to watch was to see how Falk’s Lieutenant Columbo, one of television’s great characters, wore down the killer and cracked the case. The gimmick worked for an extraordinarily long time. Falk, who died last year, first played the character in a 1968 made-for-TV movie, and he was still playing him in 2003.

“Wait a minute,” you may be saying. “There is no comparison between the Olympics and a moldy old detective show.” But how is a crafty detective’s pursuit of a wily suspect most often described? As a cat-and-mouse game. The key word there is “game.” A game has a winner and a loser, whether it’s beach volleyball or a fictional murder investigation, and in “Columbo” there was never any doubt who was going to win.

So those of you who are still trying to avoid hearing real-time Olympic results need to focus on what made “Columbo” so enjoyable. It was the little things — all those delightful tics Falk put into the character — and the comfort of not having to figure out who done it.

“Columbo” was relaxation television, which, frankly, we could use more of in prime time, choked as it is with frenetic reality shows and densely plotted dramas. And that’s how to consume after-the-fact Olympic coverage: as comfort food, not as a stress-inducing, thrill-of-victory-agony-of-defeat double espresso.

It’s liberating to watch all these obscure sports and not feel as if you had to take a crash course in how they’re played so that you can try to gauge who’s going to win. Is 12.94 a good time in the 110-meter hurdles or a bad score in the men’s high bar? Does water polo involve any actual strategy, or is it just a bunch of guys or gals goofing around in a pool? Is there really any appreciable difference between one pair of synchronized divers and another? Don’t care; already know who won. Just going to sit here and admire the impossibly fit bodies and be glad I don’t have to wear that ridiculous pool headgear.

With foreknowledge of the results, you can even make adjustments to suit your personal anxiety-tolerance level. Don’t want to see Gabby Douglas’s excruciating fall? Turns out a balance beam routine lasts exactly as long as it takes to go to the kitchen and get some ice cream.

The ratings for NBC’s coverage prove that many people have already discovered the sedentary joys of this type of viewing. But NBC deserves some criticism for not making it easier for holdouts to make the transition. Executives should have helped people learn to love already-know-the-results Olympics by subtly appealing to that “Columbo” gene mentioned earlier.

Bob Costas, for instance, should have been in a Columbo trench coat every time we saw him; you suspect that he could have done a pretty good Peter Falk impersonation. England; rain: it even makes sartorial sense. An occasional shot of Mr. Costas next to a beat-up car would have helped too, though in deference to the host country it should have been a Mini rather than Columbo’s Peugeot.

And all those post-event interviewers should have adapted Columbo’s most beloved quirk, the just-one-more-thing grilling technique. The detective, of course, was famous for questioning a suspect, then walking away, then turning around and saying, “Just one more thing,” repeating this until the beleaguered killer broke down and confessed. Who wouldn’t prefer that to the obligatory questions and numbingly innocuous answers NBC has generally settled for?

INTERVIEWER So how does it feel to have won the gold?

ATHLETE I’ve been imagining this my entire life, and I’m proud to have been able to represent the United States.

INTERVIEWER Thank you. [Pause.] Oh, just one more thing: Do you ever wonder how much you could get for that medal on eBay?

ATHLETE I’ve dreamed about this since I was a child, and I’m glad to have been able to represent the United States.

INTERVIEWER Thank you. [Pause.] Oh, just one more thing: We know you wiped your prints off the gun, but are you sure you wiped them off the ammunition that’s still in the chamber?

ATHLETE All right, for God’s sake; I admit it: I am sick to death of hearing the National Anthem! I hate that song. And this unitard is uncomfortable as hell. I can’t wait to get the son of a bitch off. You happy now?

INTERVIEWER Back to you, Bob. Is it still raining up in the booth?
294 2012-08-11 LONDON — The afternoon before the men’s Olympic 10K open water event, Oussama Mellouli of Tunisia was undecided about being in it. He had a medal from the London Games, the bronze he earned Saturday night in the 1,500-meter freestyle, the longest pool event. In the days after that race, Mellouli came down with flulike symptoms.

On Tuesday, he plowed through a workout on the Serpentine Lake course and felt awful. His coach, Dave Salo, who directs the men’s and women’s swim programs at the University of Southern California, where Mellouli starred in college, talked to him by phone and encouraged him to start the race and see how he felt after two laps of the six-lap course.

Mellouli, 28, took his advice and was rewarded with a spot in history. Competing in only his third 10K event, Mellouli won to become the first swimmer, male or female, to medal in the pool and in the open water in the same Games. He finished in 1 hour 49 minutes 55.1 seconds, 3.4 seconds ahead of the runner-up, Thomas Lurz of Germany. Lurz was the bronze medalist in 2008 when the event made its Olympic debut. Richard Weinberger finished third to give Canada its first Olympic medal in the event.

The lone American, Alex Meyer, finished 53.1 seconds behind Mellouli, in 10th. He was swimming the event in memory of his friend Fran Crippen, a 2012 Olympic hopeful who died during an open-water race in the Middle East in fall 2010.

Mellouli said he felt horrible Wednesday after Tuesday’s swim. “So this is my first time in the water in the last 48 hours,” he said. “So to come here and win this is unbelievable.”

In an interview from the United States, his coach, Salo, said dryly, “Glad he got out of bed this a.m.”

At the 2008 Olympics, Mellouli won the 1,500-meter freestyle, finished fifth in the 400 freestyle and raced in the heats of the 200 freestyle. The mile and 10,000-meter double was infinitely more difficult, he said, which would explain his reaction after he dragged himself out of the water. The normally mellow Mellouli thumped his chest and raised his arms as if signaling for a touchdown.
295 2012-08-11 Manchester United made its trading debut on Friday, but the stock closed at $14, the same as the initial public offering price. The stock offering had drawn some attention because of the prominence of the British soccer club, but trading volume diminished shortly after shares began trading.

The stock priced well below its expected range on Thursday, valuing the team at $2.3 billion.

Yahoo shares fell 5.4 percent, to $15.15, a day after the company said it might reconsider what it does with the cash it gets from a multibillion-dollar sale of half of its stake in the Alibaba Group. Yahoo previously promised to return most of the cash to shareholders.

For the week, the Dow rose 0.9 percent, the S.& P. 500 climbed 1.1 percent and the Nasdaq advanced 1.8 percent. The Nasdaq has gained in four of the last five weeks.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 42.76 points, or 0.32 percent, to 13,207.95. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index added 3.07 points, or 0.22 percent, at 1,405.87. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 2.22 points, or 0.07 percent, to close at 3,020.86.

Data on Chinese trade and bank lending suggested that pro-growth policies had been insufficient in the face of weak demand from China’s trading partners, and more urgent government action might be needed to stabilize the economy. Data on Chinese exports included a 16 percent decline in shipments to Europe compared with a year ago.

Trading on the stock markets has been relatively light in August, ahead of what is anticipated to be a busier September, when investors return from summer holidays and central banks, including the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank, may swing into action.

The European Central Bank is expected to act soon, though not before September, to lower punishing borrowing costs for Spain and Italy as a way to stabilize the euro zone’s economy.

The expectation of central bank action, however, may give support to equities as investors think twice about shorting the market on the possibility of any action.

Some economists said China’s central bank could move this weekend to ease policy. It has cut banks’ required reserve ratio in three steps since November to free up new lending, and it cut interest rates in June and July.

Interest rates were lower. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 10/32, to 9922/32, and the yield fell to 1.66 percent from 1.70 percent late Thursday.
296 2012-08-11 LONDON -- The system at the center of a rate-rigging scandal is set to be overhauled as regulators respond to public anger over  the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate , or Libor.Martin Wheatley, the regulator in charge of a plan ba...
297 2012-08-11 Bob Dylan, below, will play the first concert at the newly refurbished Capitol Theater in Port Chester, N.Y., when it reopens on Sept. 4, Mr. Dylan announced on his Web site on Friday morning. He has rehearsed at the theater in recent years and is...
298 2012-08-11 Manchester United had hoped to add to its soccer successes with a strong debut as a newly public company on Friday. But its initial public offering fell short of that aim.On Friday, their first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the so...
299 2012-08-11 8:21 p.m. | Updated  Time magazine and CNN suspended Fareed Zakaria, the writer and television host, on Friday after he apologized for plagiarizing sections of his column on gun control in the Aug. 20 issue of Time.Some passages in the column, " T...
300 2012-08-12 The Barclays rate-manipulation case has thrust Gary Gensler — and his once-obscure agency, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission — into the spotlight....
301 2012-08-12 The record label and the festival announced an alliance after years of trademark lawsuits....
302 2012-08-12 In the final minutes of the men’s basketball final, the United States took over the game on the offensive strength of LeBron James and Kevin Durant, winning its second straight gold medal....
303 2012-08-12 A top aide to Mitt Romney said that the campaign obtained "several years" of income tax returns from potential running mates - suggesting that Paul Ryan had produced tax returns for a greater number of years than Mr. Romney....
304 2012-08-12 Marissa Frances Seinfeld Kaplan and Aaron Marc Dobbs are to be married Sunday by Rabbi Andrea Frank at Fishkill Farms, an apple orchard in Hopewell Junction, N.Y.

The bride, 36, will be known as Mrs. Kaplan Dobbs. She is a project administrator at the Center for Suicide Risk Assessment at the New York State Psychiatric Institute at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in New York. She is also pursuing a Master of Public Health degree in mental health policy and management at Hunter College. She graduated from Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass.

She is a daughter of Phyllis S. Feinberg of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and Kenneth N. Kaplan of San Diego.

The groom, 40, is the director of visitor services at the 9/11 Memorial. He graduated from New York University.

He is the son of Judy L. Dobbs and Stephen M. Dobbs, both of San Rafael, Calif.
305 2012-08-12 Caitlin Glasheen McCarthy and Bayard Dodge were married Friday at St. Mary’s Church in Winchester, Mass. The Rev. Richard C. Messina, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

On Saturday the couple took part in a nondenominational ceremony before family and friends at the Estate at Moraine Farm in Beverly, Mass. The Rev. Dr. Bernard Wilson, a Congregational minister, led the ceremony.

Mrs. Dodge, 29, is an account director at Williams Whittle, an advertising and marketing agency in Alexandria, Va. She graduated from Trinity College in Hartford.

She is a daughter of Frances L. McCarthy and William D. McCarthy of Winchester. The bride’s father retired as president of the Cooperative Bank in Roslindale, Mass. He is now an estate planning and administration lawyer with MPD Law, a firm in Charlestown, Mass. Her mother is a tax lawyer in Winchester.

Mr. Dodge, 27, is studying for a law degree at Georgetown. He graduated from Princeton.

He is a son of Paula Dodge and Bayard Dodge of Weston, Conn. The groom’s mother retired as the development associate for the Domus Foundation in Stamford, Conn., a nonprofit organization that operates schools and group homes for low-income children. His father is a senior vice president at SwissRe Corporate Solutions, an insurance company in New York. He is also the vice president of the Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation, a charitable foundation in New York, and is on the boards of the International College in Beirut, Lebanon, and Camp AmeriKids in Stamford.

The groom is a great-great-grandson of Cleveland H. Dodge, who was chairman of the Phelps Dodge Corporation.
306 2012-08-12 Being a Democrat in a Texas election is like being the fastest sprinter outside of Jamaica or the best beach volleyball team outside of the United States. Unless something odd happens, your medal will be silver or bronze.

Eventually, a Democrat will win a statewide election in Texas. It could happen this year, though that seems highly unlikely given the recent history of elections here, the relative organizational strength of the candidates statewide and the fact that the incumbent Democrat at the top of this year’s ticket — President Obama — lost soundly in Texas four years ago. At the height of his popularity.

But this is not a lament about a pitiable party that can’t put a win together and shouldn’t even try. Eventually, the Democrats will win a bigger following, or the Republicans will fritter away their advantage, or both. The argument over pendulum swings is a matter of when, and not if. That’s why Texas Republicans made sure they had people on the ballot in as many statewide races as possible throughout the 1980s, when Democrats dominated.

Until the Republicans broke through, stories like this were about them. So Paul Sadler can believe he’ll be the one to win the United States Senate race. It’s not impossible that Dale Henry will succeed in his latest effort to become a Texas railroad commissioner, or that Keith Hampton could be the next presiding judge on the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. It’s a question of when the Democrats will break out.

Their job is to change hearts and minds, and they know it.

The candidates who make you scratch your head are those whose chances were determined not by voters’ philosophical swings but by the preferences of the party in power. Two-thirds of the candidates for the Texas House face no major opposition in November. Thank redistricting, which protects politicians from the other party’s voters. Only about a dozen races are truly competitive, in the sense that either party might win.
307 2012-08-12 Jean Merrill, a children’s author best known for her 1964 book, “The Pushcart War,” about street peddlers in New York who use (nonlethal) guerrilla tactics and savvy publicity maneuvers to fight back when unbridled Big Business threatens to banish their pushcarts from the streets — a book, in other words, that Mother Jones or Saul Alinsky might have produced had they been writers of whimsical allegories — died on Aug. 2 at her home in Randolph, Vt. She was 89.

The cause was cancer, said a nephew, Larry Gilbert.

Ms. Merrill wrote more than 30 books and a dozen scripts for animated television adaptations of her work. Almost all involved underdogs overcoming the odds. In some of her most popular books, the odds amount to nothing less than the established economic and social order.

Beginning in 1951 with her first book, “Henry the Hand-Painted Mouse,” about an artistic mouse seeking self-fulfillment in a rat-race world, Ms. Merrill created books noted for their humanitarian worldview, complex plots and huge casts of characters, which always included a host of fellow underdogs with whom her protagonist could make common cause.

With their unabashed embrace of cultural diversity and the rights of individuals, and their populist distrust of big business, Ms. Merrill’s stories became popular in many public school classrooms in the 1960s, and were frequently adapted for school plays.

One of her most popular books, “The Toothpaste Millionaire,” (1972), which was adapted for television in 1974, was about an African-American boy who starts a homemade toothpaste business and successfully blocks the best efforts of Corporate Toothpaste to crush him.
308 2012-08-12 Even so, he says, long-term investors must hold stocks, because risky as the market may be, it is still likely to produce better returns than the alternatives.

“Wise investors won’t try to outsmart the market,” he says. “They’ll buy index funds for the long term, and they’ll diversify.

“But diversify into what? They need alternatives, bonds, for the most part. What’s so frightening right now is that the alternatives to equities are so poor.”

In the financial crises of the last several years, he says, investors have flocked to seemingly safe government bonds, driving up prices and driving down yields. The Federal Reserve and other central banks have been pushing down interest rates, too.

But low yields today predict low returns later, he says, and “the outlook for bonds over the next decade is really terrible.”

Dark as this outlook may be, he says, people need to “stay the course” if they are to have hope of buying homes or putting children through college or retiring in comfort.

He is still preaching the gospel of long-term, low-cost investing. “My ideas are very simple,” he says: “In investing, you get what you don’t pay for. Costs matter. So intelligent investors will use low-cost index funds to build a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds, and they will stay the course. And they won’t be foolish enough to think that they can consistently outsmart the market.”

Still, because the market and the economy are deeply troubled, it’s time for action on many fronts, he says: “We’ve really got no choice. We’ve got to fix this system. All of us, as individuals, need to do it.”

That’s the message of his latest and 11th book, “The Clash of the Cultures: Investment vs. Speculation” (Wiley & Sons, $29.95). It offers a scathing critique of the financial services industry and updated guidance for investors. “A culture of short-term speculation has run rampant,” he writes, “superseding the culture of long-term investment that was dominant earlier in the post-World War II era.”

Too much money is aimed at short-term speculation — the seeking of quick profit with little concern for the future. The financial system has been wounded by a flood of so-called innovations that merely promote hyper-rapid trading, market timing and shortsighted corporate maneuvering. Individual investors are being shortchanged, he writes.

Corporate money is flooding into political campaigns. The American retirement system faces a train wreck. America’s fundamental values are threatened. Mr. Bogle remains a dyed-in-the-wool capitalist but says the system has “gotten out of balance,” threatening our entire society. “You can always count on Americans to do the right thing — after they’ve tried everything else,” he says, quoting Winston Churchill. Now, he says, it’s time to try something else.

He advocates taxes to discourage short-term speculation. He wants limits on leverage, transparency for financial derivatives, stricter punishments for financial crimes and, perhaps most urgently, a unified fiduciary standard for all money managers: “A fiduciary standard means, basically, put the interests of the client first. No excuses. Period.”

Those clients — the ordinary people to whom he has always appealed — need to protect themselves from peril, he says: “In an ideal world, Adam Smith-like, individuals would recognize what they need to do in their own self-interest, and they will make changes happen and look after themselves.”

MR. BOGLE sometimes disagrees with current Vanguard management, but he remains proud of the company he created. Index funds are ever more popular, and Vanguard is gushing money, torrents of it. Thanks largely to its various index funds, Vanguard, which is based near Valley Forge, Pa., pulled in a net $87.7 billion in cash this year through June, excluding money market funds. That’s nearly 40 percent of the cash flow of the entire mutual fund industry.

Burton Malkiel, the Princeton economist and author of “A Random Walk Down Wall Street,” says: “Index funds are so popular now that it’s easy to forget how courageous and tenacious Jack Bogle was in starting them. They were called Bogle’s Folly because all they did was replicate the returns of the market. But, of course, that’s a great deal. In the academic world many people saw the wisdom of this — but Jack is the guy who actually made it happen.”

Mr. Bogle also tried to ensure that Vanguard funds would always be cheap to buy and hold. While Vanguard is his baby, he has never had an ownership stake in it aside from the shares he holds in its mutual funds. Vanguard fund shareholders own the place collectively because he planned it that way.

“Strategy follows structure,” he says, explaining that with no parent company or private owners to siphon profits, Vanguard can keep costs lower than anyone else. That was always his goal. “The only way anyone can really compete with us on costs is to adopt a mutual ownership structure,” he says. “I’ve been waiting all these years for someone to do it, but no one has.”

One reason is surely that there’s no profit in it. Despite Vanguard’s size and success, Mr. Bogle is no billionaire. For comparison, Forbes lists the personal wealth of Edward C. Johnson 3rd, the chairman of Fidelity, as $5.8 billion. By contrast, Mr. Bogle says his own wealth is in the “low double-digit millions.” Most of it is in Vanguard and Wellington mutual funds in which he invested via payroll deduction during his long career.

During his peak earning years at Vanguard, he regularly gave half his salary to charities, including two alma maters — the Blair Academy, a prep school in Blairstown, N.J., and Princeton University. He was a scholarship student at both, holding down part-time jobs to help pay his way. At Princeton, in a senior thesis, he sketched the rough outlines of the cost-cutting, shareholder-serving company that would become Vanguard.

Mr. Bogle continues to make donations to several causes. “My only regret about money is that I don’t have more to give away,” he says.

WHILE he has no operational role at Vanguard, he hasn’t entirely left it. He works on its campus, heading the Bogle Financial Markets Research Center, a small research institute that provides him with a bully pulpit, which he tries to use in the energetic mode of his hero, Theodore Roosevelt. “There aren’t many of us Roosevelt Republicans left,” he said.

Mr. Bogle may be a Republican, but he voted for Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, and plans to vote for Mr. Obama again. He says government regulation of the financial industry is insufficient, and he endorses the Volcker Rule, named for his friend, Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, who says regulated banks shouldn’t be making risky bets with their own money.

Mr. Volcker, in turn, embraces Mr. Bogle’s critique of the financial services industry. At a public forum held in Manhattan last winter to celebrate Mr. Bogle’s legacy, Mr. Volcker said that the only unequivocally good financial innovation out of Wall Street in the last 25 years was the bank A.T.M. (If he went back 40 years, Mr. Volcker said, he would include Mr. Bogle’s invention of the index fund.) And Mr. Volcker said that a unified fiduciary standard “is an excellent solution.”

The research institute is financed by Vanguard but is independent, allowing Mr. Bogle to write books and make fiery speeches that sometimes differ from Vanguard policies.

At the moment, for example, he supports a crucial part of a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal to tighten rules on money market funds. “Investors shouldn’t be misled into believing these funds are as safe as a bank account,” he says. “They’re not.”

In 2008, one fund, Reserve Primary, “broke the buck,” falling below the $1-a-share asset value that money market funds have traditionally maintained. That set off a panic and the government intervened. To prevent future crises, Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, would require funds to let their net asset values float — so that $1 invested in a fund might be worth 99 cents.

Vanguard sides with other big firms like Charles Schwab and Fidelity in trying to block the proposal, which is set for a vote on Aug. 29. Allowing shares to float would “require significant, and expensive, changes” and would put off investors, many of whom would shift assets from firms like Vanguard into banks, Vanguard said in a filing.

Mr. Bogle sides with Ms. Schapiro and differs with Vanguard on that point. “A lot of things that are disruptive have to be done anyway, and this is one of them,” he says. “Mary Schapiro has a lot of courage in trying to do it.”

MR. BOGLE moved to the institute after leaving the company’s board in 1999 amid a conflict with John J. Brennan, his handpicked successor and second in command. Mr. Brennan, who has said little about the issue in public and declined to comment for this article, has since been succeeded by F. William McNabb III.

Mr. Bogle’s health was precarious in the 1990s. By 1996, when he relinquished his role as C.E.O. to Mr. Brennan, he had already had at least six heart attacks and was mortally ill, according to two people then at Vanguard. “At that point Jack Bogle couldn’t walk slowly across a room without getting out of breath,” one of those officials said. “Jack’s heart was failing. Either he’d get a transplant or basically have to say goodbye to the world.”

The transplant in early 1996 was spectacularly successful. “Physically, Jack was born again,” the official said. “That was wonderful. But it made things very complicated at Vanguard.”

Mr. Bogle had hired Mr. Brennan in 1982, and they worked together amicably for more than a decade. “The two Jacks are very different types,” said one Vanguard veteran, speaking on condition of anonymity because the issue is still sensitive within the company. “Jack Brennan is Mr. Inside, an operations man who doesn’t particularly like talking to journalists, and Jack Bogle is Mr. Outside, the ultimate marketer.” For a long while, it seemed to be a good match.

But things changed after Mr. Bogle returned with a new heart and renewed vigor. Now with the title of “senior chairman,” Mr. Bogle found that he disagreed with some of Mr. Brennan’s decisions, and said so openly. He criticized Mr. Brennan’s interest in starting narrowly focused sector equity funds. Mr. Bogle also worried that Vanguard was beginning to emphasize the sale of funds through investment advisers, these people said. Direct sales to investors had been a principal low-cost innovation in the company’s early days.

In 1999, as tensions rose, Mr. Bogle was asked to leave the board at the mandatory age of 70. “I thought there would be an exception for the company’s founder,” he says. The dispute became public, and the board offered to let Mr. Bogle extend his term. But he moved to the new research institute, which has been his base ever since.

Several Vanguard insiders say that after this, Mr. Brennan habitually walked past his former boss, rather than say hello. Journalists witnessed such scenes. Today, Mr. Bogle says he is puzzled by Mr. Brennan’s behavior.

Soon, contrary to Mr. Bogle’s advice, Vanguard began selling exchange-traded funds, or E.T.F.’s — index funds that may be bought or sold throughout the trading day. For years, Mr. Bogle had opposed this move, saying E.T.F.’s enable frequent trading, which generally hurts individual investors. He compared the innovation to “giving an arsonist a match.”

Now Mr. Bogle says that some E.T.F.’s, like those that mimic core Vanguard index funds, are fine if used carefully by buy-and-hold investors or by institutional investors for specific purposes. But he warns that they are dangerous for investors because many E.T.F.’s track relatively obscure sections of the market and all of them encourage the propensity to trade rapidly — “to speculate, rather than invest.”

In a telephone interview, Mr. McNabb, Vanguard’s current chief executive and chairman, wouldn’t comment on the Brennan-Bogle relationship. He praised both men, saying, for example, that Mr. Brennan’s introduction of E.T.F.’s expanded Vanguard’s influence and, therefore, Mr. Bogle’s legacy.

“We revere Jack Bogle here,” Mr. McNabb said. “Everybody can quote his sayings. He laid out a vision for the company and set up an ownership structure unlike anything the industry had ever seen.”

Mr. McNabb added: “We live and breathe the fact that we’re client-owned, that we’re built for the long-term, and that we serve only one constituency, our clients, who are also our owners. That’s all Jack Bogle.”

For his part, Mr. Bogle says the company embodies his ideas. Current executives are making “hard decisions and doing a good job and doing it very sincerely.” But, he adds, “I think it’s good that I have an independent voice.”

ON the Vanguard campus, on a lawn near the cafeteria, stands a 7-foot-high bronze statue of Mr. Bogle.

He is sheepish about it. “I’m not sure we should’ve done it, but there it is,” he says. “It’s a good likeness, isn’t it?”

Indeed, it is. Thomas J. Warren, the sculptor who created it in 1996, said the Vanguard board commissioned the statue when Mr. Bogle was ill, and that he became stronger as work proceeded.

“Mr. Bogle was very humble about it,” Mr. Warren says. “I went out to his house to ‘live cast’ his face one day, and I was late. He was dressed for a board meeting, but he was very gracious and got down on the kitchen floor, and we made the mold.” Mr. Bogle asked him not to prettify his image. “Mr. Bogle has arthritis, but he told me to go ahead and show him the way he really is, so the fingers on the statue are gnarled.”

One day earlier this year in the company cafeteria — the “galley,” as it’s called at the nautically themed Vanguard — Mr. Bogle ordered a grilled cheese sandwich and chatted with an endless stream of young well-wishers. On the walls were murals embellished with quotations from his speeches:

“Success must not be bought but earned.” And, of course, there is another, which may be his favorite. “Stay the course,” Mr. Bogle says.
309 2012-08-12 The Hulas’ chief, perhaps only, competitors are Insidethegames, another Web-based publication, and Sport Intern, a newsletter written by Karl-Heinz Huba in Germany that is e-mailed to officials. (“There’s Huba and there’s Hula,” Ed Hula said. “That’s led to some confusion over the years.”)

Around the Rings posts four to five articles a day when the Olympics are not under way. When the Games are in session, that number increases to as many as 10, along with a print newsletter that the Hulas personally deliver to the hotel where officials of the International Olympic Committee are staying.

“The I.O.C. members say they hear stuff about the I.O.C. on our site before they hear it from the I.O.C.,” Hula said. “That’s the way I like it.”

Because of their hyperspecialized audience, the Hulas can charge $1,750 to $7,500 for advertisements from bid cities and governing bodies. Their site gets more than 200,000 unique visitors a month, they said, and traffic spiked in July 2011 when the I.O.C. voted for the host city for the 2018 Winter Games. (Pyeongchang, South Korea, won the bid.) The advertising sales staff is separate from editorial, the Hulas said.

“I make it very clear throughout the process that I am not involved in editorial coverage and have little to no input into editorial,” Sheila Hula, the publisher, said. “Other than reviewing for factual errors. In the case of bid cities, I have someone else handle those sales so as to add some distance.”

Around the Rings makes 60 percent of its money through advertisements on the site and 40 percent through subscription fees, they said, declining to say how many subscribers they had. A yearly corporate subscription costs $495, $315 for an individual.

“We really try not to cater to them,” Ed Hula said about the companies that pay for advertising on the site. “We try to be fair and balanced in our coverage.”

They occasionally accept free hotel rooms, flights and meals. “We exercise common sense,” Hula said. “And we’re not recipients of largess.”

Sheila Hula said, “Generally speaking, we cover our own costs, which comes to a very healthy six figures every year.”

The Hulas met while working on a travel show at CNN in Atlanta. The Olympic-reporting fever began in the lead-up to the 1996 Atlanta Games, in the late 1980s.

“There was electricity,” Hula said, recalling the day the Atlanta bid was announced. “It was like a bolt of lightning hit the group at the same time. That’s the spark that started it for me.”

He added, “It was one of those moments when you knew your life had changed.”

By 1992, Hula had quit a radio job and began covering the Games full time as a freelancer for different domestic and international outlets.

One of his regular features was a biweekly column about the Games that appeared in a friend’s politics magazine. He spun that column, called the Hula Report, into a printed newsletter, but he maintained his work as a radio freelancer.

“The Hula Report would not have put food on the table,” he said.

In 1996, a primitive version of a Web site began. Soon, the newsletter became a weekly and was sent to Olympic insiders. Hula rented space in downtown Atlanta and hired three people. The venture was rebranded as Around the Rings. In 1997, Sheila Hula left CNN and joined her husband. She has all but forbidden Olympic-themed merchandise in their home.

“We love it,” she said. “But we need a break.”

In the late 1990s, Sheila Hula received the fax bill for Around the Rings: $5,000. “We’re e-mailing it from then on,” she said.

By 2001, Around the Rings was a Web-based publication, and in full ascent as an influential platform for anyone involved with the biggest sporting event in the world. When Sochi was vying to win the bid for the 2014 Winter Games, Hula was seated in the front row of a news conference, next to Vladimir V. Putin, then in his first term as the president of Russia.

“How amazing is that?” said Jon Tibbs, a bid consultant now working with the Sochi Games, adding that Putin personally requested the seating arrangement.

“When one Games ends,” Ed Hula said, “another one begins.”
310 2012-08-12 The announcement, which had been kept secret by the Romney campaign until the final hours, opened a weekend tour of swing states that is to continue on Sunday in and Wisconsin. The candidates and their families are traveling together to showcase the new partnership, which they branded “America’s Comeback Team.”

For Mr. Romney, the decision is one of the boldest moves of his presidential candidacy, which has been guided by a do-no-harm strategy. It promised to energize conservatives, who had been eagerly lobbying for Mr. Ryan and who see his budget as the key to unlocking the economy’s potential for growth.

Mr. Obama, who has frequently sparred with Mr. Ryan, waved to reporters as he left the White House on Saturday but did not answer questions about his Republican rivals. But his advisers said he was surprised by the decision. His campaign and the seized on the choice and sought to define the Republican ticket in stark terms, as two men who would strip health coverage for retirees and favor the wealthy.

As Mr. Ryan addressed a crowd of more than 2,000 admirers in Norfolk, he said that the nation was on an “unsustainable path” and that Republicans would not be deterred by what he said were Democratic scare tactics. It was the largest stage yet for Mr. Ryan, a native of Janesville, Wis., who was elected to Congress at age 28 and has supported some of the spending measures that helped contribute to the deficit deplored by conservatives.

“The commitment Mitt Romney and I make to you is this,” Mr. Ryan said, smiling broadly during much of his address. “We won’t duck the tough issues; we will lead. We won’t blame others; we will take responsibility. And we won’t replace our founding principles; we will reapply them.”

In introducing Mr. Ryan, Mr. Romney mistakenly called him “the next president of the .” He left the stage, but quickly returned to correct himself, saying, “Every now and then I tend to make a mistake, but I did not make a mistake with this guy.” Mr. Ryan, who had been urged by conservatives to run for president, called Mr. Romney “the right man to lead America back to prosperity and greatness.” He criticized the Obama administration and declared: “We’re in a different, and dangerous, moment. We’re running out of time — and we can’t afford four more years of this.”

The selection of Mr. Ryan means that this campaign is the first in 80 years in which no candidate of either major political party has served in the military. Mr. Romney, a Mormon, and Mr. Ryan, a Catholic, also represent a new era in presidential politics: neither are Protestants.

The two men share an easy rapport and a love of PowerPoint presentations and policy details.

In choosing his running mate, Mr. Romney was looking to elevate a presidential race with a candidate most likely to provide the biggest jolt. It is a gamble, his aides acknowledged, but one they believe is far less risky than Senator ’s selection of four years ago. Several advisers said that as the author of the party’s central budgetary approach, Mr. Ryan helped make their campaign look “big,” after months of running a race remarkably absent of specific policy proposals.

But in making his choice, Mr. Romney took political ownership of a budget that even some Republicans worry could be a liability in November. Mr. Ryan has proposed sweeping changes in entitlement programs like and Medicare, which insure more than 100 million people and whose costs account for more than one-fifth of the federal budget. The selection suggested that Mr. Romney has settled on a strategy of maximizing his support among conservatives rather than trying to win over independent and centrist voters.

While Mr. Romney has pledged to “protect Medicare and ,” his embrace of Mr. Ryan makes it difficult to distance himself from the well-established plans of his running mate. But the campaign suggested it would try to draw a distinction on Medicare, distributing talking points to Republicans that included the question, “Does this mean Mitt Romney is adopting the Paul Ryan plan?” (The answer: He applauds it “for going in the right direction” but will be putting together his own budget.)

A budget debate that has largely resided in Washington suddenly exploded into bigger view with Mr. Ryan’s selection. Democrats seemed just as exuberant with the choice as Republicans. Mr. Obama’s campaign manager, Jim Messina, argued that the Republican ticket “would end Medicare as we know it,” a preview of the messages that will play out in what will be the most expensive presidential campaign in history.

The announcement concluded a four-month search, conducted in public and private, with Mr. Romney inviting governors and members of Congress to campaign at his side to gauge his comfort with them. Recently, conservative leaders have loudly urged Mr. Romney to pick Mr. Ryan, but most Republicans assumed Mr. Romney would go with someone seen as safer.

Advisers said Saturday that Mr. Romney had called Mr. Ryan with his offer on Aug. 1, almost immediately upon arriving home from a trip to , and . That detail, which was confirmed by an associate close to Mr. Ryan, deflated speculation that Mr. Romney made his choice in reaction to an outcry that broke out last week, most notably on the editorial page of The , which argued forcefully on behalf of Mr. Ryan.

Mr. Romney called the other finalists on Friday evening, aides said, and thanked them for their cooperation in the vetting process and their help with his campaign. He did not tell them his choice, but word began spreading overnight that Mr. Ryan had emerged as the lone contender.

, the former governor of , who was passed over four years ago by Senator John McCain, wished Mr. Ryan well on Saturday. Senator of , who was also seen as a top prospect, said Mr. Ryan was a “great choice.”

The selection was announced as Mr. Romney moves into a critical period leading to his nomination at the Republican National Convention in , Fla., at the end of the month. His standing in several battleground states has fallen over the summer, after an aggressive effort by the Obama campaign to define him on their terms. Republicans hoped the vice-presidential announcement would start the race anew, as well as help make Mr. Ryan’s native Wisconsin more competitive.

But Mr. Ryan will face questions about his readiness to be president. He has no foreign policy experience and has not spent significant time in the private sector, but the Romney campaign is counting on his youthful charisma and intellect to sustain him through a bruising presidential campaign.

“We’re not going to besmirch the office of the presidency by succumbing to the kind of attacks and vile charges that are coming from the Democrats,” Mr. Romney said during a stop in , Va., as he and Mr. Ryan campaigned across the state.

The choice heartened senior Republicans, some of whom have worried that Mr. Romney’s campaign has become mired in the often small back-and-forth with the Obama campaign without asserting a positive vision.

“He had two decisions to make: Governing or political, and bold or comfortable,” , the Republican strategist, said Saturday. “And he decided to go governing and bold.”

Mr. Romney’s rapport with Mr. Ryan was on display again on Saturday as they locked arms after walking out to the soaring of the film soundtrack. Mr. Romney wore a tie without a jacket and Mr. Ryan wore a jacket without a tie.

Mr. Romney, who is not known for his warmth, patted Mr. Ryan on the back 10 times. When Mr. Ryan finished his remarks, Mr. Romney whispered a word into his ear. he said.
311 2012-08-12 BEFORE there was Hammerstein, there was Hart. The lyricist Lorenz Hart collaborated with Richard Rodgers on more than 800 songs and more than two dozen Broadway musicals until just before his death, in 1943.

Readers will be grateful that Gary Marmorstein, who writes about film, theater and popular music, has resuscitated Hart, also known as Larry, in riveting detail in his “A Ship Without a Sail: The Life of Lorenz Hart” (Simon & Schuster, $30).

“Like tobacco or alcohol,” Mr. Marmorstein writes, “a tune, Rodgers said, was a stimulant to Larry — he needed it to get started.”

Once he got started, he kept going. The tortured genius wrote his way out of Harlem, where he was born. His enormous output includes the lyrics for “The Lady Is a Tramp,” “My Funny Valentine,” “Blue Moon” and “Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered.” The credits and permissions alone fill eight pages at the end of the book.

“No other lyricist has ranged so intelligently — or emotionally — between the extremes of enthralling new romance and lonely, unforgiving desolation,” Mr. Marmorstein writes. This dark current took a toll. After suffering from depression and drinking heavily, Hart died of pneumonia at 48.
312 2012-08-12 Things weren’t going well for sincerity even before Hallmark strip-mined it down to muck. Lionel Trilling pronounced it dead some 40 years ago. Snark and irony have long had more cultural cachet. Among its many pitfalls is that the more you seek or proclaim it, the less sincere you seem. (Only politicians have yet to get the message.) Another small problem: if people truly did say what was in their hearts on a regular basis, marriages would rupture, friendships would founder and no one would ever sit through a faculty meeting again.

None of this dissuades R. Jay Magill Jr., whose “Sincerity” wrests a surprisingly dramatic story out of what otherwise seems like wrung-out idiom. Fortuitously for Magill, the word has colorful origins: its first recorded English use was in 1533 by the Protestant reformer John Frith, shortly before being burned at the stake for asserting the primacy of individual conscience over church dogma. Frith, who becomes the charred mascot of Magill’s story, was praising the “sincere life” of the 14th-century heretic John Wycliffe, vilified in his own day for translating the Latin Bible into English. (The word had previously referred only to the purity of physical things, not people, derived from the Latin sincerus — substances that were whole and unadulterated.) Magill skillfully hurtles us back to these ­Reformation-era brutalities, and it’s fascinating to be reminded, in this age of rampant self-absorption, that something as seemingly quiescent as introspection was once a radical endeavor.

The exaltation of the inner voice ushered a new kind of person onto the historical stage, the modern individual. It also accompanied the end of the traditional social order: with capitalist expansion, upward mobility and the anonymity of cities came new public spaces like salons where you were likely to encounter people you didn’t know. New forms of concealment became fashionable (wigs, rouge, fans, manners), and social life, bogged down by “byzantine rules,” had become an “elaborate lie.” Knowing whether someone was bona fide — the real thing — newly mattered.

Soon the Romantic era arrived, piloted by Jean-Jacques Rousseau and his autobiography, “Confessions,” which Magill describes as, “an attempt to write the most sincere work ever written.” But with the secularization of sincerity — Rousseau was trumpeting the truth of himself for Art, not God — another of sincerity’s drawbacks became evident: it can be annoyingly self-­congratulatory. Voltaire and Diderot thought Rousseau was an ass: “The man is artificial from head to foot; his mind and soul are wholly artificial,” Voltaire sniped. The new penchant for self-­examination was simultaneously a driving force and a losing battle. As Freud would later announce to the world, the self is too irrevocably split to ever truly know what it’s up to.

Also, a rival idiom had been winning ground since the end of the 18th century: irony. Not long after Romanticism jumped an ocean, taking up American citizenship in the works of Emerson and Thoreau, ironists and skeptics from Nietzsche to Shaw (“It is dangerous to be sincere, unless you are also stupid”) were massing, joined by aesthetes, dandies, flâneurs and of course, Oscar Wilde, whose very existence was one prolonged protest against meaning what you say. Still, Magill sees the contest as not quite settled, exhuming sincerity from even its most ardent critics. He argued a similar point in his previous book, “Chic Ironic Bitterness,” to which “Sincerity” forms a companion volume — the skeptical worldview secretly preserves the ideals of integrity and honesty rather than contesting them. Cynics are disappointed romantics; ironists are closet sentimentalists.

The “x is just the flip side of y” move may come a little easily, though. It also works to minimize the stakes of the question. In Trilling’s 1972 “Sincerity and Authenticity,” the stakes were nothing less than the fate of the modern self. “Now and then it is possible to observe the moral life in the process of revising itself,” was the large claim with which he opened this rather short book. From the 1960s to the 1970s there was actually a surge of books and essays on the cult of sincerity, Magill points out. But Trilling’s book also belongs to another cohort of roughly the same moment — Herbert Marcuse’s “One-Dimensional Man” (1964), Philip Rieff’s “Triumph of the Therapeutic” (1966), Richard Sennett’s “Fall of Public Man” (1977), Christopher Lasch’s “Culture of Narcissism” (1979) — variously anguished accounts of how the totality of character structure was, at that moment, being drastically transformed. These are books written as though their authors were personally witnessing a cataclysm. “One culture is dying while no other gains enough power to be born,” Rieff wrote. “This book describes a way of life that is dying,” Lasch laments. The ground is shifting under their feet; they’re groping their way through the accumulated rubble of modernity, trying to make sense of the jarring new social types being hatched. Reading them, even now, you feel the urgency in your bones.
313 2012-08-12 In 1974 I served as a visiting professor of neurology in Shiraz, Iran, and saw a village health program there in action. I saw, for example, a 26-year-old woman, with 6 months’ training, correctly diagnose and manage respiratory infections, trachoma, cervical disc disease, and listen as a resident reviewed her deliveries and other events of the week. All of those involved in Mississippi’s program, from Dr. Aaron Shirley to Prof. Mohammad Shahbazi, deserve credit for recognizing how Iran’s program can apply to people in their state. The fact that Atlantic City and Camden, N.J., have also successfully used similar approaches illustrates its potential applicability in many locations. DONALD SILBERBERG, M.D. Professor and chairman emeritus, Neurology Department, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia

Suzy Hansen’s article about what Mississippi could learn from Iran about health care delivery made good sense. But by mentioning our system of community health centers (C.H.C.’s) only in passing, she overlooks an infrastructure that is already in place in the United States, one that is succeeding in accomplishing many of the goals of the Iranian “health house” system she touts. As Hansen points out, there are more than 8,000 C.H.C.’s operating in America, serving a patient population that looks much like that of Mississippi: disproportionately poor, uninsured, with many of the same chronic — and thus expensive — illnesses. And yet the C.H.C.’s’ costs in treating this population are significantly lower than that of traditional settings, like doctors’ offices and hospitals. One way the C.H.C.’s are increasingly achieving these savings are through health care homes, a comprehensive approach much like that of the Iranian health houses, absent the home visits, which Hansen convincingly argues are a key part of making this work. In other words, we don’t need to start from scratch here. The C.H.C.’s are already most of the way toward the model described in the piece, and with more support, that could go further. Unfortunately, and despite the fact that such support was built into the Affordable Care Act, Congressional budget hawks and conservative governors are pushing the other way. JARED BERNSTEIN, Economist, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Washington

Why did the magazine feel the need to create shock (“You read that correctly — Iran”) and drama (“broken and desperate place — Iran”)? According to Unicef, Iran’s adult literacy rate from 2005 to 2010 was 85 percent; the male and female literacy rate for 15- to 24-year-olds was 99 percent. Iran is not a nation of uneducated, sad people. It is a proud, (mostly) modern society that happens to be currently run, unfortunately, by an insane leader. CAROLYN YASHARI BECHER, Los Angeles

On the same day that I read the article about the Aleppo Codex, I read about the worry in Israel about being bombed. It strikes me that the Aleppo Codex could be better off alongside the Elgin marbles in the British Museum, or in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. JAY M. PASACHOFF, Pasadena, Calif.

CAYMANS, HERE WE COME

As far as U.S. individuals are concerned, no one has yet demonstrated to me that there’s some kind of pandemic of rich people opening offshore accounts. In England, where I come from, it’s reasonably commonplace for individuals to have bank accounts in Jersey. And in Germany, likewise, lots of middle-class families keep money in Luxembourg or Lichtenstein. But in the U.S., by contrast, I see no day-to-day indication that offshore accounts are a remotely common tax-avoidance strategy.

Insofar as there is a problem, it seems to me, the problem is with tax collection and enforcement, rather than with the complexity of U.S. tax legislation. Yes, the U.S. tax code is ridiculously complex and riddled with loopholes that ought to be abolished. But I think it’s actually pretty good when it comes to individuals’ offshore assets. FELIX SALMON, posted on blogs.reuters.com
314 2012-08-12 The principal owner of the , , is something of a mysterious character. What’s it like being interviewed by a 6-foot-8 Russian oligarch? 

I asked him at the end, If I get this job, do you want me to call you with reports or send you e-mails? And Mikhail goes, You can, but I don’t have a cellphone and I don’t have a laptop.

Do you ever hear from , who is a minority owner? 

A lot of times he’ll shoot me an e-mail with questions. The first time I got an e-mail from him was pretty cool. Jay-Z sent you an e-mail.

What does he typically want to know? 

How he can help. When Deron Williams was making his decision, he was struggling for a place to live. Jay-Z goes, “Tell him I’ll call him tomorrow and I’ll help.” It’s a lot about being able to relate to being wealthy, being young, being African-American. He can relate to them where maybe I can’t or Mikhail can’t.

You were president of the when went on his famous rant at a news conference, responding to criticism that he was skipping practice. What was the back story? 

 had said he couldn’t coach Allen anymore. Allen said he couldn’t play for Larry, so they had a meeting to clear the air. After the meeting, I thought, Let’s do a press conference so that everybody knows they’re on one page. We did the press conference, and it becomes legendary. You can go online. Everybody imitates it.

It went on for half an hour on live TV. How did you feel? 

I called Ed Snider and resigned because I said, This is a disaster. Later, Ed said you’re not resigning. I went to the Palm, had some Scotch, and I’m thinking, both of these guys are making a lot more money than I am, they’re in a good situation and this is what I’m dealing with.

Years ago, you said you aspired to be governor of a state, and your friend talked about how you’d someday be ’s mayor. Has the political ship sailed for you? 

I don’t think so.
315 2012-08-13 Todd Akin, the Republican candidate challenging Senator Claire McCaskill in Missouri, is described as "way out of Missouri's mainstream."...
316 2012-08-13 Ms. Brown, 90, ran Cosmopolitan for more than three decades, giving the magazine the sexually frank tone it was known for....
317 2012-08-13 Links for the dogs days of summer....
318 2012-08-13 Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, who has been absent from Congress since June 10, is being treated for "bipolar II depression," the Mayo Clinic said in a statement on his behalf....
319 2012-08-13 Jared Stafford-Hill has revamped the menu at the restaurant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn...
320 2012-08-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
321 2012-08-13 The National Football League is hoping to appeal to fans of both fashion and professional football with its revamped women's apparel line....
322 2012-08-13 "Life of Pi," Ang Lee's adaptation of the best-selling novel, will kick off the 50th edition of the New York Film Festival....
323 2012-08-13 The company that will be spun off, to be called Zoetis, has about $4.2 billion in annual revenue and could be valued at $15 billion or more....
324 2012-08-13 The crush at Heathrow and T.S.A. complaints and approval in our weekly capsule of travel news....
325 2012-08-13 As it seeks to reinvent Motorola, Google cuts jobs. | Britain cleans up and tallies its tab after the Olympics....
326 2012-08-13 Recent decisions by the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission may turn out to be the denouement of the government’s investigations of Wall Street for potential wrongdoing that contributed to the financial crisis....
327 2012-08-13 As it seeks to reinvent Motorola, Google cuts jobs. | Britain cleans up and tallies its tab after the Olympics.
328 2012-08-13 Five-minute films will be assembled into a larger work by Jenle Hallund, a Danish director who has worked with Mr. von Trier....
329 2012-08-13 Big sport can sometimes get tangled up with big politics, and the just-ended Olympic Games in London was no exception....
330 2012-08-13 The cranberry-colored lip, which was all over fall runways, is surprisingly versatile and works with most skin tones....
331 2012-08-13 Researchers have tried for over a year to track down FinFisher, an elusive spyware product manufactured by the Gamma Group, a British surveillance firm....
332 2012-08-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
333 2012-08-13 Prompted by the end of publication of Bird Talk, with its small but devoted audience, a question for readers: What was your most bittersweet magazine loss?...
334 2012-08-13 The Swiss bank has agreed to buy Bank of America Merrill Lynch's private banking operations outside the United States, the latest consolidation move in the private banking industry....
335 2012-08-13 Also: the price of pizza, how Whole Foods gets social media right, and this week's question: Will your business accept mobile payments this year?...
336 2012-08-13 Barnes & Noble cut prices on three models of its Nook e-reader and tablet devices on Sunday, ahead of the peak of back-to-school shopping and amid speculation that its rival, Amazon.com, was preparing to introduce a new version of its Kindle Fire tablet.

Barnes & Noble, the largest American bookstore chain, said it had reduced the retail price of its Nook tablet with 16 gigabytes of memory to $199, from $249.

The company also shaved $20 off its eight-gigabyte model, to $179. And Barnes & Noble lowered the price of its Nook Color by $20, to $149.

The new prices went into effect on Sunday.

The Nook has given the chain 27 percent of the American market for e-books, Barnes & Noble has said. Amazon is the market leader with about 60 percent of e-book and e-reader sales.

Despite the popularity of the Nook devices, Barnes & Noble has had to cut prices a number of times to compete with Amazon. Earlier price reductions ate into Barnes & Noble’s earnings.

The company, which has bet its future on e-books, reported lower-than-expected revenue in its fourth fiscal quarter and said Nook revenue fell 10.5 percent.
337 2012-08-13 WASHINGTON — An Army officer being promoted to brigadier general openly acknowledged her homosexuality on Friday by having her wife pin her star to her uniform, thus becoming the first openly gay officer of flag rank in the United States military.

The officer, Brig. Gen. Tammy S. Smith, 49, a 26-year veteran of the Army, was promoted in a ceremony at the women’s memorial at Arlington National Cemetery. The star was affixed by Tracey Hepner, who was a co-founder last year of the Military Partners and Families Coalition, which “provides support, resources, education and advocacy for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender military partners and their families,” according to its Web site.

The couple married in March 2012 in the District of Columbia.

The military dropped its “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy for gay service members on Sept. 20, 2011, after a change in federal law.

The Army said that General Smith was not available for an interview on Sunday. However, she said in a statement that the Defense Department had made sexual orientation a private matter, but that “participating with family in traditional ceremonies such as the promotion is both common and expected of a leader.”

Sue Fulton, a spokeswoman for OutServe, a two-year-old organization of lesbians and gay men in the military, said Sunday that it was “highly unlikely” that General Smith was the only gay officer of her rank. She called General Smith’s public acknowledgment significant.

“I would say that it’s important to recognize ‘the first,’ because then the next person doesn’t have to be first,” said Ms. Fulton, a 1980 West Point graduate. “Once we get over each ‘first,’ each hurdle of ‘Well, that’s never been done before,’ it makes it a nonissue going forward.”
338 2012-08-13 “It becomes a company perceived as vulnerable rather than invincible,” said David B. Yoffie, a Harvard Business School professor who sits on several technology company boards, though none that relate to or compete with Facebook.

Facebook executives say they remain focused on expanding. They declined to comment on the stock price, but in late July, in a conference call with analysts to discuss the second-quarter earnings, David Ebersman, the company’s chief financial officer, said he was “disappointed” in the stock dive. On Friday, Mr. Ebersman was in New York speaking to investors, current and potential.

One former Facebook employee, who did not want to be named because he did not want to damage his relationship with onetime co-workers, said he expected other employees to cash in their stock options as soon as they could, and predicted that the stock’s woes could make it difficult to retain and hire talent. He no longer owns Facebook stock.

The former employee pointed out that many of the company’s early big backers — including Peter Thiel, an original angel investor, and Accel Partners, one of its first venture capital investors — sold a hefty portion of their shares at the peak price.

, a co-founder and chief executive, sold a portion of his shares in the offering, to meet his bills, the company said. All told, the early backers sold over $9 billion in shares. They still own significant amounts.

Kevin Landis, chief investment officer of Firsthand Funds, an asset management firm, now has to weigh what to do with his piece of Facebook. Late last year, he bought what were then coveted Facebook shares on the private market. On average, his shares are now worth about two-thirds of what he paid. Under the purchase terms, he may not sell until late this year.

It’s not “a good feeling,” he said, but he added that he remained confident that with so many users and so much data about them, Facebook was destined to be the most lucrative advertising platform in the world.

“Right now there’s a separation between the people who bought in because it was hot and the people who believed it could be one of the most valuable franchises,” Mr. Landis added.

The company certainly was hot earlier this year. The public offering was pegged at a market value of over $100 billion. And the company’s growth figures seemed extremely alluring.

Facebook raised its user base at rocket speed since its start in 2004, to 845 million in February. Revenues swelled to nearly $4 billion in 2011 — nearly a fivefold increase in two years. Facebook was only beginning to figure out how to make money from the stream of personal data that its users reveal about themselves.

The company’s Wall Street debut was the biggest to come out of Silicon Valley, far bigger than ’s in 2004 or Netscape’s a decade earlier.

But Google did not set hard-to-beat expectations, and by the time it went public it had a sure way to make money. has typically set low expectations, and just as typically surpasses them.

After its early dip, Facebook’s stock rallied briefly in early June and settled at just under $30 by July. But in late July, it took a hit when , which makes games to play on Facebook and shares revenue with the company, reported weak earnings. The next morning, after Facebook’s own earnings report, its shares slid again.

In the end, the performance of the company is what will matter. Right now, Facebook’s immediate challenge is making money on mobile, where more than half its worldwide users are logging in. It has only recently and cautiously started advertising in the mobile arena. Regulatory scrutiny also continues to be a risk, depending on how the company handles user data.

After the earnings report, Facebook executives said their experiments in increasing revenue were bearing fruit. The chief operating officer, , said in the analysts’ call that Sponsored Stories, a form of Facebook advertising, was bringing in $1 million every day, half of which came from mobile users. Sponsored Stories turn a Facebook user’s “like” of a brand page into brand endorsements to his or her friends.

But Sponsored Stories are also the subject of a federal class-action suit in . A pending settlement could be costly.

The company reported that revenue increased 32 percent in the second quarter, to $1.18 billion, compared with 45 percent in the first quarter. From the second quarter of 2010, and in all of 2011, revenue expanded by 88 percent.

Ms. Sandberg said it would take more time for marketers to figure out Facebook. “It took a long time for the TV market for advertising to be understood,” she told analysts. “We are still in the learning curve.”

The morning after that earnings call, , the investment research firm, predicted that the stock would continue falling for the next several quarters and advised investors to buy only when it falls to $19.20.

The price has hovered near $20 since. Last week, Reed Hastings, the chief of and a Facebook board member, bought more than $1 million of shares, at an average price of $21.03.

Mr. Pachter said he had begun to detect anticipation. Some prospective investors are asking him: “When does it get stupid cheap?”
339 2012-08-13 In recalling the other five companies I begin, invidiously, by singling out three dancers. In Figures in Flight, 14-year-old Liam Appelson made an immediate impression by virtue not just of his coolly focused absorption, but also by the detail with which every part of his body, not least his feet, made his steps as real as possible. In Roschman Dance, Nolan McKew was outstanding not only for his handsome long-necked physique, but also for tiny points of dance style, as when his head kept turning from side to side in correspondence with his footwork. And in the Jamal Jackson Dance Company, the rhythmic keenness of Dana Thomas burst forth with marvelous intensity.

The two pieces that Jamal Jackson presented were the rhythmic highlights of the afternoon; the troupe’s works combine traditional African and modern Western styles of music and movement. “Space Coding” and “Mile 21” were both given on Saturday as barefoot dance trios; “Space Coding” was set to a score of syllabic phrases composed by Mr. Jackson, “Mile 21” to percussion music by the Berean Community Drumline. From the first, the nonstop intricacy of the meters raised the voltage. But “Space Coding” never took off because the joyless, even grim, performing manner of Mr. Jackson and his two colleagues — eyes, mouths and faces fixed in intense concentration — suggested that the sheer hard work of keeping those rhythms going was as much as they could manage.

Then in “Mile 21,” a more spatially complex work, Ms. Thomas hurtled on the scene, and the whole air onstage relaxed with her. The way she took command of the stage space and arrived with the beat was a great pleasure. Almost as good was her colleague Karina Ikezoe.

Figures in Flight, a contemporary youth dance company under the artistic direction of Susan Slotnick, comes from upstate New York. Its performers, all pleasingly trained and well organized, danced intricate patterns in “Labyrinth” (by Ms. Slotnick) and jazz jollities in “Untitled” (by Molly Rust). Mr. Appelson is this year’s only male. The stage climate is one of happy cooperation. While it’s fun to watch how the dances keep the performers lively, the choreography is otherwise unrewarding to the eye.

The six members of MoralesDance performed “Scenes” and “Piano Pieces,” both by Tony Morales. The general look of “Scenes” was one of jovial but relentless group symmetry; “Piano Pieces” was a series of duets, each different in format. Everything was commendable, nothing memorable.

“Stonehenge,” the sole offering of Phoenix Project Dance, went in for gymnastics, with five men and eight women (all wearing harnesses around their pelvises) lifting, swinging and throwing one another in applause-winning feats. Though the idiom uses aspects of ballet, the dancers’ way of extending a leg by way of a punctuation mark was anti-ballet; you felt no line of energy directed through the leg into the air, just the leg being made to look like a dead-end alley.

Sean Roschman’s “Lord of the Fly Girls” half told a story about adolescence, bullying and sexual attraction to music that opportunistically switched from Phutureprimitive to Bach to Pan-American and other types. Its two men and four women got to dance duets both homo- and heterosexual; one woman, facing the audience, licked her lips lasciviously before embarking on a lesbian duet. But the story kept dwindling into ritual and then into routine. Mr. McKew’s dancing did more for the choreography than it did for him or his colleagues.

Meanwhile, light passed through the plane trees. Nothing onstage matched that beauty.
340 2012-08-13 DeAndre McCullough, whose experiences as a 15-year-old drug dealer in Baltimore inspired the writer  David Simon  and the former police officer Edward Burns to feature him in the book '' The Corner: A Year in the Life of an Inner City Neighborhood...
341 2012-08-13 At nightclubs and festivals around the world, dance music is all about good times. But behind the scenes of this  increasingly lucrative and competitive sector  of the music business lie the same kinds of disputes over trademarks and exploitation ...
342 2012-08-13 Months after he arrived in Washington in 2009, Gary Gensler knew he had a big case.Huddled around his assistant's desk with a colleague, Mr. Gensler, then Wall Street's newest regulator, listened to a taped telephone call of two Barclays employees...
343 2012-08-14 The Frugal Traveler dreams big, proposing presidential fixes for nine travel-related issues....
344 2012-08-14 A new television spot from Representative Todd Akin, a Republican, calls the attacks leveled on behalf of his opponent, Senator Claire McCaskill, "misleading, deceptive, false."...
345 2012-08-14 The influence of Helen Gurley Brown, the former Cosmopolitan editor who died Monday at 90, extended widely across the culture, and was deeply felt in the world of magazines....
346 2012-08-14 Tiger Asia, a spinoff of Julian Robertson's Tiger Management, says it will return investor money, as it continues to face an insider trading investigation by authorities in Hong Kong....
347 2012-08-14 The group of American investment firms have provided an alternative plan, which includes a loan of 30 billion yen, or $380 million, to the Japanese chip maker Elpida to help during its restructuring period....
348 2012-08-14 With the choice of Paul D. Ryan to be the Republican vice- presidential nominee, not one person in a group of top political jobs - the presidential and vice-presidential nominees of both parties, the Supreme Court justices, the speaker of the Hous...
349 2012-08-14 Weighing the costs of ever-faster stock trades. | Strong currency accelerates Canada’s decline as an automaker. | For a financial rule designed to protect taxpayers, legislative limbo.
350 2012-08-14 Up Next in Business
351 2012-08-14 Security researchers at Kaspersky Lab wrote in a blog post that they have been unsuccessful in trying to crack the encryption code of Gauss, a computer virus targeting computers in Lebanon....
352 2012-08-14 Microsoft is changing the name Windows Live ID to "Microsoft account" for those signing into its online services....
353 2012-08-14 North Carolina is investigating how what appears to be a transcript for the former Tar Heels football star Julius Peppers surfaced on the university’s Web site.

In a statement Monday, the university said it had removed the link and that it would not discuss confidential student information covered by federal privacy laws. It did not confirm the authenticity of the transcript, which lists Peppers’s name at the top.

The link, which surfaced late Sunday, showed Peppers received some of his highest grades in classes in the Department of African and Afro-American Studies, known as AFAM. A university investigation has since found fraud and poor oversight in 54 department classes from summer 2007 to summer 2011, with football players making up more than a third of the enrollments in those classes and student-athletes making up 58 percent.

Nine of the 10 classes in which Peppers earned a B-plus, B or B-minus came in the department, according to the online document. Peppers also played two seasons of basketball under Bill Guthridge and Matt Doherty, serving as a reserve on the team that reached the Final Four in 2000.

The university’s investigation of the AFAM department began as an offshoot of an N.C.A.A. investigation into improper benefits and academic misconduct in the football program that began in June 2010. That inquiry ultimately led to the firing of Coach Butch Davis in July 2011, though Davis was not cited for a violation when the N.C.A.A. penalized the program in March with a one-year bowl ban and 15 scholarship reductions over three years. Davis has denied knowledge of wrongdoing.

Peppers, the No. 2 pick of the Carolina Panthers in the 2002 N.F.L. draft, spent eight seasons with them. He signed with the Chicago Bears in 2010 and is a six-time Pro Bowl defensive end.
354 2012-08-14 Bennett even became a philosopher for a short period. He said that during free agency, he, like all Americans, was in the pursuit of happiness — as well as a chance to make the perfect play, whether it was blocking or catching.

And Bennett’s wife, Siggi Walker, said he seemed more pleased to be with the Giants.

To begin camp, Bennett made the most noise by saying he hated the Cowboys and wanted to kick their backsides in the Giants’ season opener Sept. 5. In the past, Coughlin did not like his players to be so outspoken. But with two championships, he said he had become more patient.

Coughlin has also enjoyed talking with Bennett.

“He’s an interesting guy,” said Coughlin, who smiled and would not elaborate. “I like them to have their own personality. I just like them to be able to structure it within the concept of trying to keep the focus on the game and on the team. I don’t like robots.”

Bennett first considered playing for the Giants while watching the Super Bowl, in which Ballard and Travis Beckum sustained knee injuries in the win over the New England Patriots. In Dallas, where Witten was the primary receiving tight end, Bennett was asked to block most of the time. He had only 23 passes thrown his way last season and had 17 receptions.

Bennett said he expected his responsibilities to change.

In the preseason opener against the Jacksonville Jaguars, Bennett had three catches for 27 yards, including a 12-yard touchdown from the backup quarterback David Carr.

“I haven’t been in the end zone in a long time,” said Bennett, who has not scored in the regular season since 2008, his rookie year. “I’m just happy to be somewhere where I feel wanted and needed.”

Since 2007, the Giants have not had a tight end make more than 50 catches. Bennett hopes to change that.

Bennett has been splitting first-team snaps in practice with Bear Pascoe. He ran a crisp corner pattern in practice Sunday for a 35-yard touchdown pass from Manning. He impressed fans Monday by tipping a throw from Manning that was behind him, then making an acrobatic catch.

“I think with Martellus, he’s more athletic than maybe some of the tight ends we’ve had,” Manning said. “I thought he’s come in with the right attitude. He should have a lot of opportunity to get catches.”

Bennett has sat behind Manning during the offense’s meeting. Manning said Bennett had asked a lot questions.

In general, Bennett has enjoyed having training camp at the University of Albany, a location Coughlin has used so players can have extended time together. Bennett has played cards with teammates, seen three movies in two days (“The Campaign,” “The Bourne Legacy” and “The Watch”) and watched the Olympics.

“Sometimes, when you’re on a team for so long, you forget about the bonding experience that you have at camp,” Bennett said. “I’m just trying to grow so that everyone gets to know me not only as a teammate, but also as a person.”

Bennett knows he still has a lot of work to do. He said he needed to continue working on blocking technique and route running. He said he could learn from the premier tight ends, like the Patriots’ Rob Gronkowski, Jimmy Graham of the New Orleans Saints and Owen Daniels of the Houston Texans.

“I try to steal something from everybody,” Bennett said. “I think there’s a lot of room for me to grow in this offense.”

The Giants hope Bennett’s performance will match his boisterous personality.

Receiver Hakeem Nicks, who has been rehabilitating a broken foot, was removed from the physically unable to perform list Monday. He is expected to start practicing next week. “I’m very excited about that,” said Nicks, who anticipates progressing slowly. ... Linebackers Michael Boley (hamstring) and Jacquian Williams (hip) and defensive linemen Shaun Rogers (leg) and Justin Trattou (ankle and heel) did not practice. Receiver David Douglas (leg) and offensive lineman Jim Cordle (knee) also did not participate.
355 2012-08-14 More than 650,000 people live in housing that is controlled or subsidized by the New York City Housing Authority. Too many have to wait for months for needed repairs to leaking plumbing and other problems. In an estimated 10,000 apartments, repairs are not scheduled until 2014. This is clearly unacceptable.

The question is how to do the fixing. The housing authority would be a good place to start. The New York Daily News uncovered a $10 million consultant’s analysis that says the authority is not organized to spend money wisely or efficiently. Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, says essentially the same thing.

John Rhea, the chairman of the housing authority, acknowledges problems but says his biggest concern is that Congress is steadily cutting housing allowances. Over the last decade, Washington has cut the city’s share of operating funds for public housing by a total of $757 million.

Doing more with less is Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s mantra. But people who have been working with the city’s housing bureaucracy are baffled about why Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Rhea, his appointee, have allowed the agency to become so disorganized and unresponsive.

Steven Banks, the chief lawyer of New York’s Legal Aid Society, says that in 32 years of fighting for tenants’ rights in the city, “we have never seen it so bad in terms of management of this agency.” Mr. Stringer blames an “antiquated management structure” on the way funds sit untouched and apartments unfixed. His solution, which requires approval in Albany, is a larger board with shorter terms. He also notes that the top administrative job has been vacant since 2010 and that too many decisions are made by the board, not the managers.

This may be one reason that the consultant’s study reportedly said that the authority has “limited capacity to efficiently or effectively spend” federal dollars. Public housing is the only way many people of limited means can survive in a vital city. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Rhea owe it to these people to make their housing livable.
356 2012-08-14 “Internet Pirates Will Always Win” (news analysis, Sunday Review, Aug. 5) missed an important fact: legal music is widely available at reasonable prices, even for free. Take a look online to find legal music that suits your needs. Digital services account for more than half of our industry’s revenues.

Yet as the article acknowledges, theft of music online is rampant, so clearly the problem is more complex than posited.

Let’s be honest: many people will steal if doing so is without consequences. Blaming content owners for this unfortunate fact won’t advance the discussion about how to address the problem.

From our vantage point, legal services must be combined with education, enforcement and cooperation from others online, like search engines. Targeted, common-sense enforcement is necessary and works.

Take LimeWire: when a federal court shut it down for inducing wide-scale theft, licensed downloads shot up and have remained at higher levels than before. Coincidence? We don’t think so.

Content theft has and always will exist, and some people will steal just because they can. Our goal is to get most consumers to do the right thing through a variety of efforts. But throwing up our hands makes no sense at all.
357 2012-08-14 Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan signaled that they intended to go on the offensive, challenging the assumption that Republicans were better off playing down the issue. They are that anxiety about deficits, the influence of the and changing demographics will give them a chance to convince voters that the time has come to confront the rapidly mounting costs of sustaining entitlement programs. Mr. Ryan is scheduled to visit Florida this month.

“Every even-numbered year in Florida, seniors are accustomed to Mediscare tactics; that’s what Democrats do,” said Ed Gillespie, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney. “The fact is, we’re going to go on offense here. Because the president has raided the Medicare trust fund to the tune of $716 billion to pay for a massive expansion of government known as Obamacare.”

“There won’t be a single senior citizen in Florida who won’t know that by November,” he said.

Republican candidates have gained experience in campaigns where Democrats have focused on Mr. Ryan’s Medicare proposal — in Congressional races in and New York — and have developed what they think is an effective way to counter it. That strategy includes assailing Mr. Obama’s health care plan, and noting that it was paid for in part by taking over $700 billion from Medicare.

“The president’s idea, for instance, for Medicare was to cut it by $700 billion,” Mr. Romney said at a rally in St. Augustine. “That’s not the right answer. We want to make sure we preserve and protect Medicare.”

Key to a push-back, Republican officials said, is using elderly surrogates — like a candidate’s parents — to counter the idea that the party’s approach is heartless or would leave retirees worse off.

Mr. Ryan has already begun noting that his mother, a Medicare recipient, lives in southern Florida.

Mr. Romney’s advisers argued that Mr. Ryan’s proposal was nuanced enough, since it would not apply to anyone currently on, or soon to go on, Medicare, to partly blunt Mr. Obama’s attacks.

For all that, even Republicans said the choice of Mr. Ryan had not made Mr. Romney’s task in Florida any easier, particularly because he passed over Senator , a Republican, for the slot. “Ryan Could Hurt Romney in Florida,” read the banner headline on Sunday in The Miami Herald.

“It puts the state in play,” said Joseph Gaylord, a Republican consultant who lives here. “Rubio would have been the best candidate.”

And in Des Moines, on his first solo outing as a member of the ticket, Mr. Ryan was heckled on the issue as he tried to speak at the Iowa State Fair, an indication of the intensity of the battle ahead for him.

Still, Mr. Gaylord said: “It’s a legitimate argument if it’s an argument that goes unanswered. But you go on the offensive on it — the truth is, it’s not going to affect any current seniors — and get that into every discussion about health care you have.”

Democrats said the opening they saw on the issue was reflected in the aggressive way they had moved to hang Mr. Ryan’s budget over Mr. Romney’s candidacy.

“It’s pretty powerful,” said Representative of Florida, who is also head of the . “We have the largest population of seniors in the country. If we go with the Romney-Ryan plan to end Medicare as we know it, you are going to jeopardize the lives of seniors, and you are going to jeopardize the Florida economy.”

The key question, analysts said, is whether Mr. Ryan’s argument about runaway federal spending and deficits would appeal to younger voters who might be worried that at the current trajectory, Medicare will soon become financially unsustainable or a giant burden on future generations.

“The truth is we simply cannot simply continue to pretend like a Medicare on track to go bankrupt at some point is acceptable,” Mr. Romney said at a news conference in Miami. “We must take action to make sure that we can save Medicare for coming generations.”

Brad Coker, the managing director of the Mason-Dixon poll, said Republicans might be helped by the unpopularity of Mr. Obama’s .

“This will be an interesting test,” Mr. Coker said. “Medicare on its own has always been a powerful issue with the Democrats. This is the first time you test Medicare as an issue against the health care reform.”

The elderly population in Florida is more diverse than it was in the days of Democratic snowbirds flocking here from and the : There are more people who have moved from states like Iowa and , and are more likely to be Republicans and, more significantly, affluent.

“The senior vote in Florida is a lot more complicated than it used to be,” said Matthew T. Corrigan, a political scientist at the University of North Florida. “What Ryan does is he helps in places where you have really conservative seniors — the Tea Party seniors if you will.”

Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center, said national polls he had conducted had shown this was an issue of great concern for elderly voters. “If ever there was an issue that threatens the ’s headlock on the senior vote, this is it,” he said.

In interviews, some voters recoiled at the idea of changing the Medicare program immediately, though many said they were open to changes for future recipients.

“I’d be strongly opposed to the idea if it were to affect me,” Phil English, 66, a retired high school teacher, said in Sun City, Ariz. “It’s not being selfish, but we’ve worked for that, and we’ve planned for it.”

In Pennsylvania, a state that Mr. Romney is hoping to put in play, Jennie Fiorenza, 93, a retired bookbinder, spoke warmly of a program that has become a critical part of her life.

“I think Medicare is wonderful, and I couldn’t do without it,” Ms. Fiorenza said.
358 2012-08-14 In addition to serving as fiduciaries, municipal advisers would have to register with the commission, meet professional standards and allow periodic inspections. As fiduciaries, they would have to speak out when they see something amiss, even if it means going against powerful political forces and financial incentives.

Mr. Dold’s bill, introduced last summer, now has 35 other sponsors from both parties. In addition to ending the fiduciary mandate, it would exclude banks and other financial institutions from being deemed municipal advisers, even though bankers often do advise municipalities. A group of engineers that provide cost-benefit studies for municipal energy projects, typically financed with bonds, has also been calling for its members to be excluded.

“As a small-business owner, I believe that it is important to correct a problem when it becomes apparent,” Mr. Dold, who represents a district north of Chicago, said in announcing his bill. “While the Dodd-Frank Act had good intentions, the broad scope under which it was written brings unintended consequences,” like delays and higher costs. The jockeying over the measure continued as it was reported out of a subcommittee just before the recess in July, and the wrangling is expected to continue in September. Mr. Dold has said the fiduciary mandate could stay in the law if everyone agreed that it applied only to “actual municipal advisers, defined as Congress intended,” but so far there is no such agreement.

The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the municipal bond underwriters’ watchdog, is flexing its muscles after getting a new mandate from Dodd-Frank to keep an eye out for local taxpayers. When it was created 37 years ago, its only mandate was to protect the investors who buy municipal bonds.

In May, the board expanded its existing fair-dealing rule, requiring underwriters to make sure local officials understand the risks of complex bond deals, and to disclose any incentives they may have for supporting certain transactions.

But those changes barely squeaked by the S.E.C., which must approve the rule-making board’s actions. Two of the five commissioners, Daniel M. Gallagher and Troy A. Paredes, issued an unusual dissent, saying the board had not done enough to make sure the benefits of the expanded rules were worth the cost, which could be borne by local taxpayers.

The need to protect residents from borrowing debacles is coming increasingly into focus, as fiscal distress mounts in many communities. In some cases, poorly structured bond deals are a big part of the problem.

“What has happened to the taxpayer is just atrocious,” said John Stoffa, the county executive of Northampton County, in rural eastern Pennsylvania, which just paid Bank of America $27 million to get out of a bond-related contract that a previous county government entered in 2004. That’s more than the county’s annual spending on social services to youth, children and families.

But Northampton County got off easy compared to places like Jefferson County, Ala., where imprudent bond deals figured in the biggest municipal bankruptcy in United States history, and Harrisburg, Pa., which is now in receivership.

The bonds in those places, and many others, involved derivatives that were supposed to lower the communities’ borrowing costs. But the financial crisis of 2008, and the low interest rates that followed it, have changed the underlying math, forcing communities to pay more interest than expected over the remaining life of their bonds. In some cases the bonds no longer exist, but the derivative contracts are still running, costing local residents money year after year.

The S.E.C. says no comprehensive data exists on how many municipalities have been caught with such contracts, or how much they are paying.

“This has gotten much worse over the past year,” said Craig Underwood, president of Bond Logistix L.L.C., an advisory firm that works with state and local governments. He said that last year, some of his client communities had been thinking about whether to get out of their derivatives contracts by making a large payment to a bank, the way Northampton County did. But while they hesitated, interest rates fell even lower, and now they can no longer afford the termination fees.

Had there been a fiduciary mandate a decade ago, the riskiest bond deals might not have been struck at all. And on the transactions that did go forward, a qualified municipal adviser might have taken the time to renegotiate better terms and pricing, said Andrew Kalotay, a debt-management specialist now serving on the committee that is helping draft educational requirements for municipal advisers.

“It pains me to see what’s going on,” said Mr. Kalotay.

What often happened instead was this. A trusted banker told local officials they could save money by adding derivatives to their bonds, then recommended other companies to work on the deal for contingency fees. The officials focused on the ostensible savings, without stopping to consider that none of their advisers would be paid unless the deal went through — however unsound or overpriced it might be.

“Without the fiduciary duty, tens of thousands of local governments, hundreds of thousands of local officials, and hundreds of millions of local taxpayers and ratepayers would be at significant risk, as they have been in the past,” said Mr. Doty, the adviser from Sacramento.
359 2012-08-14 But for now, let me just hand the loudspeaker to the chatty Mr. Marmor, who has been on the road now for 38 years, carrying big suitcases full of movie and television photos to trade shows. Let me introduce him as a kind of business traveler Everyman.

Here he is on the rising costs of travel: “There are plenty of us in business who are — and there is no polite way to say this — cheapskates,” he said. “I’m always checking for a low fare. But now it’s like, oh, look, it’s advertised as $358 round trip! Then you go through the listings, and they’re all $600 flights. The $358 one? Well that’s no longer available, and it was two connections anyway. Forget it!”

International flying, Mr. Marmor said, also presents problems. “I just did a trip to Germany. A ticket I once paid 400 bucks for, I just paid $1,100, and that was booking two months in advance,” he said. “Actually, when you see how it’s broken down, the actual fare was like $350 and the rest was all taxes, fees and surcharges.”

He said he was planning another trip soon to a collectors’ show in Bonn, Germany. Fares from New York to Cologne-Bonn Airport have increased so much, Mr. Marmor said, that he is instead considering leaving early, flying to Düsseldorf and taking a train the 36 miles to Bonn.

He’s right, incidentally. International fares are now as baffling to figure out as the domestic ones. On Monday, the cheapest round-trip fare I found from Kennedy International Airport to Cologne for travel in mid-September was $1,043.70 on Delta Air Lines. But the breakdown showed that while the airfare itself was a mere $381, an additional $662 was assessed for fees, surcharges and taxes. By contrast, a round-trip flight from Kennedy to Düsseldorf was $675.80 on United for the same days — $472 in base fare and $293 in fees, taxes and surcharges.

By the way, if you are flying internationally this fall, watch for sales this month, especially on trans-Atlantic routes. Demand has been softening, and “worldwide fares continue to show weakness,” the International Air Transport Association said.

For someone like Mr. Marmor, who has to travel with at least two suitcases of merchandise, figuring out the price of flying is complicated by the extra fees almost all airlines charge for things like checked bags.

He says he has permanent Gold elite status on American Airlines, for having logged 1.7 million miles on that carrier. That status gives him two free checked bags. But if American’s schedule or fares don’t meet his needs, it becomes a matter of “constantly jiggering” the data on schedules, fares and fees for bags on competing airlines.

In those instances, he said, “Do you think I have a clue as to what I end up actually paying for a trip? Hah!” Entrepreneurs who manage their own travel budgets and corporate travel executives who manage travel spending for thousands of executives, are all sounding the same refrain these days. I’ll pass the microphone again to Mr. Marmor.

“Airlines need to be a lot more clear with me about this: What is the price — the actual price — of my ticket?” he said. In recent years, he added, “my air travel and hotel costs have doubled. Oh, O.K., you can find a cheaper hotel, but it’s 12 miles from the hotel where your event is, and that means taking cabs, which have also doubled.”

Anything else? Oh, lots. What about the annoyances caused by those couples who get on airplanes with seat assignments in different rows and “have that sense of entitlement” that they should be accommodated by making single travelers like Mr. Marmor move to another seat, sometimes insisting that he move from an aisle seat to “a middle seat eight rows back.”

“Why can’t they plan ahead and get seats assigned together if they can’t be apart for three hours?” he said.

But don’t get him started.
360 2012-08-14 Ms. Brown routinely described herself as a feminist, but whether her work helped or hindered the cause of women’s liberation has been publicly debated for decades. It will doubtless be debated long after her death. What is safe to say is that she was a Janus-headed figure in women’s history, simultaneously progressive and retrogressive in her approach to women’s social roles.

Few magazines have been identified so closely with a single editor as Cosmopolitan was with Ms. Brown. Before she took over, Cosmopolitan, like its competitors, was every inch a postwar product. Its target reader was a married suburbanite, preoccupied with maintaining the perfect figure, raising the perfect child and making the perfect Jell-O salad.

Ms. Brown tossed the children and the Jell-O, though she kept the diet advice with a vengeance. Yes, readers would need to land Mr. Right someday — the magazine left little doubt that he was still every woman’s grail. But in an era in which an unmarried woman was called an old maid at 23, the new Cosmopolitan gave readers license not to settle for settling down with just anyone, and to enjoy the search with blissful abandon for however long it took. Sex as an end in itself was perfectly fine, the magazine assured them. As a means to an end — the right husband, the right career, the right designer labels — it was better still.

In Ms. Brown’s hands, Cosmopolitan anticipated “Sex and the City” by three decades.

Gone was the housewife, apron in tow. In her place was That Cosmopolitan Girl, the idealized reader on whom Ms. Brown and her advertisers firmly trained their sights. Unencumbered by husband and children, the Cosmo Girl was self-made, sexual and supremely ambitious, a potent amalgam of Ragged Dick, Sammy Glick and Holly Golightly. She looked great, wore fabulous clothes and had an unabashedly good time when those clothes came off.

Forty-three when she took the magazine’s helm, Ms. Brown often described the Cosmo Girl as the young woman she had been — or dreamed of being — 20 years before.

A child of the Ozarks, Helen Marie Gurley was born on Feb. 18, 1922, in Green Forest, Ark., the younger of two daughters of a family of modest means. Her father, Ira, was a schoolteacher, as her mother, the former Cleo Sisco, had been before her marriage.

“I never liked the looks of the life that was programmed for me — ordinary, hillbilly and poor — and I repudiated it from the time I was 7 years old,” Ms. Brown wrote in her book “Having It All” (1982).

When Helen was a baby, Ira Gurley was elected to the state legislature, and the family moved to Little Rock. In 1932, when she was 10, Ira was killed in an elevator accident, leaving her mother depressed and impoverished. In 1937, Mrs. Gurley moved with her daughters to . There, Helen’s older sister, Mary, contracted ; she spent the rest of her life paralyzed from the waist down and in later years battled .

Though Helen was valedictorian of her high school class, she feared she could never transcend her family circumstances. At a time when a young woman’s main chance was to marry well, she felt ill equipped. She did not consider herself pretty, she wrote years afterward, and had rampant, intractable . She coined the word “mouseburger” to describe young women like her. [mouseburger, n., pejorative, < mouse + -burger. A physically unprepossessing woman with little money and few prospects. Cf. milquetoast, said of men.]

Helen Gurley persevered. She studied briefly at Texas State College for Women (it is now Texas Woman’s University), but with no money to continue, she returned to Los Angeles and enrolled in secretarial school, from which she graduated in 1941.

Around this time she had a short, inadvertent career as an escort. At 19, as Ms. Brown recounted in her memoir “I’m Wild Again” (2000), she answered a newspaper advertisement seeking young women for “social evenings.” She needed to support her mother and sister: What could be simpler, she reasoned, than earning $5 for going on a date? On her first outing, she and her gentleman caller parked and kissed a bit before the full extent of her responsibilities dawned on her. She fled with her $5 and her virtue.

She went on to hold a string of secretarial jobs — 17 by her own count — and discovered the measure of security that sex could bring. At every office, or so it seemed, there were bosses eager to fondle and dandle. In exchange, there might be a fur or an apartment or the wherewithal to keep her family going.

Helen Gurley eventually became an advertising copywriter in Los Angeles, first with Foote, Cone & Belding and later with Kenyon & Eckhardt. In 1959 she married David Brown, a former managing editor of Cosmopolitan who had become a Hollywood producer. “I look after him like a geisha girl,” she told in 1970.

Mr. Brown, who produced “Jaws” and other well-known films, died in 2010; the couple had no children. Ms. Brown’s sister, Mary Gurley Alford, died before her.

This year Ms. Brown gave $30 million to Columbia and Stanford Universities, both of which Mr. Brown had attended, to create the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute for Media Innovation.

In the early 1960s, Ms. Brown found herself at loose ends and cast about for a project. Her husband, who had recently stumbled on a cache of letters she had written in her 20s to a married man who was smitten with her, persuaded her to write “Sex and the Single Girl.”

Though the book seems almost quaint today (“An affair can last from one night to forever”), it caused a sensation when it was published in 1962 by Bernard Geis Associates. It sold millions of copies, turned Ms. Brown into a household name and inspired a movie of the same title starring Natalie Wood, released in 1964.

In 1963, the Browns moved to New York. Two years later, the Hearst Corporation asked Ms. Brown to take over Cosmopolitan, one of its less prepossessing magazines. Becalmed in the doldrums, Cosmopolitan favored articles on home and hearth, along with uplifting discussions of current affairs (“The Only His Family Knows”).

Ms. Brown had never held an editing job, but her influence on Cosmopolitan was swift and certain: she did not so much revamp the magazine as vamp it.

Where just months earlier Cosmo’s covers had featured photos of demure, high-collared girl-next-door types like , Ms. Brown’s first issue, July 1965, showed a voluptuous blond model whose deep cleavage was barely contained by her plunging neckline.

What Cosmopolitan’s previous cover lines had lacked in pith and punch (“ : Will Your Children Inherit It?”), Ms. Brown’s more than made up for. “World’s Greatest Lover — What it was like to be wooed by him!” her inaugural cover proclaimed. Ms. Brown was not shy about disclosing the fact that in her 32 years with the magazine, her husband wrote all the cover lines.

Readers and advertisers flocked to the new Cosmo. When Ms. Brown took over, the magazine had a circulation of less than 800,000; at its height, in the 1980s, circulation approached three million.

Ms. Brown’s magazine did not find favor with everyone. In 1970, a group of feminists led by Kate Millett staged a sit-in at Ms. Brown’s office, protesting what they saw as her retrograde vision of womanhood. Even several nude male centerfolds ( , April 1972; , August 1977) were for many critics insufficient counterweights.

But in retrospect, Ms. Brown’s work seems strikingly apolitical, beholden mostly to the politics of personal advancement. (In “Having It All,” she compares herself, favorably, to .) The advice she offered Cosmopolitan’s readers on winning the right friends and influencing the right people was squarely in the tradition of Dale Carnegie, if less vertically inclined.

Ms. Brown was declared a living landmark by the New York Landmarks Conservancy, a private nonprofit organization, in 1995. Like many landmarks, she had much restoration work done, which she spoke of candidly: a nose job, , face-lifts, eye lifts and injections of silicone and fat into her face to keep at bay, among other procedures.

But while she could offset the physical tolls of aging, Ms. Brown could not always keep pace with changing times. She drew wide criticism for publishing an article in the January 1988 issue of Cosmopolitan that played down the risk of for heterosexual women. In the 1990s, when prominent men like Justice and Senator Robert Packwood were facing accusations of sexual harassment, Ms. Brown publicly disdained the charges, arguing that sexual attention from men is almost always flattering. Her remarks angered many feminists.

In 1996, with circulation declining and the perception that Ms. Brown had lost touch with her readers growing, Hearst announced that she would step down the next year as editor in chief. Ms. Brown’s last issue was February 1997; she was succeeded by , the founding editor of the American edition of Marie Claire magazine.

Ms. Brown stayed on as the editor of Cosmopolitan’s international editions, continuing to work from an office appointed with pink silk walls, leopard-print carpet and a cushion embroidered with the maxim “Good Girls Go to Heaven/Bad Girls Go Everywhere.”

A biography of Ms. Brown, “Bad Girls Go Everywhere,” by Jennifer Scanlon, was published by Oxford University Press in 2009.

Ms. Brown’s other books include “Sex and the Office” (1964), “Helen Gurley Brown’s Single Girl’s Cookbook” (1969) and “Sex and the New Single Girl” (1970), all published by Bernard Geis. In 1993, William Morrow published “The Late Show,” Ms. Brown’s advice book for women over 50, in which she suggests that as women age and the supply of available men dwindles, they should simply appropriate their friends’ husbands for jaunty recreational sex.

Perhaps none of these things — not the books, not the unabashed look of Cosmopolitan and its legion of imitators, not the giddy pleasure with which American women embraced sex without shame — would have happened quite as soon if Ms. Brown had heeded a single piece of advice. In 1962, just before “Sex and the Single Girl” was due to be published, she received a telegram from her mother. In an interview with CNN in 1998, Ms. Brown recalled its contents.

“dear helen,” it read. “if you move very quickly, i think we can stop publication of the book.”
361 2012-08-14 Many dance company directors, especially the most venerable, keep to the wings, letting their dancers and the works speak for themselves. Cleo Parker Robinson is not one of those.

At Lincoln Center Out of Doors on Friday night, during the appearance of the troupe she founded and has directed in Denver for more than 40 years, the 64-year-old Ms. Robinson ran short of breath verbally working the audience. She praised it and New York City, introducing the pieces, talking about her life and art, giving shout-outs to Katherine Dunham and Alvin Ailey. She rapped black-pride rhymes by Maya Angelou. She swung her hips in a short and sparkly dress and looked mighty fine doing so.

The Cleo Parker Robinson Dance Ensemble shares her giving spirit and warm appeal, though no one else onstage quite matched her vitality or charisma. The four selections on the program included both the brand-new (a world premiere by the Haitian choreographer Jeanguy Saintus) and the vintage (a signature piece Ms. Robinson made in the 1970s), yet, stylistically speaking, there was little in any of the works that would have seemed out of place in the troupe’s inaugural season. Struggle and resilience, spiritual uplift and lowdown fun: the old verities of African-American modern dance have not been abandoned in Colorado.

In the oldest work, an excerpt from Ms. Robinson’s “Spiritual Suite,” three women in colored shawls rocked in chairs and rose to testify to an electric-blues recording of “Mary Don’t You Weep.” The taped voice of the poet Nikki Giovanni spoke of willows, and these women bent but did not break, contracting in staccato sobs, heroically straightening a leg to the sky, hinging at the knee down to the floor.

Similar vocabulary marked “Arranged,” a 2010 ensemble work by Milton Myers, a choreographer of Ms. Robinson’s generation, yet the music was from Philip Glass’s 1984 opera “Akhnaten.” A memorial to a stalwart company dancer, it was a ritual of circular formations, using poses and motion to resist and ride the score’s intensifying pulse. (Here, and in “Mary,” from the “Spiritual Suite,” Melissa L. Tyler stood out for her sharpness.)

For “Fusion,” the premiere by Mr. Saintus, the music was Haitian, as were several of the ritual elements, but there was also a clear debt to Martha Graham. Although that’s a kind of fusion, the bolder one came in how a leaping strength in the men transferred to the women, and a wavy softness in the women transferred to the men. Despite the addition of red skirts near the end, the energy flagged. Yet the easy sensuality was pleasant on a summer evening.

So were the excerpts from Ms. Robinson’s 1983 jazz piece “Lush Life.” A clichéd love triangle in a nightclub preceded a loose party of mambo and swing dancing. Ms. Robinson recited text by Ms. Angelou, in which the refrain, “Now ain’t they bad? An ain’t they black?” resolved into “An ain’t we fine?’ ”
362 2012-08-14 Apart from the revenue forecast, investors were concerned about the way Groupon records the revenue it gets from its merchandise sales, known as Groupon Goods. Groupon records not just its share of the payments from buyers but the total amount paid.

In the conference call, Jason Child, Groupon’s chief financial officer, said that if the company booked only its share of sales, it would give too much information to competitors about its business costs. If just Groupon’s share was counted, he said, revenue growth in the second quarter would have been 30 percent, not 45 percent.

“If you strip out the Goods business, they were down 7 percent from the last quarter,” said Ken Sena, an analyst with Evercore Equities. “It shows there is a softness in the deals side,” which should be the more profitable part of Groupon’s business, he said.

Groupon, based in Chicago, was an early leader in the business of offering discounts on things like restaurant meals and local tourism over the Internet, profiting as a middleman on the deals. It grew to $500 million in revenue in just three years, faster than eBay or Amazon, and now offers more than 1,000 deals each day in more than 48 countries.

Its fast rise has for months been in an equally stunning retreat, which began with concerns about Groupon’s ability to lock in repeat transactions with merchants and consumers. With the after-hours trading Monday, Groupon’s market capitalization of about $4 billion was $2 billion less than Google’s buyout offer for the company in November 2010.

The collapse of the stock, along with similar performances by both Facebook and the online games company Zynga, has led to questions about whether these new fast-growing consumer Web businesses were overpromoted. Zynga, which closed Monday at $2.93, is down 69 percent from its initial offering last December. Facebook, which had its debut as a public stock last May at $38 a share, closed Monday at $21.60, down 43 percent from its offering.

While none of these companies have lived up to investors’ highest hopes, Groupon’s decline has many specifics. Some small businesses have said that they are not getting the expected repeat traffic from their Groupon offerings, giving them a net loss on the deals. Coupon buyers often fail to exercise their impulse purchases and become less inclined to purchase more.

Groupon has also faced increased competition from both Amazon.com and Google, which started its own deals business after it was rebuffed by Groupon. Both Amazon and Google are proficient in using lots of data and statistical projection to target offers.

Groupon has over the last several months hired executives from Dell, Sprint and Amazon to address its marketing problems, and has opened an office in Seattle, where Amazon is based. Those efforts are most likely too recent to have had much impact on the second-quarter performance.

Mr. Sena, the analyst, said the earnings indicated that Groupon was moving toward a greater dependence on selling discounted merchandise rather than the more profitable coupons. “I see a company making a change in its business out of necessity more than opportunity,” he said.
363 2012-08-14 Saving lives this young is not benign. Survivors of extreme prematurity have frequent, and often severe, complications during their time in the NICU. In the worst cases, these children will suffer lifelong disabilities: cerebral palsy; severe visual impairment that thick glasses and eye surgery can only partly correct; scarred lungs that will leave them reliant on oxygen tanks; intellectual and behavioral problems that put them well behind their peers.

Partly because prospects for these children can be so dark, the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests not resuscitating babies born before 23 weeks, while babies born after 26 weeks are usually resuscitated.

Between 23 and 26 weeks, the risks remain high but survival improves with each week. This range is treated by the pediatrics organization as a gray zone, and doctors and parents must make the hard decision about whether to try to resuscitate a baby without firm guidance.

The circumstances are rarely ideal. Neonatologists walk into a patient’s room, day or night, amid the intense activity of obstetricians and nurses trying to manage labor. It’s an emotional, tense and uncertain time not conducive to detailed discussion or reflection. Unsurprisingly, then, these life-or-death decisions are made inconsistently.

In a 2005 study, researchers at McGill University in Montreal surveyed 165 pediatric and obstetric residents in four Quebec medical centers about resuscitating babies born between 23 and 26 weeks. Some residents, the researchers found, worked at hospitals with an aggressive culture of resuscitation. Other facilities embraced far less aggressive approaches: Even at 26 weeks, when a premature baby’s chance of survival is over 70 percent, residents at these medical centers indicated that they would attempt resuscitation only about half the time. Pediatricians in the United States also have highly variable approaches to resuscitating premature babies, studies suggest.

Parents hold to a far more consistent ethos. A 2001 study by researchers at McMaster University in Ontario showed that a significant majority believed that attempts should be made to save all infants, irrespective of condition or weight at birth. Just 6 percent of health professionals said the same. Older studies in the United States have suggested that parents here feel much the same.

Why this gap between parents and some doctors, even as medical technology makes it possible to save increasing numbers of premature babies? Perhaps doctors who are reluctant to intervene at all costs are all too familiar with — and wary of — the possible consequences. As two neonatologists, Dr. William Meadow and Dr. John Lantos, put it , “It used to be that all of cerebral palsy was God’s fault.” Now roughly half of cases are our fault, they wrote, and “that is hard to live with.”

And many doctors realize the ordeal of resuscitation won’t be limited to the babies. The NICU is also incredibly difficult for parents. In 2005, Dr. Annie Janvier, a neonatologist in Montreal who researches decision-making in medically uncertain circumstances, was just over 23 weeks pregnant when she went into labor. She gave birth in the very hospital where she practiced neonatology. “My baby was in the ‘optional’ category, and we had to make a decision,” she recalled.

They asked the team to take full measures. Their little girl, whom they named Violette, went right to the NICU. She would have a very rocky course, at one point becoming so sick that Dr. Janvier and her husband decided to withhold therapy. The little girl rallied, then nearly succumbed to an infection.

All of this had a deep impact on Dr. Janvier — but not the sort you’d expect. “I loathed visiting the neonatal intensive care unit while she was unstable,” Dr. Janvier wrote in an essay about Violette’s first weeks. “I hated being encouraged to participate in her care.”

Not bonding too strongly with a premature or sickly newborn may be a protective mechanism for parents, Dr. Janvier now believes. After all, for most of human history, premature babies died. But bring in modern medicine, set the expectation that every baby has a fighting chance, and we’ve authored a new relationship with these children — patients now, not objects — that we’re still struggling to confront.

Doctors may take the same approach. As a resident, the occupants of those little incubators, it seemed to me, were more fetus than baby, one interchangeable with the next. We didn’t even give them names, just a medical record number, or we would refer to them by their gender — “Jones, Baby Girl.” It was easier to round when their parents weren’t there. You could just get the night’s numbers, do a quick exam and move on. It all helped me stay detached.

Many studies show a vast majority of extreme preemies go on to live satisfying and productive lives. Violette left the NICU when she was 4 months old, and today she is a happy, healthy girl. Still, when the end of life is so close to its beginning, there are no easy days in neonatology. Doctors do the best they can under tremendous pressure and the specter of emotional and clinical uncertainty. It’s a reminder that despite the fact that we have the best technology powering the NICU, medicine remains a fundamentally human — and therefore imperfect — endeavor.
364 2012-08-14 Ms. Bollin-Flade, who was one of about 10 businesspeople invited to discuss Mittelstand issues with Chancellor Angela Merkel in her office last year, said she supported the German leader’s strategy of insisting that financial aid be granted to troubled euro zone countries only if they show more fiscal discipline and economic reforms.

“We should get something in return,” Ms. Bollin-Flade said.

What people like her think is important. While companies like BMW and Siemens spring to mind when people think of German business, the Mittelstand is arguably the soul of the German economy, and also reflects many of the values that Germany is known for.

In fact, the Germany economy sometimes resembles one big Mittelstand company: it is built for stability more than growth. Debt is bad, prudence a higher virtue than profit.

That characteristic often frustrates Germany’s neighbors, as well as some economists, who wish Germans would spend more to stimulate growth in the rest of the euro zone. But Germans argue that their approach has helped the country avoid downturns like those that have hit Spain and Italy and are threatening France. While Greece was racking up debt during the last decade, Mittelstand companies were resolutely cutting theirs, according to data from the Institute for Mittelstand Research in Bonn.

“They want to increase their independence from banks and external financing,” said Christoph Lamsfuss, an economist at the institute. “They want to make sure that the next generation inherits a solid company. In the final analysis that is good for the German economy.”

Companies like Christian Bollin Armaturenfabrik, named for Ms. Bollin-Flade’s grandfather, who founded the maker of specialized valves in 1924, will play an important supporting role in determining how much the German economy will continue to provide a crucial counterweight to the recession in Southern Europe.

Data scheduled to be released Tuesday is expected to show that the German economy continued to grow modestly in the second quarter of this year. Not so the euro zone as a whole, which had zero growth in the first quarter and was unlikely to have shown growth in the second. France may join Spain, Italy and several other euro zone countries that have experienced declining output.

There are signs that the crisis is now beginning to hurt German industry. Production in the country’s factories fell 0.9 percent in June from May, according to official figures. New orders have begun to slump.

Yet there are also reasons to believe that the Mittelstand is well armored for a downturn. The turmoil of the 20th century, the years of stagnation that followed German reunification and then a sharp recession in 2009 have taught Mittelstand companies to be prepared for the worst.

A few years ago, Ms. Bollin-Flade did something that may help explain why the German economy has been so resilient. She turned down orders from her biggest customer.

Ms. Bollin-Flade was worried about becoming too dependent on any one source of revenue. So she and her husband and business partner, Bernd Flade, enforced a rule they still apply today: no customer may account for more than 10 percent of sales, even if that sometimes means turning away business.

“If 20 percent of your sales fall away, that’s difficult,” Ms. Bollin-Flade said. “If 10 percent falls away it’s not nice, but it’s not dramatic.”

In places like Silicon Valley or Shanghai, leaving money on the table like that would probably be enough to get an entrepreneur drummed out of the local chamber of commerce. But the risk aversion, and the preference for slow, steady growth rather than a quick euro, is typical of the Mittelstand.

“My machines are paid for,” said Ms. Bollin-Flade. “I have no bank credit. That’s what sets the Mittelstand apart. You set aside something for bad times.”

Yet — illustrating one of the strengths typical of Mittelstand firms — Bollin Armaturenfabrik has an international reputation and exports its high-end niche products around the world. On a recent day, a wooden pallet sat on the workshop floor stacked with cardboard boxes marked for China.

“That’s going to Beijing on Friday,” said Marcus Franz, the production manager, speaking above the whir of metal lathes and drill presses.

Bollin specializes in making parts to order and delivering them quickly — sometimes within hours, if need be. Customers will pay what they have to for a component that may be essential to keep a factory running, Ms. Bollin-Flade said. “The price is not the issue. Delivery time is the issue,” she said. “There aren’t too many companies that do what I do.”

She summed up the frugal Mittelstand approach to business by quoting an old saying. “You can only wear one pair of pants,” said Ms. Bollin-Flade, who was wearing a pantsuit. “The second one is in the closet and you don’t need the third.”
365 2012-08-14 ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla. — It was Day 2 of the most closely watched bromance in American politics, and Mitt Romney was already missing his new running mate.

“Do I get to see him until the inauguration?” Mr. Romney asked an aide.

Representative Paul D. Ryan, sitting a few inches away on a leather bench in a campaign bus, compared schedules with his new boss. “Ohio,” Mr. Romney said, ticking off coming campaign stops.

“Oh yeah, I think I’m going to Ohio, too,” Mr. Ryan replied.

The most intriguing dimension of the Romney-Ryan partnership is the unmistakable sense that the two men thoroughly enjoy each other’s company.

During the first 48 hours as the Republican ticket, they often seemed like a pair of long-lost, hyper-earnest, spreadsheet-loving cousins. They rarely left each other’s sight, exchanging hugs, backslaps and knowing smiles, as if they knew their time together might be short-lived.

On Monday, the two split up to try to cover as much swing-state territory as possible in the next few weeks. (Mr. Ryan headed to Iowa on Monday, while Mr. Romney was in Florida.) But advisers to Mr. Romney, who seemed as struck by the candidates’ chemistry as anyone, said they were lobbying for the two to spend as much time together as possible over the next few weeks.
366 2012-08-14 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 38.52 points, or 0.29 percent, at 13,169.43. The S.& P. 500 declined 1.76 points, or 0.13 percent, to 1,404.11. The Dow is still up 7.8 percent for the year, the S.& P. 11.7 percent.

The S.& P. 500 and the Dow have risen every week for the last five weeks. The S.& P. 500 last had a five-week climb in mid-March. The Dow hasn’t done so since last October.

Mondays, however, have brought mostly losses for the market in recent weeks. The Dow has fallen for 10 of the last 11 Mondays, and the S.& P. 500 has finished down five of the last six.

The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.66 points, or 0.05 percent, to 3,022.52. The index was helped by solid gains for two of its biggest components, Apple and Google.

Google rose 2.8 percent after announcing that it would cut 20 percent of the staff at Motorola Mobility, the struggling mobile phone maker it acquired in May. Motorola hasn’t had a hit product since it introduced the Razr in 2005. Google’s stock rose $18.01 to $660.01. Apple rose $8.30 to $630.

Groupon plunged in aftermarket electronic trading after the daily deals Web site said its revenue fell short of analysts’ forecasts. Groupon was down $1.41, or 18.7 percent, at $6.14.

Most Asian and European markets closed lower. Stocks edged higher in Spain. Many traders said they believe that the European Central Bank will take a more active role in fighting the region’s debt crisis by reducing borrowing costs for Spain, Italy and others.

Monetary authorities in the United States and China also are believed to be weighing plans to stimulate growth. Central banks have been hesitant so far to get involved with an economy that may be on the cusp of a rebound. They are mindful, however, of the effect of an achingly slow recovery on businesses and consumers.

China revealed on Friday that export growth in July fell to just 1 percent from 11.3 percent as recently as the previous month. That was well below forecasts for about 5 percent.

Investors had divergent reactions to two major asset sales by the energy giant BP. Tesoro rose 9.5 percent, the most in the S.& P. 500 index, after saying it would pay $2.5 billion for a California refinery, pipelines, storage terminals and the Arco-branded retail outlets in the Southwest. Tesoro’s stock rose $3.37 to $38.87.

Eagle Rock Energy Partners fell 2.7 percent after the company agreed to buy two BP gas processing plants in Texas for $227.5 million. The stock fell 24 cents to $8.72.

The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 2/32, to 99 20/32, and the yield rose to 1.67 percent, up from 1.66 percent late Friday.
367 2012-08-14 SYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia endorsed a set of sweeping changes to immigration policy on Monday that would increase the number of refugees the country accepts by nearly half while reopening remote offshore detention centers that have been criticized by human rights groups as inhumane and ineffective.

Ms. Gillard made the announcement after an expert panel convened by the government reported on ways to stem the influx of refugees to Australia. Thousands of people try to reach the country each year on rickety, overcrowded vessels, leading to a growing number of accidents at sea that have killed more than 600 people since late 2009. Around 90 asylum seekers are believed to have died in June when their boat capsized south of Java, Indonesia, prompting renewed calls for government intervention.

The panel’s report called for immediately increasing the number of refugees allowed to take up residence in Australia to 20,000 from 13,700, and for reopening detention centers in Nauru and Papua New Guinea to hold refugees awaiting entry, a practice that was largely abandoned in 2007 when Ms. Gillard’s Labor Party came to power.

Though Ms. Gillard was quick to endorse the panel’s proposals, it was not clear whether her minority government could enact them.

The Green Party, which usually votes with Labor, opposes offshore detention.

“I’m not going to play politics, or look at political scoreboards, when too many lives have been lost,” Ms. Gillard said. “The government today has determined to endorse in principle all of the recommendations.”

Australia has tried for years to find a policy that will deter would-be immigrants from trying to reach Christmas Island, a remote territory in the Indian Ocean that is Australia’s closest point to Indonesia.

Ms. Gillard had proposed sending asylum seekers to Malaysia for processing, but the plan was rejected by Australia’s highest court and negotiations over a replacement plan broke down.
368 2012-08-14 With the choice of Paul D. Ryan to be the Republican vicepresidential nominee, not one person in a group of top political jobs -- the presidential and vice-presidential nominees of both parties, the Supreme Court justices, the speaker of the House...
369 2012-08-14 Moviegoers got a peek at Ang Lee's next film, " Life of Pi ," earlier this summer when Fox  took the unusual step  of showing a full uncut scene before screenings of "Prometheus" and other films. But New York Film Festival audiences will be the fi...
370 2012-08-14 CHICAGO - Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., who has been on medical leave since early June, is being treated for "Bipolar II depression" at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, according to a statement released by the clinic Monday providing the most ...
371 2012-08-15 A wildfire in central Washington State has destroyed more than 28,000 acres and 70 homes since Monday....
372 2012-08-15 Demand for high-yield corporate debt is insatiable, even as analysts warn that the market has become overheated and is ripe for a fall....
373 2012-08-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
374 2012-08-15 The hosts of "Noticiero Univision," Jorge Ramos and María Elena Salinas, will urge Mitt Romney and President Obama to participate in a debate or forum for its Hispanic viewers....
375 2012-08-15 Mike Aresco, the new commissioner of the Big East, does not take over until September, so he does not emphasize specifics when answering questions about the conference....
376 2012-08-15 The New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, subpoenaed several banks last month, including JPMorgan Chase, Deutsche Bank and the Royal Bank of Scotland....
377 2012-08-15 Is the 12-month inflation rate 1.4 percent, or is it 2.3 percent, or something in between? All of the above....
378 2012-08-15 Leaders of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum are asking a federal court to dismiss a lawsuit seeking to block them from displaying a cross-shaped beam salvaged from the World Trade Center ruins....
379 2012-08-15 The musical adaptation of the 2005 film will feature a score by Cyndi Lauper and star Billy Porter and Stark Sands....
380 2012-08-15 Ally Financial, the former GMAC, said on Wednesday that Gerald Greenwald and Henry S. Miller had been elected to its board of directors....
381 2012-08-15 Checking account fees are rising, but are lower at online and smaller banks, a study finds....
382 2012-08-15 With Standard Chartered settlement, a victory for a new regulator. | In Northeast, trains gain ground against airlines. | Importing Russia's top gun....
383 2012-08-15 With Standard Chartered settlement, a victory for a new regulator. | In Northeast, trains gain ground against airlines. | Importing Russia's top gun.
384 2012-08-15 Even Mitt Romney's exercise routine is open to tinkering at the hands of his younger (and fitter) running mate....
385 2012-08-15 “Internet Pirates Will Always Win” (news analysis, Sunday Review, Aug. 5) urges artists and innovators in the creative sector to give up and “realize that their time would be better spent playing an entirely different game.” Not so fast.

There is a glimmer of hope that the millennial generation will choose to support the artists and the art they love by behaving ethically online if given the facts.

Illicit sites aren’t modern-day Robin Hoods. Such sites exploit the work of artists and reap profits from monetizing the personal information they harvest from visitors. To them, culture is “content,” fans are “eyeballs” or “clicks,” and both are commodities to be burned. Those who side with them pollute the Internet ecosystem they leave as their legacy.

I am not giving up on a generation that chooses passion and principles over expediency and thrift when assessing other social causes.
386 2012-08-15 German data protection officials have reopened an investigation into Facebook's use of facial recognition software. It could lead to fines against the social network giant....
387 2012-08-15 The concluding play, “The Midnight Caller,” written in the mid-1950s, is less successfully focused and less self-assured. But it, too, enjoyably considers the implicit sprawling dimensions of what we think of as small talk.

Set in a carefully arranged, floral-patterned room in 1928 (Marion Williams is the set designer), “Blind Date” initially suggests a folksy cross between Booth Tarkington’s comedies of courtship and Tennessee Williams’s “Glass Menagerie.” Like Williams’s Amanda, Ms. Foote’s Dolores is a former belle bent on imparting lessons in how to be popular to a reluctant pupil.

That’s her visiting niece, Sarah Nancy (Andrea Lynn Green), a sullen bookworm who has already alienated most of the eligible boys in Harrison. But Dolores, who refuses to concede defeat, has arranged for one last gentleman caller, an insurance salesman named Felix (Evan Jonigkeit, with brilliantined hair and a smile to match). She is determined to drill into Sarah Nancy the art of talking to, and listening to, a boy.

As she says to her husband, Robert (played with fine, exasperated amusement by Devon Abner): “I wasn’t born a conversationalist, you know. I was born as shy as the next one, but I gritted my teeth and forced myself to converse. And so can Sarah Nancy.”

Sometimes, though, even the most irresistible forces founder against immovable objects, which Sarah Nancy definitely is. The great pleasure of “Blind Date” comes from watching Ms. Foote’s Dolores progress from determination to desperation and, finally, desolation, as her efforts at matchmaking go splat. The play ends in a significant — and not altogether unhappy — state of wordlessness.

The stakes are raised for “The One-Armed Man,” also set in 1928. It, too, centers on a master of Southern loquacity, one C. W. Rowe (Jeremy Bobb), the prosperous owner of a cotton mill and a logorrheic cheerleader for can-do American capitalism. He rules his office with a strut, extolling his accomplishments and the culture that fostered them. Even alone and unspeaking, Mr. Bobb exudes the impregnable satisfaction of a lord and master of all he surveys.

He can’t begin to understand the defeatism of employees like the weary Pinkey (Mr. Abner) or the laconic McHenry (Alexander Cendese), an angry young former millworker who lost his job when he lost his arm ginning cotton. Like “Blind Date,” “The One-Armed Man” pits battalions of words against one person’s obdurate silence. And once again, it’s silence that wins.

Both these plays are satisfyingly taut and quick. “The Midnight Caller” meanders, though it has its own period charms. First staged in 1958 at the Sheridan Square Playhouse, “Caller” is set in a boardinghouse occupied by spinsters who must deal with two undesirable new tenants: a man (enough said), played by Mr. Bobb, and a local woman who has been involved in a scandalous love affair (Jenny Dare Paulin).

In its emphasis on the loneliness of small-town women without men, “Caller” directly brings to mind an earlier, much acclaimed play of the same decade, William Inge’s “Picnic.” One character — an old-maid schoolteacher, played by the sterling Jayne Houdyshell — even speaks with a wistful poeticism that I associate more with Inge than with Foote. And for a short play, “Caller” is exceedingly packed with incident and dramatic reversals (a flaw not unknown in Foote’s work).

But it’s fun to visit for a spell with a gallery of female types who showed up regularly in theater, fiction and film of the mid-20th century, like the morally righteous gossip and the bad girl who’s not really so bad. The entertaining cast includes Mary Bacon as a tart-tongued, quick-tempered busybody; Ms. Green as her teary friend; and Mr. Cendese as a ne’er-do-well rich boy.

And, oh yes, Ms. Foote, who plays the small role of the landlady, Mrs. Crawford. In this part she looks much the same as she did in “Blind Date.” And yet without noticeably changing her inflections or posture, Ms. Foote makes Mrs. Crawford a completely different but equally knowable character.

In both plays she emanates an incontrovertible authenticity of time and place and sensibility. She is, to put it simply, the spirit of her father’s artistry made flesh. That means that any chance to see Ms. Foote in Foote is not to be missed.
388 2012-08-15 Al Freeman Jr., a star among a generation of black actors that emerged during the civil rights era, who made his mark in both drama and race relations with his portraits of some of the movement’s most forbidding personalities — angry young men in the 1960s plays of James Baldwin and LeRoi Jones, Malcolm X in a television drama, and the black separatist Elijah Muhammad in Spike Lee’s 1992 movie “Malcolm X” — died on Aug. 9 in Washington. He was 78.

His death was announced by Howard University, where he had been chairman of the theater arts department since 2005. No cause was disclosed.

Mr. Freeman’s lucid fury and psychological insight made him a favorite of literary black playwrights in the 1960s. He made his Broadway debut in 1960 in “The Long Dream,” a stage adaptation of a novel by Richard Wright, playing a black undertaker’s son who discovers his father’s complicity in the racial oppression at the heart of small-town life.

He starred on Broadway again in 1962 with Cicely Tyson, Roscoe Lee Browne and Alvin Ailey in “Tiger Tiger Burning Bright,” a pessimistic depiction of a black family’s life in New Orleans at the end of World War II. And he returned to Broadway in 1964 to play the ill-fated pastor’s son Richard Henry in Mr. Baldwin’s play “Blues for Mister Charlie,” loosely based on the story of Emmett Till, the 14-year-old black youth murdered in Mississippi in 1955 after supposedly flirting with a white woman.

The same year, at the St. Mark’s Playhouse in the East Village, Mr. Freeman played a poet-revolutionary leading a race war in a production of “The Slave,” by Mr. Jones, now known as Amiri Baraka, which concludes with the sound of gunshots and a simulated bombing, the stage left covered in rubble. “Al Freeman Jr. is brilliant,” the critic Howard Taubman wrote in The New York Times, praising his performance for its “taut intelligence.”

Mr. Freeman viewed his role as a black actor during that time as part of a larger, unfolding drama, he told interviewers. “I wasn’t down there on the front lines with Martin Luther King, or preparing myself with the Black Panthers,” he told Ebony magazine in 1993. But bringing life to characters in plays like “Blues for Mister Charlie” and “The Slave,” he added, “That was my activism.”
389 2012-08-15 Re “4 Decades On, U.S. Starts Cleanup of Agent Orange in Vietnam” (news article, Aug. 10):

The American war in Vietnam was a shameful folly on a vast scale. But even in that sad spectacle there are some chapters that stand out.

During the war the United States dumped an ocean of toxic defoliants on a small, impoverished agrarian society. Large swaths of the country remain severely contaminated to this day. And tens of thousands of Vietnamese endure horrendous birth defects that can credibly be linked to our use of Agent Orange.

The fact that it has taken four decades for us to begin a cleanup on a single site is an embarrassment that should anger all Americans, whatever their views on the war. And the fact that we have provided negligible support to families struggling with crushing medical problems caused by our indiscriminate use of toxins is even more shameful.

If we want to exorcise some of the ghosts of the Vietnam War, we should begin by financing a more widespread cleanup and by providing serious support to the families struggling with the birth defects that are one of the legacies of our invasion of their country.

In 1966 I helped establish a plastic surgery hospital in Saigon, to which Vietnamese mothers from areas sprayed with Agent Orange brought their badly deformed children. The mothers said this problem had not occurred before “the planes sprayed the mist.”
390 2012-08-15 Jamie Brickhouse, Helen Gurley Brown’s publicist, remembers the editor through her letters. He called her Googoo; she called him Pussycat. Click on the notes in the right-hand column to read his annotations. Related Article »
391 2012-08-15 ATLANTA (AP) — Home Depot is feeling more optimistic about the recovery of the housing market after customers spent more on sprucing up their homes in the second quarter.

The retailer said on Tuesday that strong cost controls and healthy sales of paint, bathroom accessories and kitchen installations helped lift its net income by 12.4 percent during the period.

The Atlanta-based company increased its full-year outlook, citing its performance in the first half.

In a conference call with investors, Home Depot’s chairman and chief executive, Frank Blake, noted that some of the strongest growth in the latest quarter came from the markets that were hit hardest in the downturn, like California and Florida.

“These are encouraging signs of stabilization in the housing market,” Mr. Blake said.

He also noted that the housing market was now a contributor to the country’s gross domestic product, rather than a drag. Another positive sign for Home Depot was the Commerce Department announcement Tuesday that Americans increased their retail spending in July for the first time in four months, as spending increased on furniture and building materials, among other items.

Still, the housing market is a long way from returning to its heyday before the recession. Home Depot’s sales in the quarter rose just 2 percent from a year earlier. And although the company lifted its earnings forecast for the year, it did not update its outlook that sales for the year would grow by 4.6 percent.
392 2012-08-15 Mr. Clinton also invoked Gershwin in his remarks, recounting a story from Mr. Hamlisch’s memoir, “The Way I Was,” in which Mr. Hamlisch’s father noted to the young Marvin that Gershwin had already written a concerto at his age and wondered why his son had not kept pace.

“We are Marvin’s concerto,” Mr. Clinton said. He observed that Mr. Hamlisch had lived and worked some 30 more years than Gershwin, and, “certainly, nobody did it better.”

Howard Stringer, chairman of the Sony Corporation, described Mr. Hamlisch as a “merry minstrel” with a “mischievous smile.”

Mr. Stringer recounted his and Mr. Hamlisch’s longtime tradition of holding secular, star-studded Christmas parties (he estimated that half the attendees were Jewish), where Mr. Hamlisch would rewrite holiday songs to include the names of their guests. Among the compositions featured at these gatherings, Mr. Stringer said, was a reworking of “The 12 Days of Christmas” in which the phrase “five golden rings” was replaced with “Mort Zuckerman,” and a version of “White Christmas” sung by Nora Ephron that began with the neglected lyrics:

The sun is shining, the grass is green,

There’s never been such a day

More traditional readings at the funeral included verses from the Book of Ecclesiastes and a poem by Hayyim Nahman Bialik, who wrote: “Oh, he had one more melody, and now that melody is lost forever, lost forever.”

Statements of condolence were also read from President Obama and Michelle Obama, and from Nancy Reagan, who said that she sometimes liked to sing along with Mr. Hamlisch when he would perform for her and President Reagan. “Luckily,” Mrs. Reagan wrote, “his piano music drowned out my voice.”

The funeral’s guest list offered a collision of talents from various decades and disciplines — sometimes almost literally, as when a swarm of paparazzi descended upon Mike Nichols and Diane Sawyer, allowing Bernadette Peters, who arrived at the same time, to slip in unnoticed. Other attendees included Liza Minnelli, Alan Alda, Brian d’Arcy James, Leslie Uggams, Tony Roberts and Richard Gere.

Speaking outside the synagogue before the funeral, Kelli O’Hara, who got an early Broadway break in a 2002 musical adaptation of “Sweet Smell of Success” (with music by Mr. Hamlisch), said she first met him without quite realizing it at her audition for the show.

“I didn’t have an appointment, and he was there, and I didn’t know who he was,” she said. “I bossed him around, and he played for me because the pianist was at lunch, and I snapped my fingers to make him go faster. And he laughed and I got the job.”

At the funeral the composer Richard Kagan, a lifelong friend of Mr. Hamlisch’s, spoke of meeting the man he affectionately called “my nemesis” when they worked in the 1960s at a girls’ camp in the Poconos. They each wrote songs for camp musicals, and Mr. Hamlisch’s, he said, were invariably more popular with the young women.

After Mr. Hamlisch won his Academy Awards in 1974 for his contributions to “The Sting” and “The Way We Were,” Mr. Kagan said Mr. Hamlisch called him in a melancholy mood, wondering if he would ever be happy. Mr. Kagan added, “I can tell you that in the end, Marvin was happy.”

Before a performance of the “Chorus Line” song “What I Did for Love,” which attendees were invited to join, Mr. Hamlisch’s widow, Terre Blair Hamlisch, spoke of the small domestic joy her husband took when he could get her to admit he’d been right about something.

She recalled remarks that Mr. Hamlisch had recently made about the music he had composed for a coming HBO movie about Liberace, saying that he did not think that he was irreplaceable on the project, but felt that he could bring experience and a unique voice to it.

“Well, Marvin, you were wrong,” Mrs. Hamlisch said.

“You are not replaceable,” she said, “and the world is saying it loudly now.”
393 2012-08-15 Stocks were mixed in light trading on Tuesday, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index falling for a second day, as a slump in technology and financial shares reversed an earlier rally that followed a report of better-than-expected retail sales.

Hewlett-Packard and Cisco Systems posted the biggest declines in the Dow Jones industrial average. The S.& P. 500 financials index slipped 0.1 percent after earlier rising as much as 0.7 percent.

The S.& P. 500 fell 0.18 point, or 0.01 percent, to 1,403.93. The Dow added 2.71 points, or 0.02 percent, to 13,172.14.

Stocks rose early in the day after the Commerce Department reported that retail sales climbed more than forecast in July as consumer spending rebounded at department stores, auto dealers and electronics outlets. The 0.8 percent advance was the first gain in four months, the agency’s figures showed. Economists projected a 0.3 percent rise, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.

Hewlett-Packard slid 1.3 percent to $19.36, Cisco fell 1 percent to $17.17 and Intel retreated 0.8 percent to $26.48. Juniper Networks dropped 4.5 percent to $18.07, the biggest decline in the S.& P. 500.

Groupon fell 27 percent to $5.51, the lowest level since the company’s initial public offering in November. Groupon, the daily-deal Web site, reported second-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates as economic weakness in Europe curbed online coupon sales. Revenue rose 45 percent to $568.3 million, the company said Monday.
394 2012-08-15 Mr. Hijab explained his defection as a response to the government’s threats against his family, and to his conclusion that the Assad government had no reasonable means to end the violence.

His claims about the weakness of the Assad government could not be independently verified, and he gave few details to support his harsh assessment. Mr. Hijab, a Sunni technocrat from the eastern city of Deir al-Zour — which has been enduring shelling and fighting for weeks — was not a member of Mr. Assad’s inner circle, and he was appointed to the position of prime minister only in June.

But analysts have said that as the highest-level civilian official to defect, he may have had access to reliable internal assessments or government sources. His argument that the government is weakening follows similar descriptions from other defectors, who have suggested that Mr. Assad’s grip on power has been loosening even as Syria increasingly becomes the arena for a proxy war, with Iran and Russia assisting the government as Turkey, Qatar and Saudi Arabia funnel military aid to the rebels, supplemented with nonlethal assistance from the United States.

The Obama administration has resisted an intensified clamor by Syrian insurgents for military help from the United States, including ammunition and the imposition of a no-fly zone in Syria to deter the Syrian air force from bombing rebel targets. While the administration has not ruled out any option on Syria, American officials have repeatedly said they do not want to further militarize the conflict. Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta reiterated that view in an interview on Monday with The Associated Press, asserting that plans for a no-fly zone in Syria were “not on the front burner as far as I know.”

In Aleppo, where communications seemed to be limited, fighting continued Tuesday, with the rebels saying they were trying to hold contested areas amid an extended government assault.

In and around Damascus, activists reported heavy shelling and growing numbers of refugees flowing out of the city. One activist reported that in the suburb of Qudsaya, dozens of shells landed in a single hour, destroying homes and injuring residents.

In the city, heavy clashes were reported in the neighborhood of Tadamon, a rebel-controlled area that abuts Yarmouk, Syria’s largest Palestinian neighborhood, and in an area called Qabbon, where sectarian fighting between Alawites and Sunnis appeared to have caused a mass exodus.

“A cycle of endless violence seems to have been set off,” said an activist in Damascus who declined to give his name. “Everyone I know in Qabbon has said they are fleeing before ‘we get slaughtered.’ That’s what they told me.”
395 2012-08-15 Could another Clinton presidency be on the horizon? We'll just have to wait and see -  Chelsea Clinton , for one, is not ruling out a run someday for elected office.In  a wide-ranging article in Vogue magazine , the former first daughter and close...
396 2012-08-15 BROWN--Helen Gurley, editor-in-chief of Cosmopolitan magazine's 64 international editions and one of the world's most popular and influential editors, died August 13, 2012, after a brief hospitalization at the McKeen Pavilion at NewYork-Presbyteri...
397 2012-08-15 BROWN--Helen Gurley. The Board and Staff of The New York Landmarks Conservancy mourn the loss of our great friend and "Landmark" honoree Helen Gurley Brown. She loved this City and its possibilities and made the most of them. It was wonderful know...
398 2012-08-16 Vice magazine's annual photo issue, showcasing a selection of projects by some of the magazine's favorite photographers, is equal parts weird, beautiful and grotesque....
399 2012-08-16 Emerald Green Group, which runs the Philadelphia restaurant Beau Monde, plans to reopen the space as a smaller, more rustic spot in 2013....
400 2012-08-16 South African riot police officers opened fire on striking miners armed with machetes and sticks at Lonmin’s Marikana platinum mine, killing at least 30 people....
401 2012-08-16 Gentlemen's clubs in Tampa, Fla., and Charlotte, N.C., are extending a friendly welcome to conventiongoers - even as officials in both parties warn against partaking....
402 2012-08-16 The site of Barack and Michelle Obama's first kiss is now marked in granite at a corner in Chicago....
403 2012-08-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
404 2012-08-16 An executive at Gamma Group, a British company that sells surveillance technologies, denied that a spyware program running on servers in 11 countries was developed by his company....
405 2012-08-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
406 2012-08-16 The actress will play one of the richest female roles in New York theater this fall when the critically acclaimed British play about family alienation and the limits of loyalty comes to Off Broadway....
407 2012-08-16 Square will drop the processing fees for small businesses using its service, offering a flat-rate plan in an effort to entice more of them to sign up....
408 2012-08-16 The deal to pay $3.6 billion for airwaves owned by Time Warner Cable, Comcast, Cox Communications and Bright House Networks still needs approval from the Federal Communications Commission...
409 2012-08-16 MF Global investigation could end without criminal charges. | Paul Ryan's budget and the economy. | Jay-Z rewrites investor playbook with Nets arena in Brooklyn....
410 2012-08-16 MF Global investigation could end without criminal charges. | Paul Ryan’s budget and the economy. | Jay-Z rewrites investor playbook with Nets arena in Brooklyn.
411 2012-08-16 Up Next in Video
412 2012-08-16 Mercedes-Benz USA released pricing information for its 2013 model line. The Maybachs received only one word: "Discontinued."...
413 2012-08-16 The impassioned disputes over minuscule outcroppings of rock in East Asian waters can be hard to fathom. The fights and standoffs are not about oil or gas, fish or real estate. They're about pride....
414 2012-08-16 “When you start with the proposal the owners made, how could it be otherwise?” Fehr said.

For the first time, Bettman publicly alluded to the deals the N.F.L. and N.B.A. owners secured last year, when players agreed to substantial across-the-board salary cuts after the leagues locked them out.

“I’m not sure that there’s yet been a recognition of the economics in our world, and I mean the greater world and the sports industry, taking into account what recently happened with the N.F.L. and the N.B.A.,” Bettman said of the union proposal.

“Players in other industries and other sports have recognized the need to make adjustments,” Bettman said. “We’re hoping that ultimately the union here will be in a position to focus on things the same way.”

Bettman said it was constructive that the union was not challenging the concept of a salary cap, which the owners imposed after the season-long 2004-5 lockout.

Fehr said the union proposal was designed to address the financial problems experienced by a half dozen or so struggling clubs and was “a pretty substantial gesture” in the owners’ direction.

“It’s not a circumstance where the players are going to say, O.K., take everything from us,” Fehr said.

Fehr also referred to Bettman’s citation of the recent N.F.L. and N.B.A. agreements.

“It looks like there’s a playbook out there that people are following,” he said. “I hope not but so far, there aren’t many differences.”

Fehr pointed out the “glaring omission” of baseball in Bettman’s statement. Fehr was the union head for baseball players starting in 1983 and the sport has had labor peace since 1995.

“When we hear the references to the other sports, I think they’re references designed to make a point, which is: Why can’t we be like football and basketball?” Fehr said. “We could say the same thing — why can’t we be like baseball?”

Negotiations will continue in Toronto, but Fehr and Bettman will not meet again until next Wednesday and Thursday.

Bettman said there was “not much time to go.” He criticized the union for taking an additional month to make an offer after the owners’ offer was made on July 13. He said the union still had additional points to propose.

“It’s a little disappointing not to have their full slate of proposals at this point with a month to go,” Bettman said.

Fehr said the owners “have almost everything” from the players and added that only the owners have said they would shut the league down if the current agreement expires.

“There’s only one party here that’s talking about Sept. 15,” Fehr said. “The players haven’t threatened a job action; it hasn’t even been discussed. Hopefully it won’t.”

However, Fehr said the players were ready for a lockout.

“We have been advising the players to prepare for a couple of years for a worst-case analysis,” Fehr said. “You always do. You hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.”
415 2012-08-16 The judge presiding over an intellectual property dispute between Apple and Samsung Electronics said on Wednesday that the chief executives of the two companies should talk again before the jury begins its deliberations.

“I’m going to make one more request that C.E.O.’s from both sides speak by phone,” Judge Lucy Koh said in Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif. “I see risks here for both sides.”

Judge Koh earlier this year ordered Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, to meet face to face with his counterpart at Samsung, Choi Gee Sung. That meeting failed to produce a settlement.

“It’s at least worth one more try,” Judge Koh said Wednesday. She has given each side 25 hours to present its case. Jury deliberations may begin as early as Aug. 21, the judge said.

Lawyers for both sides said they would comply.

Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued. The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone market valued at more than $200 billion.

Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages, contending that Samsung infringed on its patent and trade secrets. The company, based in Cupertino, Calif., also wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on sales of a Samsung tablet in the United States and to extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.

Samsung, based in South Korea, is trying to persuade the jury to find Apple’s patents invalid and to award unspecified damages for what it contends are infringement of its patents.
416 2012-08-16 “It could be only a tactical tool in order to push some of the other countries,” said Giora Eiland, another former national security adviser, who is a senior research fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “They believe that in order to create enough pressure, to enhance the economic sanctions, the only way to do it is by creating the credibility behind the military option. The only way to create credibility is, No. 1, to improve the military readiness and, No. 2, to make a clear announcement that’s what we mean to do.”

While Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Barak have been criticized as “messianic” in their thinking on the Iranian nuclear issue and are widely viewed as ready, if not eager, to take military action to stop it, Mr. Dayan said they would prefer that the United States led any attack, even if that meant waiting until after the November presidential election. But “they have to make the decision whether to strike or not before November,” he said, so they need to hear from Mr. Obama “in the coming two weeks, in the coming month.”

“I’ve known them a very long time,” said Mr. Dayan, who served with Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Barak in the elite combat unit Sayeret Matkal. “They will make such a decision of striking only if they feel that there is no other way. They will do it only as the last, last thing, but then they will be pretty determined about it.”

Eytan Gilboa, a political scientist at Bar-Ilan University, said the series of leaks, in which both Washington and Jerusalem are trying to influence each other and the Israeli public, “exposes some serious differences between the two countries.”

“It’s an issue of trust and time that are dividing now Israel and the United States, and this is a little bit dangerous,” Mr. Gilboa said. “If you have trust, time is less important. If you have time, then mistrust is also not so bad. If you have both mistrust and a shortage of time, then it’s a recipe for disagreement and misperception.”

Emily Landau, an Iran specialist at the Institute for National Security Studies, said the danger was that the latest round of public discussion primarily framed the Iranian nuclear question as a threat to Israel, rather than as a global issue of nuclear proliferation. While Mr. Obama said in March that his policy was one of prevention, not containment, Ms. Landau noted, “he stopped short of putting some kind of red line behind that.”

“The red line needs to be coming from Washington to Iran; those are the red lines that matter,” she said. “If Obama would make a clear statement that would have the double effect of deterring Iran and reassuring Israel, it would take all the air out and maybe allow decision makers to hold on to something that’s strategically real.”

For now, with newspapers awash in headlines about holes in domestic preparedness, some Israelis are scrambling to get gas masks, which about 53 percent of the public already has. At Hadar Mall in Jerusalem, the wait on a recent day was about two hours, though people could take a number and shop for school supplies until it was called.

About 30 people sat quietly in chairs as a film loop describing how to use the masks went mostly unwatched.

Mordechai Kirschenbaum, a media consultant and a co-host of a television talk show, said the public was a bit shocked by the airing of different views on how to handle the situation.

“When Israel usually went to war, there was never such a debate prior to the action,” Mr. Kirschenbaum said. “The public is, on one hand, quite scared because you see so many people that are experienced leaders from the past rejecting it and speaking publicly against it. But in the back of their minds they think that maybe Netanyahu and Barak are using it to strengthen the pressure on Washington and on the Iranians and they don’t really mean it.”
417 2012-08-16 In a recent study I estimated that American firms could make up to $3 billion per year by producing and exporting liquefied natural gas. It’s true that gas-dependent industries would have to pay more because of higher gas prices, but those costs would be substantially smaller than the benefits. But there are bigger stakes involved than just money. A decision to constrain natural-gas exports could have dangerous reverberations for American trade.

For example, the United States has filed with the World Trade Organization a challenge to Chinese restrictions on exports of so-called rare earth minerals, which are crucial for new technologies like wind turbines, missiles and smartphones. If Washington hypocritically limits gas exports, it might as well write the Chinese brief.

There are other problems with the opponents’ arguments. To truly keep America’s natural gas within our borders would require restrictions on exports to our big trade partners Canada and Mexico, and that would put the North American Free Trade Agreement at risk. Forswearing exports would also eliminate a valuable tool for American trade negotiators: countries like Japan want privileged access to United States gas, and American negotiators can seek concessions in return.

At the same time, exports would likely reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, the small price increases that would result from allowing exports would have at most a marginal impact on the use of natural gas as fuel for cars and trucks. Blocking exports wouldn’t push natural gas into automobiles — it would mostly keep it in the ground, because there would be less incentive to extract it.

But the critics are right to point out that exporting natural gas could increase environmental risks to communities where natural gas is extracted. Even so, a recent report from the International Energy Agency makes clear that inexpensive steps could substantially mitigate those dangers. It will take years before any export terminals are up and running — in the meantime, producers and regulators should strengthen safeguards so that gas is extracted safely.

Exports would also raise natural gas prices a bit, adding as much as $50 to the annual electric bills for the poorest American households by the end of the decade. But the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program could help shield the most vulnerable as long as its financing is protected.

The United States, which has imported natural gas for many years, has long benefited from a relatively open system for global trade in energy. Allowing natural-gas exports while protecting the environment and low-income consumers is the right way to go.
418 2012-08-16 Re “Shopper Alert: Price May Drop for You Alone” (front page, Aug. 10):

You report that grocers charge different people different prices for the same products at the same time. Such pricing practices can lead to higher prices to disfavored races or genders. Studies have found that many lenders charge minorities more than whites and that auto dealers charge both African-Americans and women more.

Federal law bars discrimination in lending. Perhaps it is time to enact laws prohibiting discrimination in retailing.

The writer is a professor of law at St. John’s University and co-coordinator of the Consumer Law and Policy Blog.
419 2012-08-16 “You won’t believe it,” Olajuwon said in a telephone interview from his ranch outside Houston.

The apprenticeship began on Aug. 6, with daily three-hour sessions on Olajuwon’s private court. Stoudemire has proved a quick study, assimilating moves and countermoves as fast as Olajuwon can demonstrate them.

“It’s night and day,” Olajuwon said. “What’s so nice is he wants it; he likes the post. He’s always wanted to play there, but he doesn’t have the moves that would give him that option.”

Since retiring in 2002, Olajuwon has become the N.B.A.’s go-to source for players hoping to develop their post skills. LeBron James, Dwight Howard and Kobe Bryant have visited the Olajuwon ranch. So have Marcin Gortat and the Lopez twins, Brook and Robin. This month, it’s Stoudemire and Denver’s JaVale McGee.

Most players come for about four days, Olajuwon said. Stoudemire is staying for two weeks. His motivation is clear.

Stoudemire’s 17.5-point scoring average in 2011-12 was his worst in a full season since his rookie year. His .483 field-goal percentage was the lowest since his second season. He had his shot blocked 1.3 times per game, furthering speculation that his body was breaking down (although, in fact, that rate was close to his career average).

When the season began, Stoudemire was still dealing with the aftermath of an injured back muscle. In February, his older brother, Hazell, was killed in a car accident, which took a tremendous emotional toll. Stoudemire sustained another back injury (a bulging disk) in late March.

The final injury was self-inflicted and humiliating — a lacerated left hand sustained when Stoudemire smashed a glass fire-extinguisher cover in the Miami arena, after a Game 2 loss to the Heat.

Stoudemire returned to help lead the Knicks to a series-saving Game 4 victory, but the damage to his reputation was done. And although he is known for a high work ethic, Stoudemire had reason to work a little harder this summer.

“This is the most engaged I’ve seen him in years,” said Happy Walters, Stoudemire’s agent. He added, “I think fans will be happy.”

They will be happier still if Stoudemire’s new skills foster a better dynamic with Carmelo Anthony, his All-Star tag-team partner. Stoudemire was a dominant scorer when he joined the Knicks, but his role and production diminished once Anthony arrived in February 2011. The Knicks have a losing record with Anthony and Stoudemire in the lineup, and every advanced statistic shows they are worse when both stars are on the court.

Now Stoudemire has lost the coach (Mike D’Antoni) and the offensive system that made him a star in Phoenix and New York. Without a steady diet of pick-and-roll plays, he will need other ways to score. Enter Olajuwon.

Mike Woodson, the new coach, was Olajuwon’s teammate for two years, and the two remain friends. It was Woodson’s idea to send Stoudemire to Houston.

“The coach, he has a good vision,” Olajuwon said cheerfully.

Even at 29, Stoudemire has the strength, quickness and agility to be an effective post scorer once he masters the footwork and timing.

“His spin is becoming so sharp and crisp,” Olajuwon said. “He could spin all day. He loves it.”

Until now, Stoudemire hardly needed a post game. In his first season in the league he was a high-flying 20-year-old — the Blake Griffin of his generation — before developing a sharp midrange jumper that made him nearly unguardable. He has averaged at least 20 points in seven of his N.B.A. seasons, with a career shooting percentage of .533.

Stoudemire has also played most of his career for D’Antoni, whose offense is predicated on spacing and movement, not dump-it-in-the-post sets. When Stoudemire was averaging 37 points against Tim Duncan in the Western Conference finals, no one saw much need for a low-post game.

“We had so much success with him, averaging almost 60 wins a year in Phoenix with the system the way it was,” said Phil Weber, who was on D’Antoni’s staff in both Phoenix and New York. “He could have posted up, but he was so successful.”

But circumstances have changed. D’Antoni is gone. Woodson is installing a more traditional offense. Anthony is dominating the ball on the wing. Stoudemire has little choice but to evolve.

“To now develop a post game is going to be remarkable for me,” Stoudemire told Fox 26 in Houston. “It’s going to catch a lot of my opponents off guard, and it’s going to be a great year for me.”

Olajuwon sounds just as eager to see Stoudemire unleash his new moves in the fall — and to see Woodson’s reaction. Woodson attended the first workout last week and was “very happy,” Olajuwon said.

“But if he sees now, if he sees him today,” Olajuwon continued, chuckling, “he would not believe. I’m excited.”
420 2012-08-16 State officials, billing the meeting as an opportunity to strategize with industry leaders about how to help ensure that the fast-growing industry continues to prosper, made accommodations for television trucks and offered special Yogurt Summit news media credentials, the kind of preparations more often associated with events like governors’ inaugurations and State of the State addresses. No room in the governor’s office was big enough to accommodate the crowd, so Mr. Cuomo’s team held the gathering at the theater, called, fittingly for a meeting about a breakfast staple, the Egg.

“I would just suggest that the next Yogurt Summit be held in a building that looks like a milk bottle,” one dairy farmer, Michael McMahon, offered.

The Cuomo administration designed a logo for the meeting, featuring a cow with a spot on its side in the shape of New York State, and the governor wore a lapel pin with the yogurt logo. The administration also commissioned a custom-made backdrop, printed with “New York State Yogurt Summit” in capital letters, for Mr. Cuomo and other dignitaries to sit in front of, like professional athletes at a Super Bowl news conference.

There was, naturally, plenty of yogurt — several tubs of it, in fact, featuring New York-based industry leaders like Chobani and Fage, as well as lesser-known yogurt concerns, like Siggi’s (an Icelandic-style brand made in Chenango County) and Müller (a German company that is building a plant with PepsiCo in Batavia). It was possible, if not advisable, to eat yogurt for hours on end; Mr. Cuomo is known for keeping his meeting rooms cold, so there was little risk that the yogurt would go bad.

Mr. Cuomo praised the yogurt industry’s growth as “staggering” and “unbelievable”: 29 yogurt plants, up from 14 in 2000; 1.2 billion pounds of milk used annually; 8,070 people employed. Chobani, for example, which started in 2005 with 5 employees, now has 1,200 in New York State.

The State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said he hoped New York would become “the yogurt capital of the United States, if not the world.” And Dean Norton, the president of the New York Farm Bureau, suggested yogurt could provide New York with an agricultural version of California’s Silicon Valley — the “yogurt empire,” in his words.

Much of the gathering was devoted to the finer points of yogurt production, like whey disposal and manure management: the president of the New York Power Authority was on hand to discuss new efforts to convert cow waste into energy.

There were, of course, concerns, as well. Darrel J. Aubertine, Mr. Cuomo’s agriculture commissioner, announced that the administration would seek to encourage smaller farms to expand by increasing the herd size that prompts a costly regulatory process to 300 cows from 200; the change was greeted with concern by environmental groups. The meeting was also protested by people opposed to Mr. Cuomo’s expected plan to allow limited hydraulic fracturing in New York, which environmentalists worry could taint groundwater; demonstrators, some dressed as cows, pleaded, “Save our yogurt, ban fracking.”

Mr. Cuomo’s joy was unfettered. He described his vision for the yogurt industry as a “cluster economy” that would provide a “synergistic environment” for all types of yogurt-related businesses.

“This is a new day,” he said of government-yogurt industry relations. “Let’s seize the moment.”
421 2012-08-16 The Food and Drug Administration issued a warning on Wednesday after three children died from respiratory arrest caused by regular doses of codeine after surgery to treat sleep apnea. The agency cautioned parents and health workers to watch for symptoms of overdose, like unusual sleepiness, difficulty being aroused or awakened, confusion or noisy and difficult breathing.
422 2012-08-16 “Nobody talks about how frugal she was. Other people call it cheap. I’ll call it frugal. She would take buses and get to meetings late because she wouldn’t take a car or a taxi. Michael Korda and I were co-editors on ‘Having It All,’ and she had the spectacular penthouse in the Beresford and it was always freezing because she wouldn’t put the heat on.” Joni Evans, her book editor

“One of the quixotic Helen personality features was that she did not even have a credit card. She used to count out the dollar bills. If she went to lunch, she would take home whatever she didn’t finish so she could eat it later. She got presents and then a month before Christmas she would recycle them and give them to people. She gave me a bar of chocolate, and I opened it and there was her name engraved on it. It was hysterical. She just wasn’t going to spend a dime.”

Ellen Levine, editorial director of Hearst and former Cosmopolitan staffer

“We gave a party once at the Pierre hotel, and Helen came in wearing the most beautiful diamond earrings with emeralds. About an hour or two later she called and said, ‘Did I leave a pair of earrings at the party?’ I said, ‘No.’ She said, ‘I’m going to put an ad for a $1,000 reward for the earrings.’ I said, ‘$10,000 for those earrings. Otherwise, you’ll never get them back.’ She said, ‘Really?’ I said, ‘Yes, $10,000.’ They were probably worth a lot more than that. She said, ‘O.K.’ She called me back a couple days later. She said, ‘I got the earrings back.’ Whether Helen gave the reward I do not know.” Leonard A. Lauder, chairman emeritus,

“When we did ‘Having It All,’ there was a section on how to connect to a man. And there was a list in there of all the things you could send them. One of them was that you should take a strand of your pubic hair, have it encased in plastic, make it into a paperweight for the desk of the man you loved. And I remember Joni and I arguing for hours if not days about first, whether this made any sense at all, and second, whether it could be in the book.” Michael Korda, book editor

“Eventually we staged an intervention and got it out. I said, ‘Helen, where you see a talisman, other people see ‘flush the toilet.’ She was fabulous.” Liz Smith

“I did an event with her. I was 14 days away from giving birth and she could have cared less I was pregnant. There I was, huge and fat and tired, and she had coral lipstick on, hair pulled back, and she was in a miniskirt. She might even have been in fishnets. And the thing that was the most memorable was that the conversation turned to Walter Cronkite and Joanna Simon, who were a couple. And Helen told this story about Joanna wanted him to propose and he hadn’t, and she said: ‘You have to move out. Play hard to get.’ David just sat there shaking his head. I think she was constantly pushing the boundaries, but he adored her because of that. There was a unique affection, I think partly because they didn’t have children and hadn’t had their affections displaced. Sometimes people seem like they’re riding out the clock. These two were enthralled with each other.”

“There wouldn’t have been Carrie Bradshaw without Helen Gurley Brown.”

“She and David didn’t have children and she realized you can’t take it with you. She was interested in giving young women with modest backgrounds an ability to fulfill their dreams. That meant a lot to her.” Nicholas Lemann, dean of
423 2012-08-16 Formaldehyde, which last year was identified by government scientists as a carcinogen, is released over time by common preservatives like quaternium-15 and DMDM hydantoin, which do appear on labels. And 1,4 dioxane, which has been linked to cancer in animal studies, is created during a process commonly used to make other ingredients gentler on the skin.

The company also plans to phase out other ingredients that have been linked to health problems, including phthalates, which have a variety of uses, like lessening the stiffening effects of hair spray; several fragrance ingredients; and triclosan, an antibacterial substance used in soaps. Johnson & Johnson will remove all parabens, a type of preservative, from baby products and some other parabens from its adult products.

Ms. Nettesheim said the project was a major undertaking and would require extensive spending on research and development to find suitable alternatives to the ingredients, most of which are common in the industry. She said new suppliers needed to be located and vetted, and testing was needed to ensure the replacements were also safe. The company declined to say how much the project would cost.

Then there’s the delicate task of tinkering with products that have been popular for generations. The company’s baby shampoo, for example, has been marketed for more than 50 years.

“Consumer acceptance is really important,” Ms. Nettesheim said. “It really doesn’t help you if you reformulate products and people don’t like it.”

Lisa Archer, director of the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, said her group would continue to press other cosmetics and consumer-goods companies to follow Johnson & Johnson, including the Estée Lauder Companies, Procter & Gamble, Avon and L’Oreal.

In 2010, Procter & Gamble reformulated its Herbal Essences shampoos to limit the amount of 1,4 dioxane to only trace amounts, and its Tide laundry detergent came under scrutiny from some of the same groups because it contains small amounts of the chemical.

Tim Long, a senior science fellow at P.& G., said the company communicates openly with consumers about the ingredients it uses. All of its products meet regulatory requirements, he said.

In a statement, Estée Lauder said it adheres to stringent safety standards for all of its products and complies with regulations in every country in which its products are sold.

Johnson & Johnson’s decision requires the company to navigate a public relations tightrope, by portraying itself as willing to make extensive changes while simultaneously reassuring consumers that its existing products are safe. The endeavor’s success is even more critical because the company has experienced serious recalls and quality lapses in recent years. On a new Web site that explains the changes to consumers, the company calls it “moving beyond safety.”

“Even though as a scientist I will sit here and tell you these things are perfectly safe,” consumers are worried about reports that call her conclusions into question, Ms. Nettesheim said. “I understand that and we can’t ignore that.”

Mr. Cook, of the Environmental Working Group, disagrees about the safety of the chemicals. But he agreed that there is avid interest in the ingredients on a shampoo bottle, noting that his group maintains a product safety database that has received hundreds of millions of page views. “This is them placing a bet that if they get out in front of this consumer interest, they’re going to win the marketplace,” he said.
424 2012-08-16 It was important for the ProGear line, which includes backpacks and cases for laptops and smartphones, to stay true to the Pelican brand’s reputation for quality and for the ad campaign to reflect that, Mr. Faulkner said. “We are not bringing out fashion statement products,” he said. “There is no Louis Vuitton or Hello Kitty version.”

Social networking is central to the campaign, so the company built a presence on Facebook and YouTube, said Sharon Ward, director of public and media relations at Pelican. “We are talking up the ProGear line, hosting contests, asking for feedback, posting photos,” she said.

The company also hired Jagged Peak, a Web firm in Tampa, Fla., to develop an e-commerce Web site for the ProGear products, which Pelican uses as a communication nexus for blogging and tweeting about the line. When the three adventurers use the products while exploring in real life, the hope is that it will send consumers to the Web site to learn more.

Pelican spent about $5 million on the campaign, far exceeding its typical $1.5 million annual ad budget. The company widened its digital and print presence to include popular magazines like Men’s Journal, Wired and Field & Stream, and commercials are being broadcast on Discovery, Travel and History, among other channels.

“We have tried to surround the brand with as many touch points as possible,” Mr. Winstanley said. “It’s really a great combination of traditional media and digital media that allows the brand to become quickly known and quickly successful.”

Pelican products were already sold at specialty stores like REI, and to gain more retail partners, Pelican also bulked up its presence with in-store racks to display the products. But more important, Mr. Winstanley said, was letting retailers know how extensive the marketing campaign would be, which meant less work for store owners in educating potential buyers.

“When you support this type of brand with media surround, retailers are much more willing to take a chance with a brand they have not seen before,” he said.

With the expanded Web presence, Pelican executives will be able to have quicker access to results from the ad campaign. In the past, they would have to wait months to get feedback from sales representatives about whether a campaign was working. Now, each time a commercial is broadcast on TV, traffic at the ProGear Web site increases significantly.

“It is interesting to watch the spike in activity” corresponding with the advertisements, Mr. Faulkner said, adding that the commercials were “definitely driving people to the Web site.”

With the feedback, the company can tell what works and what doesn’t work. It intends to use the information when it begins similar campaigns in other countries, including Australia, Britain, Canada, France and Germany.

“It’s gratifying because you get this instantaneous feedback,” he added. “That’s the power of the Internet and television.”
425 2012-08-16 Deere & Company, the agricultural equipment maker, reported a lower-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday and cut its outlook, citing production delays and weak sales in China and India.

The company delayed shipments of some new combine harvesters by as long as 14 days during the quarter and conceded some of its deliveries would come after the harvest began for some farmers.

Deere has let some dealers cancel orders, it said.

The new combines Deere introduced this year have 40 percent more parts than the previous model, which puts stress on the company’s supply network.

“The key is that these are not quality or customer-satisfaction issues,” Deere’s chief financial officer, James M. Field, said in a conference call. “They are execution issues, problems we at John Deere know how to fix.”

Agricultural sales should be “down moderately” this year in India and China, and off 5 percent to 10 percent in South America because of a drought in Argentina, the company said. Deere said it expected flat sales in Europe.

For its third fiscal quarter ended July 31, Deere posted net income of $788 million, or $1.98 a share, an 11 percent increase from net income of $712.3 million, or $1.69 a share, a year earlier. But analysts on average had expected earnings of $2.31 a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.

Revenue rose 15 percent to $9.59 billion. Analysts had expected $9.53 billion. But revenue missed the company’s own forecast by $700 million.
426 2012-08-16 European security services keep tabs on the group’s political supporters, but experts say they are ineffective when it comes to tracking the sleeper cells that pose the most danger. “They have real, trained operatives in Europe that have not been used in a long time, but if they wanted them to become active, they could,” said Alexander Ritzmann, a policy adviser at the European Foundation for Democracy in , who has testified before Congress on Hezbollah.

The European Union’s unwillingness to place the group on its list of terrorist organizations is also complicating the West’s efforts to deal with the Bulgarian bus bombing and the Syrian conflict. The week after the attack in , Israel’s foreign minister, , traveled to Brussels for a regular meeting with European officials, where he called for the European Union to include Hezbollah on the list. But his pleas fell on deaf ears.

“There is no consensus among the E.U. member states for putting Hezbollah in the terrorist-related list of the organizations,” Erato Kozakou-Marcoullis, the foreign minister of Cyprus, which holds the European Union’s rotating presidency, said at the time. “Should there be tangible evidence of Hezbollah engaging in acts of terrorism, the E.U. would consider listing the organization.”

The stark difference in views reflects the many roles that Hezbollah has played since it emerged in Lebanon after the Israeli invasion in 1982. Hezbollah’s militant wing was responsible for a string of kidnappings and for sophisticated bombings at home and has been accused of bombings abroad. But the group also became a source of social services that the shattered Lebanese government was incapable of providing, and has evolved since then into a political force with two cabinet ministers and a dozen seats in .

“They are quite professional in this, and this is something some Western donors are admitting that has a positive impression on some Western politicians,” said Stephan Rosiny, a research fellow at the Institute of Middle East Studies at the German Institute of Global and Area Studies in .

That in turn provides a rationale for the group’s charitable networks among Lebanese immigrants in Europe. “They may collect money for their institutions, but they aren’t operating publicly,” Mr. Rosiny said. “As long as they aren’t involved in politics and aren’t operating openly, they are tolerated.”

From all indications to date, it is an arrangement that Hezbollah is eager to preserve. The group’s secretary general, , has said that a European blacklist would have an adverse effect on Hezbollah.  It “would dry up the sources of finance,” he said, “end moral, political and material support, stifle voices, whether they are the voices of the resistance or the voices which support the resistance, pressure states which protect the resistance in one way and another, and pressure the Lebanese state, Iran and Iraq, but especially the Lebanese state, in order to classify it as a state which supports terrorism.”

And Hezbollah’s defenders note that no hard evidence has been produced tying the group to the Bulgarian bus bombing.

Experts question how effectively European police officials are keeping track of the kind of serious, well-trained operatives capable of staging attacks versus counting up donors to funds for orphans of suicide bombers. “I don’t believe that they are able to monitor Hezbollah activities because Hezbollah is such a professional player,” said Guido Steinberg, an expert on terrorism with the German Institute for International and Security Affairs.

“The supporters that march the streets with a Hezbollah flag are not a threat to national security,” Mr. Ritzmann said. “We’re more concerned with small groups — a car dealer, a grocer, or whatever, who operate in a traditional way like a sleeper cell would operate.”

Europe has long been more tolerant of militant Islamic groups than the . Before the 9/11 attacks, maintained a media information office in . Much of the planning and organization for the attacks took place in Hamburg, Germany, where the plot’s leader, , lived.

American officials privately complained for years about Germany’s reluctance to crack down on businesses that circumvent sanctions against Iran. The pressure appears to have paid off, with Germany last year agreeing to include the European-Iranian Trade Bank, based in Hamburg, on a European Union blacklist. On Wednesday, German police officials arrested four men suspected of sending special valves to Iran for use in the building of a heavy-water reactor.

Yet, where the American and Israeli governments see Iran and Hezbollah gearing up their long-dormant capacity for international terrorism, Europeans strongly differentiate between an international terrorist network like Al Qaeda and what is viewed here as a conflict pitting Israel and the United States on one side against Iran, and Hezbollah on the other.

Some analysts say that Shiite groups like Hezbollah pose less of a risk than Sunni militant organizations like Al Qaeda. “The greatest danger from Islamist militants comes from the Salafists, not the Shiites but the Sunnis,” said Berndt Georg Thamm, a terrorism expert in Berlin, referring to a hard-line branch of Sunni Islam. He cited as examples the man who confessed to killing seven people in southwest this year and the gunman who killed two United States airmen at the airport last year. “As far as Europe is concerned, Hezbollah is not what is moving it at the moment.”

The perception gap across the Atlantic is so great that American officials sound more concerned about the threat posed by Hezbollah to Europe than the Europeans themselves. “We assess that Hezbollah could attack in Europe or elsewhere at any time with little or no warning,” said , the State Department’s counterterrorism coordinator, last week as officials from the Treasury and State Departments accused Hezbollah of working with operatives of Iran’s of the to train and advise Syrian government forces.

The declared Hezbollah a terrorist organization in 2004, saying that it did not distinguish between the group’s political and terrorist wings. distinguishes between the parts, listing only the militant wing.

“The British see it as a tool: if you change we take it off the list,” Mr. Ritzmann said. “The French don’t think it’s smart to put them on the terrorist list because they’re such a political actor.”

Mr. Thamm said, “There is no unified common assessment of Hezbollah.” He added, “And that is not something that will change in the foreseeable future.”

Skeptics here in Europe say that as Hezbollah has become more political the group has moved away from its terrorist past, if not forsaken it entirely, and that Israel is stoking fears as it seeks to justify an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities.

Some experts say that security officials on the Continent are resistant to blacklisting the group because they seem to see a tacit détente, where Hezbollah does not stage attacks and European law enforcement officials do not interfere with its fund-raising and organizational work.

“There’s a fear of attracting Hezbollah’s ire and eventually inviting Hezbollah operations in their own countries,” said Bruce Hoffman, a professor of security studies at Georgetown and a terrorism expert.

“Why pick up a rock and see what’s under it?” he asked.
427 2012-08-16 Judge Robert Simpson of the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania seems to assume that legislators have a high-minded public purpose for the laws they pass. That’s why, on Wednesday morning, he refused to grant an injunction to halt a Republican-backed voter ID law that could disenfranchise hundreds of thousands of poor and minority state residents in November.

He wrote in his ruling that requiring a government-issued photo ID card to vote “is a reasonable, nondiscriminatory, nonsevere burden when viewed in the broader context of the widespread use of photo ID in daily life,” as if voting were equivalent to buying a six-pack of beer or driving a car.

The requirement will have a disparate impact on minorities, who tend to lack government IDs at a higher rate than the general population and tend to vote Democratic. Judge Simpson acknowledged he was aware of the remark by Michael Turzai, the Pennsylvania House Republican leader, that the voter ID requirement would win the state for Mitt Romney in November. But there was no proof, he said, that other lawmakers shared that view, and, even if partisan interests were part of the motivation for the law, they are not enough to invalidate it.

There is no evidence that Judge Simpson contorted law and precedent to reach his conclusion. He even described Mr. Turzai’s comment as “disturbing” and “tendentious.” But his ruling, in a case brought by potentially disenfranchised voters, is a clear and disturbing illustration of the way Republicans have manipulated legislation for their own ends, placing a veneer of civic responsibility on a low-minded and sleazy political ploy.

The real reasons for voter ID laws are quite clear. The desire to dampen the Democratic vote after 2006 — and particularly in the wake of President Obama’s election — prompted six states to decide, virtually simultaneously, to pass voter ID laws. Their stated reason — combating voter fraud — is easily dismissed because there are virtually no documented cases of impersonation fraud that could be reduced with an ID card. Mr. Turzai was simply indiscreet; most Republicans know better than to speak the truth out loud.

Judge Simpson acknowledged, as did the state in the lawsuit, that there have been no prosecutions or even investigations of in-person voter fraud in Pennsylvania. He said there wasn’t any evidence of that in Indiana, either, yet the United States Supreme Court upheld a nearly identical ID law there in 2008, so he was obliged to do the same. He also didn’t appear to be very concerned about the burdens that would be placed on the voters who do not currently have ID cards, saying infirm voters could use absentee ballots, which do not require the same level of identification, or get one of the free cards that the state — in a hollow promise — has vowed to distribute.
428 2012-08-16 Caterpillar has said — without promising — that it might also adjust the bottom tier’s wages upward according to local market conditions. The bottom tier represents approximately one-third of the factory’s workers. Their pay generally is $12 to $19 an hour, compared with a $26 average for the top tier, representing two-thirds of the plant’s workers.

Mr. O’Brien and many of his local’s members have repeatedly voiced unhappiness about Caterpillar’s insistence on a six-year wage freeze for the more senior tier, a pension freeze for those workers and a significant increase in the workers’ contributions to health insurance coverage.

“I’m not for this deal,” Mr. O’Brien said. “I haven’t been out on the picket line, doing all these things, so that I now have to put my tail between my legs and say I’m giving up.”

He acknowledged that about 105 of the 780 Caterpillar workers in his local had crossed the picket line since the strike began on May 1.

Caterpillar’s statement announcing the tentative deal added, “By agreement of the parties, we will not be commenting on any specific details of the tentative contract.”

Steve Jones, the top official in Machinists District 8 in Burr Ridge, Ill., and the union leader who reached the deal with Caterpillar, defended the settlement’s terms.

“It does not address every issue for every member, but it deserves to be brought to the membership for a vote,” he said in an interview, noting that many members were under financial strain after nearly four months on strike.

“It shouldn’t be individual leaders, a committee or the district who decide. We should allow the membership to voice their views.”

Mr. Jones added: “We’ve got some local people playing politics with people’s livelihoods. If there was a better agreement out there to be had, we would have taken it.”

But Mr. O’Brien said the parent union was giving up too easily and was feeling stretched from paying about $100,000 each week in strike benefits.

Mr. O’Brien said the deal also called for a $1,000 bonus for each worker upon ratification. Before the walkout began, the workers had voted down an offer that included a $5,000 ratification bonus.

Another Caterpillar demand that angered the workers was its insistence that the factory’s managers be able to indefinitely assign workers to new jobs or shifts regardless of seniority. That upset the workers because it struck at a basic tenet of unionism: seniority preferences.

Under the tentative deal, negotiators said, the company could still assign workers to new jobs or shifts outside of seniority, but only for a maximum of 90 days.

The strikers often insisted that it was wrong for Caterpillar to call for a six-year wage freeze when the company, the world’s leading producer of earth-moving equipment, had record profits of $4.9 billion last year and forecasts stronger earnings this year. Moreover, many strikers bristle at a pay freeze because compensation for Caterpillar’s chief executive, Douglas R. Oberhelman, jumped by 60 percent in 2011, to $16.9 million.

Caterpillar officials said they pushed for a pay freeze for the more senior workers to help the company remain cost-competitive because their pay was above market levels.
429 2012-08-16 But Nadal later repeatedly deemed himself “not ready” or “not in condition” to return, acknowledging the knee as a problem. His camp, meanwhile, provided mixed messages about the severity of his injury.

Updates were posted to Nadal’s Facebook page in the past week saying he had been practicing on the court and had done “some specific work to recover my knee at the gym,” but on Wednesday morning an update said he was “still not ready.”

“I have to continue with my recuperation and preparation to be ready to play in the right conditions,” the update said.

In an interview on Catalan radio, Nadal’s coach and uncle, Toni Nadal, said that his nephew’s season was not over and that he could possibly return for Davis Cup play. Spain will host the United States in the semifinals the weekend after the United States Open. If the Spanish win, they will play in the final in mid-November.

Nadal’s ranking is unlikely to drop far because of his absence from the Open. Andy Murray will have the opportunity to move ahead of Nadal into No. 3, but the gap between the ATP’s so-called Big Four — Roger Federer, Djokovic, Nadal and Murray — and the rest of the tour makes Nadal’s falling to even No. 5 unlikely.

In a news conference Monday at the Western & Southern Open in Mason, Federer, Nadal’s longtime rival, expressed surprise at how much time Nadal had already missed.

“I can’t believe he’s been out that long,” Federer said. “I thought: the Olympics, O.K., that’s fine. That’s a personal choice. I thought for sure we would see him in Toronto, but now he missed Toronto and Cincinnati.

“It’s very surprising, because it was nothing that we heard of before the injury. He played so well on clay and then actually seemed fine at Wimbledon. He had more time by losing earlier at Wimbledon. So it came as a big surprise now, these two pullouts for me. Even the Olympics, too. So I’m sad for him.”

Djokovic, who has played Nadal in four of the last five Grand Slam finals, said the problem must be fairly serious for Nadal to miss a couple of months of play. “I’m sure that if he was able to perform in U.S. Open, he would come,” Djokovic said in Ohio. “So I wish him a quick recovery, obviously.”

Murray, the Olympic champion who is playing in Ohio, said, “I hope he can rest, doesn’t come back too early, and gets them fixed so he can get back to playing his best tennis.”

After confirming the withdrawal on Twitter, Nadal’s public relations manager, Benito Perez-Barbadillo, criticized those who were writing off Nadal’s chances of fully recovering from this injury setback.

“I remember people saying that Rafa would never win Wimbledon,” Perez-Barbadillo said in a Twitter message. “He did win it twice and how many finals?”
430 2012-08-16 Recent reports have suggested that the economy improved somewhat in July. Employers created the most jobs in five months, while consumers spent a little more at stores after three months of declines.

Many investors wonder if the economy is fragile enough to create the sense of urgency for policy makers to act. The slightly better outlook for the economy could prompt the Fed to hold off on taking action when its policy committee next meets in September.

“We’re in a period of very slow growth, though interest rates are low, and very little inflation,” said David R. Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. “Unless the U.S. economy goes into a swoon and there is no pick up in retail sales and deterioration in jobs growth or major shocks from Europe and China, the Fed will not take any action for now.”

The bond market is betting that the Fed is not likely to act. Investors have been selling government bonds in recent days. On Wednesday, the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 25/32, to 98 8/32, and the yield rose to 1.82 percent from 1.73 percent late Tuesday.

In the last few weeks, trading volume in the stock market has been low. On Wednesday, the number of shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange totaled just 2.6 billion, compared with an average of four billion on an average day. Investors may also be holding off on taking aggressive positions ahead of a meeting of the Federal Reserve in Wyoming at the end of this month.

Target, the discount retailer, rose $1.12 to $64.50 after reporting earnings that beat analysts’ expectations and raising its profit forecast for the year. Target is preparing its first expansion out of the United States, into Canada.

Deere, the farm equipment maker, fell $5.03 to $75.10 after reporting results that were well below Wall Street’s expectations. The company attributed its poor results to a slowing global economy and the effects of a prolonged drought in the United States. Deere also cut its revenue forecast for the year.

Staples, the office supplies retailer, fell $1.97 to $11.49 after it said its income dropped 32 percent after weak sales in North America and Europe. The results fell short of analysts’ expectations and the company cut its full-year earnings forecast.
431 2012-08-16 Mr. Caspar, who led Germany’s investigation into Google’s illegal collection of personal Internet data during its Street View project, said he had met with Facebook executives several times on the issue since he opened his investigation in June 2011, but closed it a year later when Facebook appeared to be complying with his demands.

In their meetings, Facebook representatives acknowledged that the company was compiling biometric data on users, Mr. Caspar said, but have maintained that the practice is legal in Ireland, where Facebook’s European operation is incorporated.

Mr. Caspar said he planned to end his investigation and make a formal request to Facebook to amend its practices by the end of September.

Facebook said in a statement that it was not breaking European Union law with facial recognition software, which prompts members to “tag,” or identify, people in photos uploaded to the service.

“We believe that the photo tag suggest feature on Facebook is fully compliant with E.U. data protection laws,” the statement said. “During our continuous dialogue with our supervisory authority in Europe, the Office of the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, we agreed to develop a best practice solution to notify people on Facebook about photo tag suggest.”

Irish officials appeared to dispute that view, and were concluding a second audit of the company’s data protection practices. Gary Davis, Ireland’s deputy data commissioner, said the agency was continuing its talks with Facebook and hoped to reach a settlement on obtaining a consent agreement and on the status of photo archives compiled from European users.

Facebook, Mr. Davis said, had voluntarily agreed to suspend its tagging feature for all Europeans who join the network as of July 1. The situation for others “remains under active discussion,” he said.

“Those discussions are continuing, and we remain hopeful that they will be concluded satisfactorily shortly.”

European data protection officials have limited means to compel global companies like Facebook to alter their businesses to conform with local law.

In Germany, Mr. Caspar could fine Facebook up to 25,000 euros, or about $31,000, should it refuse to destroy its biometric database and alter its consent practices.

He could also sue Facebook and try to obtain a court order to compel it to alter its German operations. But establishing legal jurisdiction would be difficult, especially over a global online company with headquarters in the United States, said Ulrich Börger, a privacy lawyer in Hamburg with the law firm Latham & Watkins.

“The fines are ridiculously small for a company the size of Facebook,” Mr. Börger said. “The most important thing for Facebook is the reputational risk.”

Mr. Caspar said he was exploring that option but agreed that his staff had difficulty establishing jurisdiction over Facebook, which maintains that its activities at its German headquarters in Hamburg are limited to marketing activities, and not the technical and privacy-related functions relevant to Facebook’s collection of biometric data.

In March, in response to the dispute, the European Union’s top advisory panel on privacy, the Article 29 Working Party, released an opinion that the collection of biometric data without the explicit consent of users was illegal.

The decision by the privacy panel, which is made up of regulators from the 27 member countries of the European Union, prompted the Irish regulator to reopen its own negotiations with Facebook. After an audit of Facebook last year, the Irish regulator advised the company that it could simply inform people of its biometric data collection practices and Facebook did so on its Web site this year.

But the decision by the European panel has increased pressure on Irish regulators to toughen their stance.

Ciara O’Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the Irish data protection agency, said that in September it planned to publish the results of an new audit of Facebook’s privacy practices conducted last month.
432 2012-08-16 Money market funds pay next to nothing. Interest rates on United States Treasuries are dismal. The volatile stock market has been dead money for more than a decade.But on Wall Street -- as the old saying goes -- somewhere, someone is making money....
433 2012-08-17 The Premier League season kicks off Saturday with seven games....
434 2012-08-17 Being broadcast in Virginia, Colorado, Iowa, Florida, Ohio and Nevada, the ad tries to draw a contrast between President Obama and the Republican ticket on women's health....
435 2012-08-17 Before @fishermatt became a social media phenomenon, he was a devastated older brother. His sister was just 24 when she died in Baltimore with two degrees from Johns Hopkins University to her name and nothing but promise in front of her.

The insurance machinery began its work relatively quickly. Ms. Fisher had $100,000 in liability coverage per person in this accident, and three people (and the lawyers negotiating for them) wanted a piece of it: a passenger in her car, the driver of the car that hit her and a passenger in that car.

Progressive sized up its legal risks. Three individuals thought Ms. Fisher had run a red light — the police officer who filed the accident report (but who did not witness it), Ms. Fisher’s passenger and the driver of the other vehicle. On the other hand, one eyewitness said that it was the other driver who ran the light.

At that point, Progressive chose to pay the liability claims. “If we determine that we shouldn’t pay any third parties, our insured can get sued and be responsible for any amount over the limit,” said Marcia Marsteller, the business leader in Progressive’s legal department for claims. “If we make the wrong call and don’t pay them and perhaps we should have, there is an issue for her estate.”

Here’s where things get tricky. Liability insurance pays money to injured people even if the policyholder is at fault. But the dispute in court that so infuriated Ms. Fisher’s brother, Matt, also affected a different policy she had — underinsured motorist coverage — that operates under different rules.

That coverage is something you buy if you’re worried about somebody hurting you who doesn’t have much insurance. The driver who hit Ms. Fisher had only $25,000 in liability coverage, and her parents tried to coordinate claims from his company and their daughter’s to collect the $100,000 total that her underinsured motorist insurance covered.

The challenge with the coverage, however, is that it pays you money only if the other driver is at fault. Many states, recognizing the subtleties in assigning blame, will pay out partial claims based on the share of responsibility. But Maryland is among a small number of states where insurance policyholders may get nothing under the terms of their underinsured motorist policies if they’re even 1 percent at fault.

“You’re buying insurance that steps into the shoes of the guy who injured you,” said Tom Baker, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. “It’s kind of a nasty business, because they have to act like they’re the bad guy that hurt you.”

Indeed, that is exactly what ended up happening with the Fishers. Even as Progressive was paying money to the injured people under the terms of Ms. Fisher’s liability policy, her family was making a claim on her underinsured motorist policy that she wasn’t responsible at all.

“She was a very cautious kind of person,” said her mother, Joan Fisher. “She wasn’t a risk taker in any phase of her life. She was almost a nerd. I have never believed that she ran the red light.”

The other driver’s insurance company appeared to be siding with the Fishers when it offered them the full $25,000 that his own liability policy covered. But Progressive, having already assessed the evidence and come to a different conclusion when it paid claims on Ms. Fisher’s liability policy, decided not to pay the full claim on the underinsured motorist coverage.

While the company did engage in settlement negotiations with the Fishers, the two sides could not come to an agreement. “I think they’re still hoping that we are what they originally thought we were: stupid people that they could bully,” Joan Fisher said. “I think they thought that we would just turn our tails down behind us and walk away.”

Instead, the Fishers chose to sue the driver of the other vehicle to determine who was truly at fault in the accident. Armed with a favorable judgment, they could then force Progressive to pay their daughter’s underinsured motorist claim in full.

Progressive didn’t want that to happen, so it filed a motion to intervene in the case and sent its lawyer to court alongside the other driver’s lawyer to make the case that Ms. Fisher was at fault (giving rise to her brother’s accusation that the company defended her killer). The jury sided with the Fishers and determined that she bore no fault at all.

The Fishers’ lawyer, Allen Cohen, said he felt that Progressive’s conduct raised questions about whether the state insurance commissioner would find that the company had acted in bad faith. After all, he explained, two of the witnesses who lined up against Ms. Fisher were not independent, since one had made a liability claim against her insurance policy and another (the other driver) had potential criminal exposure.

“I have no issue in general with insurance companies defending themselves,” he said. “But in this specific case, I have an issue with how they examined the evidence to come to the decision to abandon their insured.”

Progressive sure seems to have done absolutely everything wrong here. It paid out three liability claims, doubled down in court on its interpretation of the evidence that was behind those payouts, lost in court, was roundly mocked online, will pay the underinsured motorist claim to the Fishers after all and is now also paying them a separate settlement to avoid a hearing before the state insurance commissioner.

But Ms. Marsteller of Progressive said that the company was acting in Ms. Fisher’s best interest from the start. “You make a decision and you might get a lawsuit either way,” she said. “Our goal is to make the best decision overall for the insured, and I think we did that here.”

A short personal coda here. I went back and checked my own insurance policy and realized that while I have $1 million of liability coverage, I had the minimum amount of uninsured motorist coverage. My guess is that at the time I made that decision, I figured that my separate health, life and disability coverage would cover me in the event of an accident involving somebody driving around with no insurance.

That seems foolish in retrospect, given all the things that I might have to pay for out of pocket if I were hurt badly. Plus, it cost less than $6 a month to take the underinsured coverage up to $1 million.

The low price seems to indicate that the odds of making a claim are slim. But the Fishers’ experience suggests that having decent coverage is a good idea, and they are now considering increasing their own coverage.

Before their daughter died, they had taken out a home equity loan to pay off some of her student loans. The proceeds from the uninsured motorist claim will allow them to retire the debt. But her mother said that the lawsuit was never about the money for them. “This is the last that the world will ever hear of my daughter,” she said. “And I didn’t want those last words about her to be that she was a reckless driver.”Alas, having insurance doesn’t guarantee that your insurer won’t cross the ring at some point and fight alongside the other person who was involved in your accident. And if companies make enough of the sort of miscalculations that Progressive did here, the costs may well be passed on to all of us in the form of higher premiums.
436 2012-08-17 Energy-related carbon emissions were lower from January to March than for any first quarter since 1992, partly because of the shift from coal to natural gas in power generation....
437 2012-08-17 He says the president's rescue plan didn't help Janesville, Wis....
438 2012-08-17 The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Eddie Murray, the former Baltimore Orioles player, of illegally trading on a tip on a $2.8 billion merger....
439 2012-08-17 With members of Congress back in their district for a five-week recess, leaders in both parties are working overtime to make sure that their respective messages on Medicare are being pounded on back home....
440 2012-08-17 For the long-term jobless, a struggle to beat the odds. | James B. Stewart discusses Facebook and the backlash against social media stocks....
441 2012-08-17 More new hedge funds started in the first quarter of this year than in any quarter since 2007, according to data from Hedge Fund Research. Some newcomers as well as industry veterans are branching out on their own....
442 2012-08-17 August 17, 2012 - For the long-term jobless, a struggle to beat the odds. | James B. Stewart discusses Facebook and the backlash against social media stocks.
443 2012-08-17 Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column for the Tribune.

The thing about your property tax bill isn’t just that it is big — that, it is. The irritating thing is that if you’re a homeowner or own property for rent, you see it as a lump sum.

Sales taxes take lots of money out of the average Texan’s wallet, but they don’t come in at the end of the year in a single bill. You get to see your income tax as a single number every April 15, but most people have already paid most or all of that by the time they see it. And unlike your income tax return, your property tax bill includes what you paid last year — so you can see how much it increased.

The tax on property is the biggest source of financing for school districts in Texas, which get 52 percent of their money there, according to a recent report. And with school districts going to court against the state in October to argue about school finance, the whole system — from property taxes to state financing formulas — is up for argument.

Property taxes are easy to hate, and politically dangerous to mess with.

Sales taxes are based on what you spend. Theoretically, you can control the consumption tax by controlling the consumption. Income taxes float with your income. Make more, pay more. Property taxes change as a result of a kind of black magic.

The value of your house is based on the prices agreed to by nearby buyers and sellers. It is mathematical and looks precise, but it’s not science. If it were based on something other than art, there would be no such thing as an appraisal board where you can try to bargain your way out of higher taxes by arguing with the value they put on your humble homestead.
444 2012-08-17 Karl Fleming, a former Newsweek reporter who dodged bullets and choked on tear gas while covering some of the most momentous events of the civil rights era, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84.

The cause was respiratory illness, his son Charles said.

A son of the South, Mr. Fleming was in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on June 11, 1963, when Gov. George C. Wallace fulfilled his pledge to “stand in the schoolhouse door” and then stepped aside when handed a presidential order to allow two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama. Days later, Mr. Fleming was in Jackson, Miss., reporting on the murder of the civil rights leader Medgar Evers.

He covered the Freedom Summer of 1964, when college students from around the country went to Mississippi to join in a voter registration drive. And after three of those volunteers — Michael Schwerner, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman — were jailed, released and, weeks later, found shot to death, Mr. Fleming was one of the first two reporters to arrive in Philadelphia, Miss.

The other was Claude Sitton of The New York Times, a Georgia native with whom Mr. Fleming worked closely. “Karl was a really good reporter, sharp, fast,” Mr. Sitton said on Monday. “When he and I got on a story that might be breaking in a couple of different places, Karl and I would exchange information.”

Gene Roberts, co-author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book “The Race Beat: The Press, the Civil Rights Struggle and the Awakening of a Nation” (2006), said Mr. Fleming was “one of the nation’s top civil rights reporters, the point man on some of the hairiest of the civil rights stories.”
445 2012-08-17 Radiation that leaked from the Fukushima nuclear plant after last year’s earthquake and tsunami caused mutations in some butterflies, including dented eyes and stunted wings, though humans seem relatively unaffected, researchers say. The mutations are the first evidence that the radiation has caused genetic changes in living organisms. They are likely to add to concerns about potential health risks among humans though there is no evidence of it yet. Scientists say more study is needed to link human health with the Fukushima disaster. The research on the butterflies was published in Scientific Reports, an open-access online journal by the Nature publication group. It says pale grass blue butterflies, a common species in Japan, collected from several areas near the Fukushima plant showed signs of genetic mutations, like dented eyes, malformed legs and antennas, and stunted wings. A separate study, released this week, found very low levels of radioactivity in people who were living near the Fukushima plant when it suffered the meltdowns.
446 2012-08-17 One boy died and another was missing after they were swept away along a popular but treacherous boulder-strewn stretch of the Merced River, Yosemite National Park officials said Thursday. The two children, whose names were not released, were part of a family visiting from Southern California that was hiking near the Vernal Fall Footbridge. Group members were cooling off in the river on Wednesday when a current carried the boys away. One boy, a 10-year-old, was pronounced dead around 3 p.m. Wednesday. Park visitors were able to pull him from the river about 150 yards downstream, but efforts to resuscitate him failed. The authorities were still searching for a 6-year-old boy who is presumed dead. The bridge is a vantage point on the Mist Trail where Vernal Fall first comes into view. Last summer at the site three young Central California friends were swept to their deaths at the fall, a 317-foot drop-off onto boulders below.
447 2012-08-17 It was good to see Charles K. Armstrong’s sensible, low-key analysis of the situation in North Korea. Recently, far too much uninformed blather about the changing situation in Pyongyang has erupted from those seeking to justify their previous predictions of imminent collapse.

Mr. Armstrong cited striking changes in Pyongyang, and then traveled to the countryside to note how tragically far behind the rest of the country still lags. I agree with his prediction that North Korea “can most likely muddle through for some time to come.”

My contacts with North Koreans, including recent talks with senior officials representing the Kim Jong-un regime, lead me to believe that Pyongyang is preparing itself to deal with whatever new policy formulations emerge from Washington and Seoul after the coming presidential elections. I believe that the potential for vastly improved relations exists, and only hope that we are intelligent enough to recognize that opportunity.

The writer was United States ambassador to South Korea, 1989-93.
448 2012-08-17 Re “Errant Code? It’s Not Just a Bug,” by Ellen Ullman (Op-Ed, Aug. 9):

As a young programmer in the 1970s, before the days when computer systems were a pre-written collection of software modules, I quickly learned that no code was “bug-free.” The possibilities for human error were too vast and the myriad circumstances in which the program would operate were too complex to foresee.

The standard report to management after successfully diagnosing and correcting errant code was: “The last known bug has been fixed.”

The writer is president of a professional services company focused on information technology.
449 2012-08-17 The N.F.L. said Thursday that San Diego Chargers defensive tackle Garrett Brown had been suspended without pay for the team’s first four regular-season games for violating the league’s policy on performance-enhancing substances.

Brown, who signed as a free agent, will be eligible to return to the Chargers’ active roster on Oct. 1.

The league said Brown was eligible to participate in all preseason practices and exhibition games.

BRONCOS LINEBACKER EXCUSED Linebacker D. J. Williams was excused from the Denver Broncos’ practice for personal reasons, a day after he was convicted on two charges in a Denver court.

Williams was found guilty Wednesday of driving while ability-impaired and driving without his headlights, the offense that prompted the police to stop him near downtown Denver about 3 a.m. on Nov. 12, 2010. Already facing a six-game drug suspension, Williams is subject to further punishment from the N.F.L. because of the impaired driving conviction. The league said it would review the matter.

The team’s leading tackler in five of his eight seasons in Denver, Williams has not been working with the starters during camp while the Broncos prepare his replacement, Wesley Woodyard, for the season.
450 2012-08-17 In doing so, Mr. Zucker has found enthusiastic support from those who believe the Obama administration has pushed regulation too far.

“When an adult, a 28-year-old, can’t buy this for their desk, then this agency has run amok,” said Mr. Zucker. “This is government gone absurd.”

There were an estimated 1,700 incidents of rare-earth magnets being swallowed and requiring emergency room care, in some cases surgery, in the three years beginning in January 2009, according to the safety commission.

It was not clear how many of those incidents involved Buckyballs, the dominant vendor in the United States. Mr. Zucker, 33, said there have been 2.5 million sets of Buckyballs sold and the company has confirmed 12 swallowing incidents. A set of 216 Buckyballs, which are about the size of BBs, costs $35 (colored Buckyballs cost $40).

Swallowing two or more rare-earth magnets is particularly dangerous because they attract each other in the intestines and can cause blockages, tissue damage and even perforation.

“Kids do swallow all kinds of stuff, but few pose the kind of risk that these magnets do,” said Dr. Bryan Vartabedian, a pediatric gastroenterologist at Texas Children’s Hospital, who treated a toddler whose bowel had been perforated after swallowing rare-earth magnets. “These are very unique magnets. They are incredibly powerful.”

While expressing sympathy for the victims, Mr. Zucker maintained that the complaint against his company was a case of selective enforcement. He noted that the safety commission has not banned many other products that cause far more injuries, and even deaths, to children, including all-terrain vehicles, button-cell batteries and window blinds.

“You can’t say warnings work on some products but not others,” he said.

But this is not the first effort by the safety commission to crack down on magnets. In 2006, for instance, the agency announced the recall of several million toys because children were swallowing magnets that had fallen out of them, causing injuries and at least one death. Toy manufacturers are now required to encase magnets so they will not fall out.

Initially at least, Mr. Zucker worked with the safety commission to try to educate consumers that the magnets were dangerous to children. The company voluntarily recalled 175,000 sets of Buckyballs in 2010 because they were labeled for “Ages 13+.” The warning was changed to say that Buckyballs should be kept away from all children.

A year and half later, the safety agency and Mr. Zucker created a safety alert video to warn consumers about the dangers of ingesting magnets. Mr. Zucker said his company also created a Web site, called magnetsafety.com, for the same purpose, and required retailers to agree not to sell the product to children.

But the injuries continued, leading to the newest action against the 13 manufacturers.

In a statement on its Web site, Zen Magnets’ founder, Shihan Qu, noted that there had been no reports of children ingesting its magnets. “Obviously we are being punished because children have regretfully misused our competitor’s magnets,” he said. “I urge those within the C.P.S.C. to think twice before applying the death penalty to innocent corporate citizens.”

Daniel Peykar, co-founder of Magnicube, said his six-month-old company agreed to voluntarily stop selling its rare-earth magnets, at least temporarily, because it did not want to pay the legal fees associated with an administrative complaint. “Hopefully, they will come up with a resolution on labeling and that will apply to everyone in the industry,” he said.

But Mr. Peykar, of Pine Brook, N.J., said he did not agree with the commission’s actions.

“The C.P.S.C. has gone to great lengths to try to ban a product rather than come up with a reasonable resolution,” he said.

The safety commission and consumer advocates maintain that the ban is warranted because rare-earth magnets are irresistible to children, even if the packaging says the toys are intended for adults. In the past, the commission has banned toys that it deemed too dangerous, like lawn darts, Mr. Wolfson said.

Not surprisingly, Betty Lopez, whose 12-year-old daughter swallowed four Buckyballs in March while pretending to have a pierced tongue, supports the commission’s actions.

“There were kind of three portions of the bowel that were stuck together by the Buckyballs,” said Ms. Lopez, who explained that her daughter required two operations and missed a month of school. “Knowing what my daughter went through, I don’t feel that Buckyballs serve any true purpose.”

Such injuries have marred what may have been a feel-good business success story that started in a Williamsburg apartment in Brooklyn in 2009.

Mr. Zucker was an entrepreneur who started, among other things, a bottled water business that sold New York City tap water. Mr. Bronstein wrote a blog, zoomdoggle.com, that offered tips about workplace fun.

After they saw rare-earth magnets on YouTube, they bought some inventory and repackaged them as Buckyballs (the nickname of a spherical carbon molecule that resembles the geodesic dome popularized by the inventor R. Buckminster Fuller).

At first, the two packed the magnets themselves and walked orders to the post office. Before long, they struggled to keep up with the demand. This year, they were on pace to sell 1.5 million sets, at least before the safety commission’s actions.

“We put $1,000 each into it,” said Mr. Zucker, whose cause to stay in business has been championed by the conservative commentators Rush Limbaugh and Michelle Malkin, among others. “We never put in another dime. No loans. No investors. We exceeded every single expectation.”

But now, Mr. Zucker says he is fighting for the survival of his business, which is in a cramped office with eight employees and a “We Love Our Jobs” sign, made out of Buckyballs, on the front door. And he is hoping customers will rally behind his unconventional campaign.

For instance, last week his company urged its Facebook fans to contact the agency “that is trying to take away our balls,” and it listed the names, phone numbers and e-mail addresses of Mr. Wolfson and the commission members, along with unflattering caricatures.

Rachel Weintraub, director of product safety at the Consumer Federation of America, said the Buckyballs campaign was simply an effort to shift the focus away from safety. “The essence here is safety, that children are being injured in horrendous ways,” she said. “It is classic industry strategy: changing the subject, attacking the messenger.”

Mr. Zucker prefers to cast the issue as one of fairness. “This is an issue about when can consumers make a decision to buy an adult product?” he said. “It’s a good fight. And it’s a fight I think we can win.”
451 2012-08-17 At the start of the exhibition a video shows a man in a Superman costume gesturing toward a large bottle with architectural models within and passionately but unintelligibly declaiming. The title of this piece, from 1999, explains, “Superman recites selections from ‘The Bell Jar’ and other works by Sylvia Plath.”

Featured in the main space is a glowing, sculptural vision of the bottled Kandor: a cluster of translucent spires immersed in purple-tinted water within a tall bell jar. It is displayed on a tiered pedestal that could have been designed for a sci-fi television series.

Incongruously, an old compressed-air tank lies on the floor, a hose connecting it to the bell jar. The reason for this is shown in a set of video loops projected on the gallery walls. Each pictures in close-up a bottle holding a different colored liquid that is swirling and bubbling because of a stream of air running into it. Thus you behold Kandor in pristine miniature under glass and, in the videos, the chaos that nearly consumed it.

A large banner hanging on one wall announces a coming event called “Kandor-Con.” Kelley had planned to organize a convention around the Kandor project that would spoof the annual comic-book convention called Comic-Con.

In the Freudian terms that Kelley himself favored, I imagine that Kandor represents a grown-up’s fantasy of childhood as a blissful golden age: an idealizing vision that represses memories of real-life suffering. Viewed sociologically, Kandor is the crystal city of Modernism, the utopian culmination of enlightened reason.

The ideological implications are clear: Modernity represses awareness of its own traumatic history. So it is paradoxically fitting to have Superman, champion of truth, justice and the American way, reciting passages from Plath’s literature about the horrors of patriarchy.

I cannot help thinking that Kandor and Superman meant something more personal to Kelley, too. Seen as an image of order and integration in a bottle, Kandor might represent a part of Kelley himself, his own highly developed intellect. Superman, the busy multitasker constantly saving the world in great and small ways, could be the alter ego of Kelley, who, as a globe-roving exhibitor, employed as many as 30 people to keep his enterprise going.

But he paid a price for his superhuman efforts. Shortly before he died, Kelley complained in an interview that he was exhausted and terrified by major exhibition commitments he’d made. He spoke of retiring from art. He was not Superman, after all.

Kelley’s ambivalence about order and chaos is vividly evident in the exhibition’s second part, which consists of seven videos dating from 1983 to 1992, running on large flat screens. On one floor, four are playing out loud at the same time, creating a cacophonous din. The three upstairs you can listen to on headphones, which, however, hardly keep out the recorded sounds of Kelley’s noise band the Poetics booming from speakers in the room. (Mr. Falckenberg has said that that is how Kelley would have wanted it.)

By turns funny, messy, confusing, tedious and revelatory, the videos are rife with preoccupations having to do with the body, Oedipal conflict and popular myths. The standouts are two that Kelley made in collaboration with Paul McCarthy, the West Coast dean of polymorphous perversity. “Heidi” is a gross-out version of the beloved tale of Alpine innocence. In “Family Tyranny” Mr. McCarthy is a mumbling, abusive father figure in lederhosen, and Kelley his cowering son.

The exhibition’s two parts suggest a struggle to integrate the shattering oppositional tensions in Kelley’s work. He probably would have rejected the goal of holistic resolution.

He told one interviewer: “I became an artist to fail. I wanted to do something that rules out success and makes sure I’m not a useful member of society.” Another time he declared, “I don’t believe in anything.”

But I do not believe that. I think he was an idealist of the first order, but a deeply disappointed one.
452 2012-08-17 At least six bodies were visible after the shooting ended, and SAPA, South Africa’s main news agency, reported that 18 people had been killed. Ten other people, including two police officers, had already died as a result of violence connected to the strike, which began Friday when thousands of workers walked off the job, saying that their wages needed to be tripled.

Kelebone, who works as a winch operator, said he was paid about $500 per month for difficult, dangerous work.

“We need more money,” he said.

Like most of the workers who walked off the job last week, Kelebone, who is 28 and wears a long mane of dreadlocked hair, is a member of the Association of Mine Workers and Construction Union, a newer and more radical union. Lonmin, the London-based company that operates the mine, shut down operations on Tuesday amid the violent strike.

For the past three days, workers with machetes, sticks and wooden cudgels occupied an outcropping of rock near the mine, chanting and dancing, pledging their readiness to die if their demands were not met.

“The struggle, the struggle, it will liberate us,” they sang, shuffling in formation with their machetes held aloft.

Just before 4 p.m. on Thursday, after repeated warnings to the crowd of about 3,000 miners to disarm and disperse, the police began firing tear gas and water cannons to try to get them to leave, witnesses said. In video captured by several news organizations, the police appeared to fire upon a group of workers who charged toward them.

The police in post-apartheid South Africa have been accused of using deadly strong-arm tactics to suppress unrest before, but the action on Thursday surprised many South Africans and drew quick condemnation.

“Regardless of what police may argue about provocation, there is no possible justification for shooting into a crowd with rifles and handguns,” Frans Cronje of the South African Institute of Race Relations said on Twitter. Helen Zille, leader of the opposition Democratic Alliance, called the shootings a massacre.

President Jacob Zuma condemned the violence but refrained from criticizing the police, saying in a statement that “there is enough space in our democratic order for any dispute to be resolved through dialogue without any breaches of the law or violence.” He said he had “instructed law enforcement agencies to do everything possible to bring the situation under control and to bring the perpetrators of violence to book.”

Frans Baleni, general secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers, defended the police in an interview with Kaya FM, a radio station.

“The police were patient, but these people were extremely armed with dangerous weapons,” he said.

The strike reflected a deep anger at the slow pace of South Africa’s transformation. When Joyce Lebelo moved to the informal settlement near a platinum mine in 1998, she built only a tiny shack, thinking the new government would soon provide her with a proper house. She is still waiting.

“When we voted, we didn’t think we would spend 10 years living in a shack,” she said, sitting beneath the tin roof of her tin-walled house, which she has expanded over the years to include a kitchen, bedrooms, a dining room and wall-to-wall carpeting. But bricks and mortar, not to mention running water and electricity, are still a distant dream.

“The promises they made, they have not delivered,” Ms. Lebelo said. “The people who got power are fat and rich. They have forgotten the people at the bottom.”

And Ms. Lebelo, who has a job cooking school lunches and whose husband works as a driver at a platinum mine, is one of the lucky ones: at least her family has two incomes.

Unemployment is a major problem in mining areas, said John Capel of the Bench Marks Foundation, a research and advocacy organization that studies mining communities.

“There is a kind of desperation, a lack of hope and a resentment for the mining industry and the government,” Mr. Capel said. “We have been warning for years of these potential uprisings. People are angry.”

A senior member of the rival union, A.M.C.U., says that workers are angry and feel betrayed by the party that liberated South Africa.

“We made the A.N.C. what it is today, but they have no time for us,” the union leader said, asking that his name be withheld because he feared reprisals from the government. “Nothing has changed, only the people on top, and they just keep getting more money.”
453 2012-08-17 Others report on the years when he repaired to a remote farmhouse on the Scottish island of Jura, an ill and broken man after the death of his wife, Eileen. There he fished, caught lobsters and wrote “1984,” his masterpiece. (Yet another diary, about his experience fighting in the Spanish Civil War — he took a bullet in the neck from the fascist side — was seized from Orwell and his wife and is believed to be in a secret police archive in Moscow.)

In these diaries he is lucid on the topics that obsessed him in nearly all his writing: politics, class, poverty, language. The Occupy movement will seize happily upon this line, from June 3, 1940, when Orwell responded in his diary to a letter in The Daily Telegraph lamenting that the rich would have to part with their cooks during the war: “Apparently nothing will ever teach these people that the other 99 percent of the population exist.”

But there are dozens of other lines worth seizing upon here, many of them about the degradation of language, and many of them comic. Reading the newspapers on Jan. 2, 1941, for example, Orwell made this observation: “The word ‘blitz’ now used everywhere to mean any kind of attack on anything. Cf. ‘strafe’ in the last war. ‘Blitz’ is not yet used as a verb, a development I am expecting.”

In his very next entry, a few weeks later, he wrote, without further comment: “The Daily Express has used ‘blitz’ as a verb.”

There are deft cameos. The critic Cyril Connolly appears long enough to view some of the German bombing of London in 1941 from a rooftop with Orwell, and to declare: “It’s the end of capitalism. It’s a judgment on us.”

A great deal of the writing in these diaries, however, is about the rough magic of serious gardening, which Orwell enthusiastically undertook in Morocco, in a cottage he rented with his wife in Wallington, outside of London, and on Jura.

I don’t want to imply that these gardening diaries are, on every page, bewitching. Many entries are like so: “11.4. 38: One egg. 11.5.38: One egg. 11.6. 38: Two eggs.” They are frequently terse, factual, telegrammatic.

This might be a good time to note that these diaries are probably not Orwell for beginners. His best prose is more concentrated in many other places. Even Christopher Hitchens, whose introduction to this book is said to be the last commissioned piece of writing he completed before his death in 2011, calls the diaries “occasionally laborious.”

Orwell rarely mentions his wife, their adopted son or any other human beings in these pages. He only very rarely refers to his books, or other writing projects, either. These diaries were like handwriting around the margins of his most important work. This handsome book does not, despite its publisher’s assertion on the dust flap, “amount to a volume as penetrating as the autobiography he would never write.”

About Orwell’s gardening and fishing and rabbit skinning and bird-watching, however, clearly not enough scholarly work has been done. We find him here tending to dozens of types of flowers, fruit trees and vegetables. He dilates on how best to hobble cows, to cook rabbits, to make charcoal, to preserve eggs and to tie lobster claws. On Sept. 11, 1946, he wrote: “Made mustard spoon out of deer’s bone.”

There are drawings by Orwell in “Diaries” of lathes, plows, drills, scythes, fishing nets, stirrups and charcoal braziers. He cures pelts, shoots rabbits and makes apple jelly from windfall fruit. A not untypical entry (amusing from a man who composed the line “Four legs good, two legs bad” in “Animal Farm”) is: “Spent about two hours trying to get a cow out of a bog.”

Orwell’s labors take on a potent moral dimension. He hoped never to be what he once called a “food-crank.” He liked simple things. These diaries show him with his hands covered in fresh dirt, hard at work, in sync with the seasons, curious about everything under the sun, tending to what he needed and grateful for beauty as well as sustenance. They present a man in full.
454 2012-08-17 Some characterized the withdrawal as a positive development that would remove what they called the pretense that a viable peace effort was under way.

“Where the U.N. gets in trouble is when you have placeholders, when something’s better than nothing,” said Bruce W. Jentleson, a former State Department diplomat who is now a professor of public policy and political science at Duke University. “Something is not always better than nothing.”

Still, the Security Council’s decision runs the risk of further marginalizing the role of the United Nations in the Syrian war, leaving it vulnerable to the same criticism of inaction that it has faced in other major armed conflicts where civilians have suffered massacres and other brutalities.

Mr. Ban and other United Nations officials, mindful of the failures in thwarting atrocities like the 1994 Rwanda genocide and 1995 Srebrenica massacre, have repeatedly invoked those events in talking about Syria. Last month Mr. Ban, paying the first-ever visit by a secretary general to the memorial site for the 8,000 men and boys killed by Bosnian Serb forces in Srebrenica, said, “I do not want to see any of my successors, after 20 years, visiting Syria, apologizing for what we could have done now to protect the civilians in Syria, which we are not doing now.”

Edmond Mulet, the assistant secretary general for peacekeeping, who attended the Security Council meeting and will help oversee the monitor mission’s withdrawal, acknowledged that “the situation on the ground is extremely difficult” in Syria. Still, he said, “the fact that it’s difficult doesn’t mean we should not face the challenge.”

Mr. Mulet said the new office would be much smaller than the observer mission, perhaps 20 to 30 people, whose precise duties were not clear yet. He said there would be no more military observers. “It’s clear that both sides have chosen the path of war, open conflict,” he said. “The space for political dialogue is very reduced at this point.”

There had been widespread expectations that the Security Council would decide not to renew the observer mission’s mandate because of the violence in Syria, which had forced the mission’s commanding officer to drastically reduce the staff and basically confine those who remained to their Damascus hotel for the past two months.

The observer mission was created as part of the peace plan for Syria negotiated by Kofi Annan, the special envoy for the United Nations and the Arab League, who announced his resignation two weeks ago in frustration over his failure to persuade Mr. Assad and his adversaries to halt the conflict, now 18 months old.

Speculation intensified that the United Nations and Arab League were close to announcing a successor to Mr. Annan.

Diplomats said they believed that the replacement would be Lakhdar Brahimi, a widely respected Algerian statesman who has worked for the United Nations in other trouble spots, including Afghanistan and Iraq. But a spokesman for Mr. Brahimi declined to confirm that he had accepted the job.

In a move that appeared to take other United Nations diplomats by surprise on Thursday, Russia’s ambassador announced after the Security Council meeting that he was inviting representatives from the group of influential countries and organizations that had attended a Syria meeting in Geneva to take part in a meeting on Friday at the United Nations. The ambassador, Vitaly I. Churkin, told reporters that “the purpose is to call on all the parties to stop the violence.”

But it was unclear what would be likely to result from such a meeting or who would attend. In Washington, Victoria Nuland, the State Department spokeswoman, said, “Frankly, we’re not sure we understand the objective and the goal of the meeting.”
455 2012-08-17 All of the former News of the World employees who appeared in court on Thursday faced a general charge of phone hacking between October 2000 and August 2006.

Those charged in the Dowler case were Mr. Coulson and three others who worked in senior newsroom positions at The News of the World: Stuart Kuttner, a former managing editor; Greg Miskiw, another senior editor; and Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s longtime chief reporter.

Also on the “Dowler list” is Mr. Mulcaire, the private investigator. Two other News of the World journalists who were charged with phone hacking, but not in the Dowler case, were Ian Edmondson, the former head of news, and a reporter, James Weatherup.

The list of prominent figures whose mobile phones were said to have been hacked by one or other of the defendants included the former government ministers David Blunkett and Charles Clarke, the sporting personalities Wayne Rooney and Sven-Goran Eriksson and celebrities, including Sir Paul McCartney, Jude Law and Sienna Miller.

But prosecutors say the mobile phones of up to 600 people may have been hacked.

For many years, executives at News International, the British newspaper subsidiary of News Corporation, insisted that phone hacking was the work of a single rogue reporter.

In early 2007, Clive Goodman, a journalist who covered the royal family for The News of the World, was sentenced to four months in prison for hacking into royal officials’ voice mail in 2005 and 2006.

At that time, Mr. Mulcaire, the private investigator, was also sentenced to six months in jail.

Shortly after the sentencing, Mr. Coulson announced his resignation from The News of the World and later joined the Conservative Party, then in opposition, as Mr. Cameron’s director of communications — a position he maintained after the party came to power as the dominant partner in a coalition government in 2010.

As the hacking scandal continued to widen, Mr. Cameron initially stood by Mr. Coulson, saying he believed that Mr. Coulson was telling the truth about the extent of his knowledge of the affair. But disclosures about illicit phone intercepts continued, and Mr. Coulson resigned from his government post in January 2011, saying the scandal was distracting him from his work at 10 Downing Street.

In July last year, after the disclosures relating to the Dowler case, Mr. Coulson was arrested and questioned by the police in England on suspicion of phone hacking and of illegally paying officials for information. In May this year, he was arrested by the Scottish police in a separate case and charged with lying under oath about whether he knew phone hacking was going on at The News of the World.
456 2012-08-17 President Obama has often told the story of how he met his wife, Michelle, in Chicago when they worked at the same law firm. Now, fans of the first couple can visit the spot where they shared their first kiss.A historical marker was unveiled on We...
457 2012-08-17 It is quite likely the only reprieve Americans will get from what is expected to be an especially heavy and sustained barrage of political advertising this fall. But on Sept. 11, President Obama and Mitt Romney have agreed to suspend their campaig...
458 2012-08-17 The National September 11 Memorial and Museum  filed court papers this week seeking to dismiss a federal lawsuit brought by a group of atheists who oppose the museum's decision to display the giant  cross-shaped steel beam  that became a site of d...
459 2012-08-18 At a time when Facebook needs to increase its revenue, a federal judge in California rejected the proposed settlement of a class-action lawsuit targeting the company's most lucrative advertising tool....
460 2012-08-18 Yes, some businesses are more seasonal than others, but ultimately the stuff we do at work isn’t that much different — it’s just busier some times than others. That isn’t change, it’s just more volume.

I wanted to do something about this. So, at 37signals, the software company I’ve run for the past 13 years, we take inspiration from the seasons and build change into our work schedule.

For example, from May through October, we switch to a four-day workweek. And not 40 hours crammed into four days, but 32 hours comfortably fit into four days. We don’t work the same amount of time, we work less.

Most staff workers take Fridays off, but some choose a different day. Nearly all of us enjoy three-day weekends. Work ends Thursday, the weekend starts Friday, and work starts back up on Monday.

The benefits of a six-month schedule with three-day weekends are obvious. But there’s one surprising effect of the changed schedule: better work gets done in four days than in five.

When there’s less time to work, you waste less time. When you have a compressed workweek, you tend to focus on what’s important. Constraining time encourages quality time.

At 37signals there’s another thing we do to celebrate the seasons: we cover the cost of a weekly community-supported agriculture share for each employee. We enjoy this benefit year-round, but fresh fruit and produce really glisten in the summer months. It’s a simple way to celebrate change.

In the spirit of continual change, this summer we tried something new. We decided to give everyone the month of June to work on whatever they wanted. It wasn’t vacation, but it was vacation from whatever work was already scheduled. We invited everyone to shelve their nonessential work and to use the time to explore their own ideas.

People worked independently or joined up with other employees on team projects. The only rule was: explore, see if there are ways to make our existing products better, or come up with a new product idea, create a new business model, or do whatever is of most interest.

Then, in July, we asked each person to share, with the rest of the staff, whatever idea he or she came up with, on a day we set aside as “Pitchday.”

The June-on-your-own experiment led to the greatest burst of creativity I’ve seen from our 34-member staff. It was fun, and it was a big morale booster. It was also ultraproductive. So much so that we’ll likely start repeating the month-off project a few times a year.

Are you thinking of introducing change to your business or work life? Try following the seasons. There are few things that are as regular and predictable, yet so fresh and different.
461 2012-08-18 It appears about 90 percent certain that a lockout will postpone the start of the N.H.L. season, so the next question is how long that postponement will last....
462 2012-08-18 A computer simulation played in the EA Sports game FIFA 13 predicts that Manchester City will repeat as champions of England's Premier League....
463 2012-08-18 The day’s most interesting number on Friday was 13,275.20, the closing price of the Dow Jones industrial average, which left it just shy of its highest close since the financial crisis....
464 2012-08-18 The government lost nearly $34 billion in royalties by selling private companies concessions at negotiated prices rather than auctioning them....
465 2012-08-18 A strong Canadian dollar weighs on the auto industry as contract talks start, the Kalashnikov factory in Russia is humming thanks to American buyers, and Amtrak’s Acela train service is dominating travel in the Washington-New York-Boston corrido...
466 2012-08-18 In some ways, last season was one to forget. The worst league finish since the Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich took over as owner in 2003, a bitter managerial change and even racism allegations against defender John Terry were all endured, yet the season ended with a Champions League title.

Now Chelsea has embarked on the next phase of Abramovich’s master plan.

A single star, signifying their new champions-of-Europe status, has been embroidered on this season’s jerseys and represents all that Abramovich dreamed of. Well, almost.

Barcelona’s former manager, Pep Guardiola, might not have been tempted by Abramovich’s flirting over the summer, but Roberto Di Matteo, who stepped in and led Chelsea to Champions League glory, has been briefed about replicating the type of clever, intricate soccer for which Barcelona has become famous.

Along those lines, about $90 million was spent to acquire the Brazilian playmaker Oscar and Belgium’s Eden Hazard, who has likened himself to Lionel Messi. If you are going to evoke Barcelona, that is certainly a start.

Arsenal Manager Arsène Wenger has made a number of shrewd additions to his squad, but, just as was the case last year, the club’s summer has been dogged by speculation regarding the future of its star performers. The van Persie saga might have reached a conclusion, but midfielder Alex Song is still the subject of interest from Barcelona.

At Tottenham Hotspur, the Croatian midfielder Luka Modric is playing the role of disembodied star, with a move to Real Madrid likely to be sealed soon. In a peculiar twist, Modric almost joined André Villas-Boas at Chelsea last season before Villas-Boas was dumped as the Blues’ manager. Now Villas-Boas presides over Tottenham, and Modric is trying to leave.

Villas-Boas insists he has nothing to prove after his ignominious dismissal by Chelsea but argues that his new team can win the title.

In Liverpool, the club’s worst Premier League finish — eighth place — cost Kenny Dalglish, better known as King Kenny, his job as manager. The team’s Boston-based owners, the Fenway Sports Group, who these days also have the troubled Boston Red Sox to contend with, brought in Brendan Rodgers to replace him.

Rodgers’s attractive, passing philosophy with Swansea last season attracted widespread praise. He was even a guest of Spain’s coach, Vicente Del Bosque, at his Euro 2012 training camp. The challenge for Rodgers will be to communicate his philosophy to a team in desperate need of one.

There are, of course, two parallel story lines in the Premier League, the other always involving teams fighting to gain entry into the league, or to avoid relegation.

The three new teams this year are Reading, Southampton and West Ham. Gone are Bolton, Blackburn and Wolverhampton.

The nature of the league dictates that if you’re not fighting for the top, you’re fighting the drop.

For many teams a middle-of-the-pack finish would represent a successful campaign. It is all about to start, with numerous games now broadcast live on weekend mornings across the United States.

In that regard, the English Premier League now extends from London to Los Angeles. So as American fans would say: play ball.
467 2012-08-18 Lance Armstrong and the United States Anti-Doping Agency are exchanging written arguments in federal court about who has jurisdiction in the drug case against Armstrong. In papers submitted to United States District Judge Sam Sparks, lawyers for Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner, attached a letter from a lawyer for USA Cycling. That lawyer said that the governing body for American cycling must accept the jurisdiction of the sport’s international federation and side against Usada in the case.

The Usada chief, Travis Tygart, countered that “the World Anti-Doping Agency has already announced Usada has jurisdiction” in the case. He said that was under rules adopted by the International Cycling Union and Usada.
468 2012-08-18 The suit argues that the city is conducting stop-and-frisk encounters on the basis of race, in violation of the 14th Amendment. The city says that the stop-and-frisk program, which dates to the 1990s, is concentrated in high-crime areas, and does not focus on minorities.

A plaintiffs’ expert witness in the case is expected to testify that his analysis of city data shows that about 10 percent of stops result in an arrest or summons, and guns are seized in only 1 of every 1,000 stops.

“I found these statistics powerful evidence of a widespread pattern of unlawful stops,” Judge Scheindlin noted.

In response, the city sought to have its expert, Dennis C. Smith, an associate professor at New York University’s Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service, testify that finding guns was not the appropriate measurement of success for a “proactive, prevention-focused” tactic. Rather, Professor Smith would argue that a goal of the program was to convince would-be gun carriers to leave their guns at home.

Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly have made the same argument. In the mayor’s most full-throated defense of the tactic, he told a black congregation in Brooklyn that the policy was deterring people from carrying guns.

“By making it ‘too hot to carry,’ the N.Y.P.D. is preventing guns from being carried on our streets,” the mayor said at the First Baptist Full Gospel Church of Brownsville. “That is our real goal — preventing violence before it occurs, not responding to the victims after the fact.”

Judge Scheindlin also suggested that the city was seeking to make the suit a referendum on whether stop-and-frisk tactics reduce crime, but she said the trial would focus narrowly on whether how the city has employed the tactic passes constitutional muster.

The city’s Law Department did not comment of the aspects of their expert testimony that the judge disallowed. But in a statement, the department said it was pleased that Mr. Smith would be able to critique the plaintiff expert’s analysis of the role of race in stop and frisks.

Darius Charney, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights, which filed the case against the city, said the city had framed the issue as whether or not its stop-and-frisk policy worked.

“We’re not here to argue whether stop-and-frisk is a wise police tactic,” Mr. Charney said. The argument, he said, was, is “the way the Police Department is doing it legal or not.”
469 2012-08-18 A spokesman for Deutsche Bank declined to comment, but noted that the German bank decided in 2007 that it would “not engage in new business with counterparties in countries such as Iran, Syria, Sudan and North Korea and to exit existing business to the extent legally possible.”

Since 2009, the Justice Department, the Treasury Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office, working largely in concert, have brought charges against five foreign banks, contending they moved billions of dollars through their American subsidiaries on behalf of Iran, Cuba and North Korea, sponsors of terrorism and drug cartels.

The cases against the five banks all included deferred prosecution agreements and required the banks — ABN Amro, Barclays, Credit Suisse, Lloyds and most recently ING — to forfeit a substantial amount of assets.

The cases typically have not involved United States banks. Unlike foreign institutions, American banks were prohibited from originating or receiving such transactions from Iran. That enabled them to largely sidestep the conduct that has helped ensnare foreign banks.

Mr. Lawsky, who claimed Standard Chartered plotted with Iran for nearly a decade to secretly process $250 billion through its New York branch, has been unwavering in his decision to move against Standard Chartered. He has found support among those who think federal prosecutors have been too lenient on big banks.

Rather than undermine the policing of global banks, Mr. Lawsky’s actions strengthen regulation, said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who held hearings last month exposing HSBC money laundering violations with Iran, Mexico and others.

“New York’s regulatory action sends a strong message that the United States will not tolerate foreign banks giving rogue nations like Iran hidden access to the U.S. financial system,” Mr. Levin, who heads the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said in a statement this week.

The investigation into Deutsche Bank is still in its very early stages, according to the law enforcement officials. So far, there is no suspicion that the bank moved money on behalf of Iranian clients through its American operations after 2008, the officials said.

In the earlier cases, the banks agreed to financial settlements with prosecutors for as much as $619 million with ING bank in June. The cases are also valuable, the prosecutors said, as a result of the trove of transactions typically unearthed. The information, including the identity of clients who sent money through the banks, can then be passed on to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency.

Until 2008, foreign banks were allowed, in a sanctions loophole, to transfer money for Iran through their American subsidiaries to a separate offshore institution while providing the scantiest information about the client to their United States units as long as they had thoroughly vetted the transactions for suspicious activity. As a result, American law enforcement agencies generally have to push for more information from foreign banks.

To get uncensored data, authorities work closely with international regulators and global banks to navigate European privacy and bank secrecy laws. The laws can fundamentally hinder a case, as they did during tax-evasion investigations against Swiss banks. Data on transactions, in some earlier global bank cases, had been so redacted that authorities joked that they looked like “Swiss cheese.”

The speed of obtaining the data, the prosecutors said, depends on a level of trust and cooperation.

In the Credit Suisse case, for example, regulators from the Federal Reserve and prosecutors worked for months to persuade the Swiss bank and its regulators to release full data, an especially delicate proposition because of Swiss laws that fiercely guard client information, according to the law enforcement officials. Without that, the investigation — resulting in a $536 million settlement and deferred prosecution agreement — could have dragged on much longer, the authorities said.

Neil M. Barofsky, the former inspector general for the Treasury’s bank bailout fund, said fears that banks would not cooperate were overblown because it was “in their best interest to cooperate to avoid criminal prosecution and to keep their license.”

In the case of Standard Chartered, which is still being investigated by the Justice Department and the Manhattan district attorney, among others, cooperation started nearly from the beginning when in 2010 the bank gave officials a battery of e-mails and other internal bank documents detailing transactions with Iran from 2001 to 2007.

The prosecutors have not yet found any money transfers that went to so-called specially designated nationals, the term assigned by the Treasury Department to terrorists, drug cartels or individuals or companies owned or operated by sanctioned countries, the law enforcement officials said.

In his Aug. 6 order against Standard Chartered, Mr. Lawsky claimed the bank “left the U.S. financial system vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins and corrupt regimes.” The order said the bank transferred money on behalf of Iranian state-owned banks — including the Central Bank of Iran/Markazi, Bank Saderat and Bank Melli. American officials suspected Iran was using those banks to finance nuclear weapons and missile programs.

So far, prosecutors said that they had not yet discovered transactions with those banks after the Iranian banks were added to the specially designated nationals list. Mr. Lawsky pointed out in his order that it was impossible to know how the money was used because Standard Chartered deliberately stripped identifying information from the transactions.

As they continue to pursue investigations against global banks, federal and state prosecutors are still deciding how they want to work with Mr. Lawsky, who took the reins of the revamped banking agency in 2011. In the past, the New York banking department worked alongside federal and state prosecutors, but did not get a share of the forfeited money.
470 2012-08-18 Thank you for your Aug. 10 editorial on behalf of domestic-worker rights and my bill A.B. 889.

Yes, we are in California, but the life of an average domestic worker here is less glamorous than that of the nannies, cooks and housemaids depicted by our state’s movie and TV studios. And despite what opponents have tried to say, the bill isn’t about casual teenage baby sitters.

Underrecognized domestic workers also include those who act tirelessly on behalf of people with disabilities. That care does more than allow “households to function smoothly.” It allows people to stay at home instead of in institutions, preserving life and quality of life.

As you point out, all these workers deserve fair labor protections — protections enjoyed by most working people. That’s why California needs the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights.
471 2012-08-18 “Carbon Credits Gone Awry Raise Output of Harmful Gas” (“Chilling Effect” series, front page, Aug. 9), about the effect of the United Nations’ carbon credit program in driving increased production of a coolant with a harmful waste gas byproduct, illustrates the key drawbacks of carbon credit programs, cap and trade, and related schemes.

These programs often lead to perverse incentives that produce no net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or, worse, can even increase emissions. Cap-and-trade programs, like the European Union’s, allow offsets that are too easily manipulated.

A better way to address the urgent problem of climate change is through instituting a fee on carbon. A carbon fee at the source, based on emissions per ton, would create an incentive for producers to develop innovative solutions to decrease their fossil fuel consumption and lower their emissions. It would be more straightforward to carry out and not subject to easy manipulation.

Groups like Citizens Climate Lobby are advocating for adopting such a fee in the United States and Canada, with the revenue returned to citizens as dividends. International organizations like the United Nations would be wise to consider switching to a carbon fee system as well.

The writer is co-leader of Citizens Climate Lobby’s New York City chapter.

Contrary to “Carbon Credits Gone Awry Raise Output of a Harmful Gas,” people foresaw huge risks around the Clean Development Mechanism.

At the creation of the system and repeatedly since, Environmental Defense Fund warned that minting credits for reducing emissions below “what would have otherwise occurred” in fast-growing nations would spawn perverse incentives, with industries tempted to generate bogus credits by inflating growth projections.
472 2012-08-18 In the front window of the Drama Book Shop, on 40th Street in Midtown Manhattan, there is a sign that reads, “Playwright working,” with an arrow pointing down to just that. At 3:30 on a recent Friday afternoon, the featured writer was Hilary Bettis, one of 76 participants in Write Out Front, a three-week project continuing through Sept. 1.

In two-hour shifts the writers work on new plays, with a screen shot of their words visible to passers-by. Micheline Auger, who runs the blog Theaterspeak, came up with the idea. The project echoes Suzan-Lori Parks’s “Watch Me Work,” an event at the 2011 Under the Radar Festival during which Ms. Parks labored on a project in the lobby of the Public Theater .

Ms. Bettis said she was given no guidelines, meaning she could check Facebook if she needed a breather. But though Write Out Front is meant to shed light on a private process, Ms. Bettis said that she often wrote from midnight to 5 a.m., and that certain common activities — like “pacing around in my underwear” or picking up a violin to play her way through a bit of writer’s block — would not be on display.

Ms. Auger said she hoped to expand the project next year, with writers in the window 24 hours a day, and the proceedings streamed online with a “playwright cam.”

For now, the audience of pedestrians was enough to give Ms. Bettis pause. “I’m a brutally honest, dark writer,” she said, “so there’s a little of, ‘I don’t know if this is appropriate language for children, but I’m going to type these words anyway.’ ”

It’s a concern that might be shared by Stephen Adly Guirgis, who wrote “The ___________ With the Hat,” which played Broadway last season. He will be in the window from 3 to 5 p.m. on Thursday.
473 2012-08-18 “It’s a win for Caterpillar — they achieved their bargaining objectives,” said Michael LeRoy, a labor relations professor at the University of Illinois. “There’s very little good news in this for the union — they have managed to maintain the bargaining relationship. I wouldn’t say it’s a disaster, but it sure is a step back.”

The striking workers had faced a tough choice in the ratification vote: accept a deal that many found unsatisfactory or continue a painful 15-week walkout with no guarantee that they could get Caterpillar to sweeten its offer. About 105 workers had already crossed the picket line and returned to work.

The union’s leaders declined to disclose the results of the vote, which they said was close.

Al Williams, a 19-year employee at the plant, said he voted for ratification even though he disliked the six-year wage freeze.

“I’m glad we’re going back to work,” he said. “I don’t think it’s the best deal, but it’s doable. I voted for it simply because they weren’t able to tell us definitively what we could hope to get other than what was in this offer.”

For the workers, the deal was a slight improvement over what Caterpillar was offering when the walkout began. While the deal kept a six-year pay freeze for the more senior workers, it provided for a single raise during the six years for workers hired after May 2005 — a 3 percent raise at the end of this year. Caterpillar’s previous offer did not promise any raise for that group.

During the negotiations, Caterpillar also stepped back from its insistence that management be able to assign workers new jobs or new shifts indefinitely, outside of seniority. Under the deal approved Friday, workers could still be assigned to new jobs or shifts irrespective of seniority, but for a maximum of 90 days.

Mr. LeRoy said that the deal “does signal continued wage stagnation in the manufacturing sector, not only for unionized, but also nonunion workers.”

Tim O’Brien, president of the striking local, Machinists Lodge Local Lodge 851, called for rejecting the contract, saying the Joliet workers did not walk the picket lines for nearly four months and endure such sacrifice to settle for a stingy deal.

But Steve Jones, the top official in Machinists District 8 in Burr Ridge, Ill., and the union leader who negotiated the settlement with Caterpillar, said the deal was the best the union could get.

“If there was a better agreement out there to be had, we would have taken it,” Mr. Jones said on Wednesday after reaching the deal.

The factory’s top tier, representing two-thirds of the workers, earns an average of $26 an hour, while the lower-tier workers generally earn $12 to $19 an hour. Caterpillar said it had insisted on a pay freeze because it wanted to maintain the factory’s competitiveness and because the top-tier workers earned substantially above the market average.

The contract does not include a cost of living adjustment for the workers, although Caterpillar has said it might adjust the pay of the lower-tier workers upward based on local labor market conditions during the six-year contract.

During the strike, the workers often expressed anger that Caterpillar was insisting on a wage freeze when the company, the world’s leading producer of earth-moving machinery, had a record profit of $4.9 billion last year, with forecasts of stronger earnings this year. The compensation of its chief executive, Douglas R. Oberhelman, increased by 60 percent in 2011, to $16.9 million.
474 2012-08-18 PARIS — The anxieties of an unexpected landing in war-ravaged Syria were compounded for passengers on an Air France flight when they were asked by the crew if they couldn’t possibly, you know, come up with some cash to help out with the refueling.

Passengers on Air France Flight 562 were headed from Paris to Beirut, Lebanon, on Wednesday, but the religious and ethnic tensions of the civil war in Syria have spilled over into Lebanon, too. Unrest around Beirut’s airport made it impossible to land, Air France said on Friday. The crew sought permission to divert to Amman, Jordan, but lacked the fuel to make it safely, so ended up in Damascus. (As if the Syrian capital were safer.)

Air France stopped flying to Damascus in March as fighting escalated in Syria, and Paris and Damascus are not exactly on good terms these days, with France one of the most vocal countries calling for President Bashar al-Assad and his government to step down and face charges of war crimes.

France pulled its ambassador from Damascus in March, and in a reflection of the current state of relations, the French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, visiting a refugee camp for Syrians on the Turkish border, said on Friday: “The Syrian regime should be smashed fast. After hearing the refugees and their account of the massacres of the regime, Mr. Bashar al-Assad doesn’t deserve to be on this earth.”

And then there is the matter of European Union sanctions on Syria, which make even buying jet fuel, let alone on credit, a little complicated.

Authorities at the Damascus airport told the crew that they could not accept credit cards because of the sanctions — cash only. So as a precaution, an Air France spokeswoman said, the crew asked the passengers how much money they happened to have in their wallets to help pay for fuel.
475 2012-08-18 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index climbed 0.19 percent, or 2.65 points, to 1,418.16 on Friday. It is now up nearly 13 percent for the year and needs to gain less than a point to overtake the high for the year hit in April.

The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day up 0.19 percent, or 25.09 points, at 13,275.20. The Nasdaq index rose 0.46 percent, or 14.20 points, to 3,076.59.

The summer calm is in stark contrast to the same time last year, when markets were swinging wildly amid the downgrade of United States debt and fears that Greece would default on its bonds and the United States was headed for a double-dip recession. Since those lows, American stocks are up over 25 percent.

The index that is used to track the volatility of the markets, referred to as the VIX, fell this week to 13.45, its lowest level since 2007. It had risen to a high of 48 last August.

Earlier this summer, it appeared that Wall Street would again have its vacation season ruined as concerns about Spain’s economy threatened to force the country to leave the euro. Most of the credit for the change in sentiment since is given to Mr. Draghi of the European Central Bank. His message in July about supporting the euro was reinforced this week by the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, who praised Mr. Draghi in a visit to Canada.

Since Mr. Draghi’s comments, the main Spanish stock index is up almost 15 percent and the yields on Spanish government bonds have fallen sharply, with the 10-year bond interest rate dropping to 6.4 percent on Friday, from a high of 7.5 percent last month.

But European leaders have managed to temporarily calm the markets at several times over the last few years, only to see the problems re-emerge. Many economists are nervously awaiting a September ruling from a German court on the constitutionality of the European rescue fund that was announced this summer and that is seen as a crucial element in any recovery.

Even if the court approves the program, there are still fundamental weaknesses in the Spanish, Italian and Greek economies, which do not appear to be improving as the governments continue to cut their budgets. The Spanish central bank said Friday that the number of bad loans in the country grew in the first half of the year.

“The Europeans have repeatedly said, ‘We have a plan to calm the situation,’ and then it failed,” said Neal Soss, the chief economist at Credit Suisse. “You certainly can’t ignore that history. But at the same time, at this moment this plan looks a bit more convincing.”

In the United States, investors were encouraged by reports this week showing that retail spending rose in July for the first time in four months. And the number of people filing for unemployment benefits has been falling slightly after jumping earlier this summer. But the Federal Reserve banks in Philadelphia and New York both said this week that manufacturing in their regions continued to decline. This has led economists to stick to their projections of slow growth through the rest of the year.

“I don’t think the fundamentals have improved a lot,” said Kevin Giddis, the head of bond trading at Morgan Keegan.

Looking ahead, many analysts say they are worried that even the current slow rate of growth could be jeopardized by the so-called fiscal cliff at the end of the year, when taxes are scheduled to rise if Congress takes no action. No one in the investing world is expecting Congress to take any steps to help the economy before the election in November.

The discouraging economic data earlier this summer had increased the probability that the Federal Reserve would provide more monetary stimulus for the economy. And the prospect of the central bank buying government bonds pushed other investors to do the same, driving down yields to historic lows.

Even though the recent improvement in the economic outlook has been slight, it has been enough to convince many investors that the Fed is not likely to take action anytime soon. This has been the primary explanation given for the sharp rise in government bond yields of the last three weeks.

But many bond investors have said that they are not selling their holdings yet. David Ader, a bond strategist at CRT Capital Group, said that the recent spike in bond yields was largely related to the slowness of the summer trading environment. He said that with fewer people at their trading desks, when one person decides to sell, it pushes the price up more.

“Let’s not confuse a change in prices for a change in facts,” Mr. Ader said. “We have not gotten a lot of new information.”
476 2012-08-18 On the standout Baltimore Orioles baseball teams of the late 1970s, Eddie Murray, the Hall of Fame first baseman, shared the infield with the all-star third baseman Doug DeCinces.Federal regulators say that decades later, the two close friends sha...
477 2012-08-18 Want to better understand the crazy world of technology stocks? That requires having a grasp of something that can best be described as the curse of the ordinary.That curse could mean that Facebook, which is already down by nearly 50 percent from ...
478 2012-08-18 The coming Off Broadway premiere of "Harper Regan," a  critically acclaimed British play  about family alienation and the limits of loyalty, will star Mary McCann as the title character, one of the richest female roles on tap in New York theater t...
479 2012-08-18 Too big to fail? What about too important to sell?The British government has placed a temporary export ban on a privately owned Picasso "Blue Period" painting, saying that the work - made in 1901 and on loan for decades to the National Gallery in ...
480 2012-08-19 Condé Nast, the magazine publisher, will go from being a client of the digital advertising company Flite to owning about 11 percent of it....
481 2012-08-19 Based on some loose historical precedents, the remarks that the Republican Senate candidate Todd Akin of Missouri made about pregnancy and rape could be enough to swing the polls to the incumbent, Claire McCaskill....
482 2012-08-19 The CME Group is planning to start a European derivatives exchange, in a significant expansion of the American market operator's global footprint....
483 2012-08-19 The White House has granted Michael Lewis, the best-selling author of "Moneyball" and "The Big Short," extensive access to President Obama for an article in the October issue of Vanity Fair....
484 2012-08-19 My objections to my son's musical choices aren't about taste, but about lyrics that objectify women and legitimize violence against them....
485 2012-08-19 Yasamine Hashemi and Mark Christopher Viehland were married Saturday in New York. The Rev. James Leonard, a Baptist minister, officiated at the New York Palace Hotel.

The bride, 29, is taking her husband’s name. She works in New York as a lawyer in the ethics office of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. She graduated from Stanford and received a law degree from Boston University.

She is a daughter of Mahin S. Hashemi and Amir H. Hashemi of Montville, N.J. The bride’s father is the founder and president of a real estate investment and retail sales firm in Montville that bears his name.

The groom, 30, works in New York as a vice president in the investment banking division of Credit Suisse, where he deals with business development and strategic planning. He graduated from the College of William and Mary.

He is a son of Beth D. Viehland and Douglas G. Viehland of Leawood, Kan. The groom’s father is the executive director of Accreditation of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs in Overland Park, Kan.
486 2012-08-19 MOSCOW (Agence France-Presse) — Masked gunmen burst into a mosque in the troubled Russian Caucasus region of Dagestan, wounding eight, the regional interior ministry said Saturday amid reports that more people were injured in an explosion.

“The number of wounded in the shooting at the mosque in the town of Khasavyurt has risen to eight,” the interior ministry said after two unidentified gunmen opened fire on worshipers in the Shiite mosque on Saturday evening as they celebrated the end of Ramadan.

Three people suffered gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen, while others were shot in the arms and legs, the ministry said in a statement.

Citing the local police, RIA Novosti news agency said more people were injured in an explosion in the mosque after the gun attack in the town, which is in the west of the largely Muslim region.

“An explosion went off,” the police told the agency. “Altogether there were two explosive devices. One went off, the other is being defused.”
487 2012-08-19 Movistar won the team time trial in the opening stage of the Vuelta a España in Pamplona, Spain, making Jonathan Castroviejo the race leader. Castroviejo led Movistar across the finish line in 18 minutes 51 seconds. The 10.25-mile ride was Alberto Contador’s first race in front of his home fans since serving a doping ban.
488 2012-08-19 “That has a good sound to it,” Valentine said when asked about another good start by Lester. “Another fine performance by Lester it was. He is a confident, aggressive, good-looking pitcher.”

Since the 11-run debacle, Lester’s E.R.A. is 3.47; in his last four starts, he is 2-2 with a 2.93 E.R.A. In his previous 11 starts, he was 2-5 with a 6.82 E.R.A., and he had lost five straight decisions before he finally won his last two. With Saturday’s victory, his record improved to 7-10.

“When you look at the numbers, and you step back because you know that’s not the type of pitcher he really is,” the Yankees’ Nick Swisher said. “Tonight, you got the best Jon Lester that we’ve seen in a while.”

On Sunday night, Beckett, who is 5-10 with a 5.19 E.R.A, will attempt to follow Lester’s lead against Hiroki Kuroda.

Curtis Granderson was the only Yankee to get to Lester, tagging him in the fourth inning for his 32nd home run of the season to halve Boston’s lead, at 2-1. But the Yankees went 0 for 9 with runners in scoring position in an echo of a problem that plagued them earlier in the season — an inability to cash in on scoring chances.

“When you don’t do that, you’re usually going to lose games,” Manager Joe Girardi said.

Adrian Gonzalez staked Lester to a lead in the first inning with a two-run homer, only his 14th home run of the season, and Lester never gave it back. Girardi and Swisher praised Lester’s fastball command, and Girardi also complimented his mixture of pitches that kept the Yankees off balance, especially in key counts. But Granderson said he noticed something else.

“He had that good cutter that he’s always had,” Granderson said. “It’s got a lot of movement on it, and it sweeps across the plate and makes it hard to hit.”

David Phelps, the Yankees pitcher who may have been making his last start in place of C. C. Sabathia, was given an earnest ovation as he walked off the mound in the seventh inning, even though he was trailing, 3-1, and would eventually lose for the first time since June 29. But the fans, aware that Phelps has done an admirable job while filling in for Sabathia, who has been on the disabled list with elbow soreness, were eager to show their appreciation.

In his two starts as Sabathia’s stand-in, Phelps went 1-1 and allowed five earned runs in 112/3 innings. On Aug. 13, he gave up two runs in five innings to beat the Texas Rangers; on Saturday, he allowed three runs in six and two-thirds innings.

But Sabathia appears close to returning. He threw 23 pitches in the bullpen Saturday and reported no problems with his injured left elbow. To Sabathia, that was confirmation that he could pitch in Cleveland on Friday, when he is eligible to come off the D.L.

“I’m pitching on Friday,” he declared before Saturday’s game.

Girardi responded to the development by saying: “I have to put his name in the lineup. Our hope is that he can pitch Friday. But I want to give ourselves a little leeway in case he needs an extra day. That’s why I’m not being committal to it.”

Derek Jeter went 0 for 3 on Saturday as his hitting streak ended at 13 games. ... Robinson Cano went 0 for 4 as his slump continued.
489 2012-08-19 Karl Fleming, a former Newsweek reporter who dodged bullets and choked on tear gas while covering some of the most momentous events of the civil rights era, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84.

The cause was respiratory illness, his son Charles said.

A son of the South, Mr. Fleming was in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on June 11, 1963, when Gov. George C. Wallace fulfilled his pledge to “stand in the schoolhouse door” and then stepped aside when handed a presidential order to allow two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama. Days later, Mr. Fleming was in Jackson, Miss., reporting on the murder of the civil rights leader Medgar Evers.

He covered the Freedom Summer of 1964, when college students from around the country went to Mississippi to join in a voter registration drive. And after three of those volunteers — Michael Schwerner, James Chaney and Andrew Goodman — were jailed, released and found shot to death weeks later, Mr. Fleming was one of the first two reporters to arrive in Philadelphia, Miss.

The other was Claude Sitton of The New York Times, a Georgia native with whom Mr. Fleming worked closely. “Karl was a really good reporter, sharp, fast,” Mr. Sitton said on Monday. “When he and I got on a story that might be breaking in a couple of different places, Karl and I would exchange information.”

Gene Roberts, a co-author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book “The Race Beat: The Press, the Civil Rights Struggle and the Awakening of a Nation” (2006), said Mr. Fleming was “one of the nation’s top civil rights reporters, the point man on some of the hairiest of the civil rights stories.”
490 2012-08-19 Yet because tech dividend yields, expressed as a percentage of stock prices, are not especially high, this sector is still overlooked when it comes to equity income strategies. The average tech yield stands at 1.6 percent, versus 2.3 percent for the broad market.

Even tech stocks with better-than-average yields may be getting short shrift. Mr. Hone noted that Microsoft, for example, had a healthy yield of 2.6 percent. That dividend has grown at a market-beating annual rate of 15 percent over the past five years, yet Microsoft shares trade at a P/E of just 10.1,based on projected earnings.

Kent L. Johnson, co-manager of the Sit Dividend Growth fund, agreed that dividend investors should not overlook tech. Among his fund’s top holdings are I.B.M., Microsoft and Intel. Mr. Johnson noted that Intel, with a dividend yield of 3.2 percent and a projected P/E ratio of just 10.2, “yields twice what 10-year Treasuries do, but it trades at a valuation that’s just two-thirds that of utility stocks.

“Those are the types of opportunities we’re looking for,” he said.

To be sure, Sit Dividend Growth approaches dividend investing in a slightly unconventional way. Instead of focusing on stocks with the highest yields, “what we’re trying to do is to find growth stocks — companies with strong top-line sales growth, strong cash flow and healthy balance sheets — that happen to pay decent yields,” said Roger J. Sit, another co-manager of the fund.

That has driven the fund both to tech and to other classic growth areas of the market. These include industrial stocks, like those of the farm equipment maker Deere & Company, and health care stocks like Cardinal Health, a pharmaceutical distributor. Both have dividend yields of more than 2.2 percent and trade at valuations of around 10 times projected earnings.

In general, tech, industrial and health care stocks share a couple of attractive traits: earnings of all three grew faster than the broad market in the second quarter. And the average P/E ratio for all three is lower than that of the S.& P. 500.

“You have to fish where the fish are, and for dividend investors that means going to places where there’s enough income for dividends to be paid out today as well as tomorrow,” said Mark R. Freeman, chief investment officer at the Westwood Holdings Group, an asset management firm. But, Mr. Freeman said, you also have to fish in areas that are hospitable to value-minded investors. After all, investors aren’t simply buying income; they are also buying the underlying stock.

If investors are gravitating toward frothy areas like utilities because they crave stability, he added, they should consider shares of industry-leading companies with strong balance sheets in places like tech, industrials and health care.

CHRIS CORDARO, chief investment officer at RegentAtlantic Capital, added that dividend seekers should also be willing to look abroad for reasonably priced sources of income. He noted that the yield on the Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets index was nearly 3 percent. “Yet these economies are forecast to grow the fastest over the next 5 to 10 years,” he said.

Mr. Cordaro added that dividends were just one element of total returns, and that “investors should look at a number of different dimensions.” These include earnings and fundamental factors, including valuations.

If they do that, he said, they’ll realize that many of the best opportunities for dividends are found in the fastest-growing areas of the market.
491 2012-08-19 Liverpool was the big casualty on the Premier League’s opening day, losing by 3-0 at West Bromwich Albion on Saturday, while Arsenal began life without Robin van Persie with a frustrating 0-0 draw against Sunderland.

Goals were not a problem for Fulham and Swansea, with both enjoying 5-0 routs, while the former Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas made a miserable return to the league as Tottenham lost, 2-1, at Newcastle.

The focus Saturday was off last season’s top two, with Manchester City beginning its title defense on Sunday and Manchester United, which was denied the trophy in the final seconds of the last season, playing on Monday.

That put the spotlight on Liverpool, which experienced its worst opening day defeat since 1937 in another reminder of just how far it has slipped behind the title challengers.

“I thought the score line was harsh, I’ve got to be honest,” Liverpool’s new manager, Brendan Rodgers, said. “Up until they scored the first goal, it looked as though we were the team who were going to get it.”
492 2012-08-19 “Of course, there are times when punting is a good idea,” Romer said in an e-mail message, “just not nearly as many as football coaches seem to think.”

Brian Burke, the publisher of advancednflstats.com, said teams should go for a first down when they faced fourth-and-1, or when it was fourth down from the opponent’s 35 to 40. Burke also said that he believed that teams should try to score a touchdown when facing fourth-and-goal from the 6 or closer, assuming a last-second field goal is not called for.

“If everyone agrees out of fear or ignorance to sort of play ultraconservative, nobody really has an advantage,” Burke said. “There’s no development, no evolution. Coaches have strategies that are generations behind where the sport really is. It’s going to take someone to stick their neck out.”

Coaches are hesitant to take the plunge because a string of failed fourth-down attempts could leave them vulnerable to criticism and affect their job security more than a conservative menu of punts ever could.

“From different eras, there was a mind-set that playing the field-possession game is a good thing, because it turned the ball to the other team 40 yards away and allows them to make a mistake,” the former Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. “Coaches, by nature, are a little bit defensive in their thinking.”

According to Dr. Curt Lox, a professor of kinesiology and sports psychology at Southern Illinois-Edwardsville, the candidates best in position to experiment with a punt-free strategy are those who are so established and successful that they are almost immune to criticism of their strategy, or those who are unknown underdogs with nothing to lose.

Kevin Kelley, the head coach at Pulaski Academy in Little Rock, Ark., fit the second description when he was hired in 2003. That year, he came across a grainy VHS tape of a professor espousing the potential virtues of a punt-free lifestyle. Kelley was intrigued and has since become perhaps the most unorthodox coach in the nation.

His high school team does onside kicks after almost every score. It does not use a punt returner, because Kelley believes fumbles and penalties occur more often than strong returns. And it does not punt. Last season, the Bruins went 14-0 and won the Class 4A state title.

“It was easy to convince the players, because they grow up playing PlayStation and Madden and they don’t punt in those games, so they don’t want to punt in real games,” Kelley said. “The fans were a different story.”

When Kelley unveiled his aggressive offense, his tactics were questioned by Pulaski administrators and school board members. Once, when Pulaski defied its own logic and punted, it received a standing ovation from the home crowd.

“I remember turning around and saying, ‘You’re the only people in the history of football that stand and cheer for a punt,’ ” Kelley said.

It would be ineffective, Kelley said, for college and professional coaches to decide in the middle of a game to attempt a risky fourth-down play simply because statistics supported the call. If they embraced the model, the structure of their play calling would be tailored toward it.

Kelley’s offense thrives because the possibilities are endless. Third-and-7 is not necessarily a passing down, and third-and-inches is not necessarily a running down.

“And God help the defense on first-and-10,” Kelley said, “because we can literally do anything.”

In recent years, Kelley has consulted with college and N.F.L. teams. He said one offensive coordinator for a team in the Big 12 Conference was enthralled by the idea of never punting, but the head coach was spooked by the risks. Then the offensive coordinator became a head coach, and he got cold feet, too.

Kelley has shared his philosophy with two A.F.C. coaches whose hesitancy outweighed their curiosity.

“These coaches are making millions of dollars, and if they lose close games doing it the traditional way, they’ll probably keep their jobs,” Kelley said.

Pro and college punters, already a solitary lot, are understandably defensive when facing such an existential question. If there was no punting, there would be no punters.

“Obviously, we don’t get to score points,” said Bobby Cowan, a senior punter at Idaho whose average of 46.41 yards a kick was second in the nation last season. “But when you pin a team on the 1-inch line and your team gets a safety, that’s kind of your 2 points. Plus, you get the ball back, so you could basically score 9 points for your team.”

Minnesota Vikings punter Chris Kluwe understands the data that says most teams punt too often.

But, Kluwe said, unlike baseball and its sabermetric-friendly 162-game season, a 16-game football season is not a large enough sample for a definitive stance.

“Over the long run, your offense might convert enough of those fourth downs to be worth it,” Kluwe said. “The problem is if you run into a couple of bad plays in one game, you’re going to lose.”

And in football, one extra loss could keep a team out of the playoffs. But for punters like Kluwe, perhaps there is a happy medium, a way to embrace this new way of thinking without turning punters into relics.

“I’m all for running fake punts,” Kluwe said. “That’s our one time to shine.”
493 2012-08-19 The official narrative, laid out at a trial of Ms. Gu on Aug. 9, said that Ms. Gu and Mr. Wang intended to lure Mr. Heywood to Chongqing, where Mr. Wang would then shoot Mr. Heywood in a drug-related arrest attempt, according to courtroom observers.

After Mr. Wang backed out of the plot, Ms. Gu poisoned Mr. Heywood with the help of a family aide, and then confessed to the murder in a talk with Mr. Wang, who secretly recorded the conversation. The account by the official Xinhua news agency, though, barely mentioned Mr. Wang.

Four policemen under Mr. Wang were tried separately on charges of harboring Ms. Gu.

Legal experts and some political observers in China say some of the evidence presented in court lacks credibility. Hu Shuli, a prominent Chinese journalist, wrote Wednesday that parts of the official murder narrative had raised “suspicions.”

Nevertheless, the state is expected to soon mete out its brand of justice against Mr. Wang, too. He could go on trial this month for his flight on Feb. 6 to the American Consulate in the nearby city of Chengdu, where he told United States diplomats of the Heywood murder before being escorted to Beijing by state security officers. The charge against him is likely to be treason, which potentially carries a death sentence, though officials may show leniency because Mr. Wang has cooperated with investigations, said several people with knowledge of the case.

A tough sentence for the enigmatic Mr. Wang, 52, could open the Obama administration to criticism over why it did not grant him more protection. American officials say Mr. Wang left the consulate of his own volition and did not apply for asylum.

Even if he had, they say, he would not necessarily have presented a compelling case because of the evidence of human rights abuses carried out under his authority. That view is supported by residents here with police contacts.

“Maybe in the beginning, he wanted to do something, he wanted to be a hero,” one such person said. “But once he came over, he saw something very complicated. It wasn’t like he had thought it would be.”

Mr. Wang arrived in June 2008 to take on the post of deputy police chief. He had been hired from Liaoning Province, in northeast China, by Mr. Bo, the Communist Party aristocrat who had been governor of Liaoning before becoming commerce minister and then party chief of Chongqing. Mr. Wang, from Inner Mongolia, had risen through the ranks of police departments in Liaoning. His exploits there became grist for a television series, “Iron-Blooded Police Spirits.” There were some complaints of torture under his command, but he left the province a star.

He was promoted in March 2009 to police chief. But he associated with shadowy figures. He was close to a secretive Bo family henchman, Yu Junshi, a former military intelligence officer, said several people here. Whenever Mr. Yu called, Mr. Wang would pick up the phone. After two of Mr. Yu’s dogs bit a man to death last year, Mr. Wang, rather than pursuing charges, persuaded Mr. Yu to put the dogs to sleep.

Mr. Wang also ran in celebrity circles. One night in February 2009, Mr. Wang had drinks in a Hilton hotel suite with Zhao Benshan, a famous comedian whom Mr. Wang knew from Liaoning. Mr. Wang told a story about how he once had police officers beat up every member of a gang under arrest except for a friend of Mr. Zhao’s, according to a microblog post by Zhang Mingyu, a disgruntled real estate mogul who was in the hotel suite. With a laugh, Mr. Wang also told of how he had suspects taken to an execution ground and ordered shots fired into the air to frighten them into informing, Mr. Zhang wrote.

Mr. Wang enjoyed the grand gesture. In December 2009, when the police detained a lawyer, Li Zhuang, on suspicion of suborning perjury in a Chongqing legal case and flew him from Beijing back to Chongqing, Mr. Wang was on hand when he stepped off the airplane.

Mr. Wang had arranged for the plane to be surrounded by police vehicles with flashing lights, officers with helmets and submachine guns and television news crews, Mr. Li recalled in an interview with The New York Times months after his release from prison. Mr. Wang stood with his hands in the pockets of a dark yellow overcoat. “Li Zhuang, we meet again,” Mr. Wang said.

Even Mr. Wang’s ordinary public appearances were noteworthy. He went everywhere with an entourage of policemen dressed in dark overcoats, and two officers would always catch his own overcoat when he shrugged it off. In restaurants, he would demand the entire floor be blocked off. He brought his own food and drink or asked that the restaurant’s be tested. To get to the airport, he would sometimes take a police helicopter.

But Mr. Wang also showed a keen interest in the day-to-day details of police work. Among nearly 200 patents he filed is one for traffic police islands where officers work on laptops. Mr. Wang also designed police boots, uniforms and rain jackets.

People say Mr. Wang was genuinely interested in crime solving. He obsessed over criminal psychology and surveillance technology. He admired Henry C. Lee, the Taiwanese-American forensic scientist made famous during the O. J. Simpson trial.

Dr. Lee said he first met Mr. Wang more than 25 years ago in Japan, where Dr. Lee was giving a speech at a conference. Mr. Wang walked up afterward and “said he was really proud that a Chinese scientist had been invited to be a keynote speaker,” Dr. Lee recalled.

Last year, Dr. Lee gave a lecture in Chongqing, and about 20 officers went to train at the Henry C. Lee Institute of Forensic Science in West Haven, Conn., where Mr. Wang is an honorary research professor.

Mr. Wang’s main legacy as police chief has been the “strike black” campaign, dreamed up by Mr. Bo and billed as a crackdown on organized crime and police corruption. Over a 10-month period starting in June 2009, nearly 4,800 people were detained. Many were held in secret jails, and tales of torture abound. Thirteen people were executed. By one estimate, about 1,700 police officers were fired under Mr. Wang.

At the time, the campaign appeared to be the high point of Mr. Wang’s career. A team of writers was hired to write a four-volume history of the crackdown; a “Godfather”-style movie and television series were to follow.

But things fell apart quickly for Mr. Wang last year. A central government investigatory body pressed an inquiry into corruption in the city of Tieling, where Mr. Wang had been police chief. Tensions built between him and Mr. Bo. Then the Heywood death took place. Three months later, Mr. Wang fled to the American Consulate after being demoted by Mr. Bo, who he said punched him in the face during a confrontation over the Heywood death. Mr. Wang then disappeared into the maw of state security, and the Chongqing government said he was undergoing “vacation-style therapy.”
494 2012-08-19 A symbol of 1950s-era Southern California, the drive-in has shown resilience in today’s trying economy. Entry is cheap, the atmosphere is relaxed and, for some, the memories are unbeatable....
495 2012-08-19 ON a recent evening, I struggled to hold a squat during what felt like a wildly electric earthquake. Forget the burn of the pose; my chief discomfort was the way my brain seemed to rattle, my ears buzzing.

I was standing on a Power Plate machine, a type of vibrating exercise platform developed in the 1960s for the Soviet space program as a way to preserve bone density and muscle mass in astronauts. The machine, which resembles a doctor’s scale on steroids, has had a recent renaissance, marketed as a way to intensify workouts and glamorized by stars like Madonna and Mark Wahlberg.

Andrew Barile, a physical therapist who had encountered the technology in rehabilitation centers and European beauty salons, brought the machines to New York in 2007.  Mr. Barile opened Station Fitness, a so-called vibration studio, in Chelsea. Each exercise class there is centered on the Power Plate and often incorporates free weights. The sessions are only 25 minutes long and limited to four participants with a personal trainer.

My group was directed by Suszannah Warner, a professional boxer. After a round of squats, we performed calf raises, push-ups and plank-position holds at 45-second intervals, our miniature black-and-silver platforms wriggling furiously beneath us.

“Be proud!” Ms. Warner shouted, alternately correcting our postures with a stern expression and bopping to TLC’s “Waterfalls” with a smile. “I don’t know what that means, but be proud. Stay with it, ladies,” she said.

After the session, alas, I felt not so much proud as that I had undergone electroshock therapy. I traveled the short three blocks home in more time than the class had taken, pausing to rest on every other stoop.
496 2012-08-19 WAY DOWN IN THE HOLE

This article brought back memories of my dad, who worked in construction in New York in the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s. I will never forget the conversations we had about all of the projects he worked on, but most of all, what he said about the Second Avenue Subway in the mid-1970s. He said, “John, not in my lifetime, and probably not in yours, will anyone ever ride on the Second Avenue Subway.” JOHN C., Poughkeepsie, N.Y., posted on nytimes.com

As a fellow photographer, I think one of the great pleasures of our little world is the occasional access to marvelous things that most people are barred from. Your photographs are bound to become valuable historical documents, as well as moving works for the soul. DURSTON SAYLOR, New York

I hope the planners of the Second Avenue line will address two inconveniences: heat on platforms and rush-hour delays. The current trains release immense heat via brake pads. But regenerative braking, similar to hybrid cars, sends almost all of that energy back into the grid, saving fuel and our collective sanity. To avoid train delays, planners should install an entrance platform on the right side of the train and an exit on the left, thus avoiding the human logjam we now have. Why not try these and other innovations on the new line before it’s too late? TIMOTHY NAYLOR, Brooklyn

Do you know how subways are made? Here’s a small hint: kinda looks like mining on that asteroid in Armageddon. @smugglersite, posted on Twitter

Jonathan Mahler chose to define Oakland solely in terms of the Occupy movement, and further define that movement solely in terms of its most radical fringe. As a resident of one of Oakland’s troubled neighborhoods and as an Occupy participant who has a job, I was saddened to see the movement hijacked by a radical fringe of self-styled anarchists, who agitated a police force with a history of excessive violence that goes back long before Occupy. I am not denying that the radical fringe exists, but the article exaggerated that single aspect to create a desired flavor. MIKE WOOLSON, Oakland, Calif.

As a third-generation Oaklander and as a member of the Art Murmur organization that Jonathan Mahler writes about, I take issue with the insulting manner with which he presents the art scene in Oakland. Our city was recently selected by The New York Times as one of the Top 5 places to visit this year, ahead of Tokyo and behind London. We now have artists, gallerists and collectors visiting the Art Murmur from as far away as Germany and Brazil. We’re not just about “Sharpie-on-foam-cup drawings” — we work in a variety of media, including oil and acrylic on canvas, bronze, found objects, photography, glass, wood and plastic, among many others. KEN EHRHARDT, Oakland, Calif.

Community antiviolence programs like Operation Ceasefire need to be implemented in Oakland, and overpaid cops and firefighters need to take a 10 percent pay cut. The city can divide the extra money: half to new police officers and half to social services. Oakland also needs to accept that gentrification has its perks. Our city is great, and that’s why 400,000 people call it home. ADRIAN NAPOLITANO, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com
497 2012-08-19 The  Delano  hotel is getting an outpost in  Moscow , according to executives with the Morgans Hotel Group, which was set to finalize the deal last week. The 160-room hotel, scheduled to open in 2015, is to be owned by the Capital Group and manage...
498 2012-08-19 THE word ''discontinued'' appeared next to the five bottom items on a price sheet issued recently by Mercedes-Benz USA for its 2013 vehicles. It was a jarring coda to the jumble of dollar signs, commas and digits -- many of them stretching to six ...
499 2012-08-20 Chugging behind a whale in an inflatable vessel, researchers may have only a precious second or two to affix an electronic tag to its glistening back. The tag precisely tracks the animal's movements....
500 2012-08-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
501 2012-08-20 Both doctors and patients have a responsibility to consider the benefits and risks before deciding on a radiation-based imaging procedure....
502 2012-08-20 The move, set for November, will leave Paramount Pictures with a prominent hole in its pipeline....
503 2012-08-20 On Monday Apple became the most highly valued public company ever, but Microsoft still holds the record when its 1999 value is adjusted for inflation....
504 2012-08-20 After less than a day of deliberations, a federal jury found Doug Whitman of Whitman Capital in Menlo Park, Calif., guilty of earning about $1 million in illegal profits trading technology stocks, including Google and Polycom....
505 2012-08-20 James V. Mazzo, the chief of Advanced Medical Optics, may have some legal strategies to defend against insider trading charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission....
506 2012-08-20 Lead Bucks blogger Ann Carrns responds to readers who wonder why she still does business with a big, money-center bank. The reasons include convenience....
507 2012-08-20 People with type O blood appear to have a lower risk of heart disease than others, recent studies have shown, but experts caution that it is most likely a modest link....
508 2012-08-20 Senator Scott P. Brown on Monday called on Representative Todd Akin of Missouri, a fellow Republican, to quit his Senate race, saying that his comments on rape were too far out of bounds....
509 2012-08-20 David O. Sacks, the chief executive of Yammer, who recently sold his business to Microsoft for $1.2 billion, is suddenly bearish on start-ups. On Saturday, he wrote on Facebook: "I think Silicon Valley as we know it may be coming to an end."...
510 2012-08-20 The Mississippi River Commission's annual low-water inspection tour is two weeks of travel and talk in which the panel that advises the Army Corps of Engineers on managing the mighty river speaks directly with the American people....
511 2012-08-20 Tensions over Greek bailout could unsettle markets. | How a new wave of advanced robots is changing manufacturing. | "Fifty Shades of Grey" is making erotic fiction mainstream....
512 2012-08-20 Tensions over Greek bailout could unsettle markets. | How a new wave of advanced robots is changing manufacturing. | "Fifty Shades of Grey" is making erotic fiction mainstream.
513 2012-08-20 The Apple-Samsung patent trial is expected to wind down this week, and legal experts say a victory for either company could have broad implications for makers of smartphones and tablet computers, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's New York Times....
514 2012-08-20 Plus: Do you delegate too much? Do you ask dumb questions? (That's a good thing.) And have you tried to get a microloan?...
515 2012-08-20 A former top-10 player, Andrea Petkovic has had what any professional athlete would describe as a nightmare season in 2012....
516 2012-08-20 Students are beginning to benefit from a Supreme Court law that mandates 25 percent reservation in admissions for those whose families make less than $1,800 annually....
517 2012-08-20 “This is how good he’s been,” Girardi said. “He’s been on a tremendous roll for us.”

Kuroda and the 38-year-old Suzuki, who grew up in cities two hours apart from each other in Japan, have each reinvigorated the ends of their careers with their tenures in the Bronx. Both are soft-spoken, intensely regimented and constantly under the microscope of the dozen or so Japanese reporters who trail their every move.

The enigmatic Suzuki eats the same rice-ball dinner before every game and follows an intricate stretching routine, whether he is in the starting lineup or not. Kuroda is considered among the hardest-working players in baseball.

Together, they have made an impressive impact. Kuroda is 9-2 with a 2.21 earned run average over his last 16 outings. And Suzuki is hitting .322 in 26 games since being traded to the Yankees on July 23.

“Everyone knows how good a hitter he is,” shortstop Derek Jeter said. “He hits the ball to left field, center field, right field; he’s got speed and he showed he can hit some home runs every once in a while.”

Girardi said of Suzuki and Kuroda: “The one thing I see in both of them is they’re extremely prepared and ready to go. And they expect a lot from themselves.”

The Red Sox (59-63) viewed Sunday’s rubber game as an opportunity to salvage some dignity in a forgettable season in which they had already lost 7 of 11 games to the rival Yankees.

Before the game, Red Sox General Manager Ben Cherington sat in the visitors’ dugout attempting to explain why his team was in fourth place in the American League East at this point in August.

“Although we have been scrutinized, there’s a reason for it,” Cherington said. “Things aren’t going the way we wanted them to. We’ve made that bed ourselves and it’s up to us to make it better. If we make things better, there’ll be less scrutiny.”

Cherington lost out on signing Kuroda in the off-season, a miss that did not reverberate much at the time but has since become pivotal to the Yankees’ success (Kuroda agreed to a one-year, $10 million deal).

Meanwhile, Boston’s Josh Beckett scuffled through another start, allowing four runs and seven hits in six innings.

The Yankees were playing without their leading run producer, Mark Teixeira, who was held out of the lineup for a third straight game with a sore left wrist, but got on the board in the first on a run-scoring double by Curtis Granderson.

In the fourth, Suzuki crushed a high fastball into the second deck in right field for a bases-empty homer to put the Yankees ahead, 3-0. He added another home run in the sixth, and the crowd swooned. They serenaded Suzuki for a minute until he popped out of the dugout for a momentary curtain call.

“Sometimes you just don’t know how to react, the timing of when to acknowledge it,” Suzuki said through an interpreter. “But it definitely felt good.”

He ran up the dugout steps, took off his helmet and gave a quick bow. The cheers rumbled on throughout the night, as Suzuki played the field, as his face appeared on the video board, and as he ran into the clubhouse after the victory.

“I just feel so good coming into this clubhouse after a win, just like any other day,” Suzuki said. “That’s what I love about this Yankees clubhouse.”

Derek Jeter’s 3-for-4 night put him one hit short of tying Nap Lajoie for 12th on the career hits list. ... Alex Rodriguez (broken left hand) and Andy Pettitte (broken left ankle) received X-rays before the game, and both injuries are healing, Manager Joe Girardi said. But Rodriguez cannot yet swing and Pettitte cannot yet throw off a mound.
518 2012-08-20 When companies go to trial, as Apple and Samsung have learned, the public gets to hear corporate secrets. Among those revealed:

WHERE IPHONES AND IPADS COME FROM When Apple designs new products, about 15 industrial designers typically huddle around a kitchen table inside the locked-down design studio at Apple’s headquarters.

NUDE IPHONES ARE IN THE MINORITY According to an internal consumer survey by Apple presented as evidence during the trial, 78 percent of iPhone users cover their phones with cases.

MICROSOFT AND APPLE ARE BUDDIES Apple doesn’t go after all of its rivals in court to accuse them of stepping on its patents. An Apple executive testified that the company had licensed some of its patents to Microsoft, with the proviso that Microsoft cannot copy Apple’s products.

SMALLER IPADS AREN’T ANATHEMA TO APPLE Steven P. Jobs, the Apple chief who died last year, publicly scorned smaller tablets with seven-inch screens, saying they weren’t usable. But Eddy Cue, an Apple senior vice president, said that Mr. Jobs was “very receptive” to the idea of making a seven-inch iPad, according to an e-mail Mr. Cue sent to colleagues in early 2011.

APPLE MAKES FAR MORE MONEY Both Samsung and Apple revealed more about their device sales than they normally do. Samsung revealed it took in $460 in revenue on each tablet, on average, while Apple said it did better: $558.

SAMSUNG WANTS TO MEASURE UP A 132-page evaluation made by Samsung comparing its Galaxy phone with the iPhone revealed in excruciating detail that Samsung had serious iPhone envy. The lines between the numbers in the Galaxy’s calculator were too thick, for example.
519 2012-08-20 The volume of water coming down the river is so much lower than normal this summer that a wedge of salt water is creeping up the Mississippi toward New Orleans, imperiling local water supplies drawn from the river. The corps is building a sill — basically, a dam of sediment — in the river below New Orleans low enough to block the flow of salt water while letting boats pass.

When the Mississippi is low, the flow slows and sediment settles, causing the river to silt up and obstructions to form, said James T. Pogue, a spokesman for the corps in Memphis. Since 1988, when record low water on the Mississippi caused navigation to shut down, the corps has engineered ways “to help the river keep itself open,” he said, building new features like dikes that stick out into the river and “sort of act like nozzles to speed up the flow of the river” to scour the bed.

Such river training structures help to reduce the amount of dredging necessary by making the river do much of the work. The result, he said, is that even if water reaches the levels that it did before, “we’ll still be in better shape than we were in ’88.”

The river’s problems are the main topic aboard the Motor Vessel Mississippi, a giant towboat fitted by the corps with meeting rooms and used during its annual low-water inspection trip, which included a public hearing in Alton, Ill., on Friday. Some of the speakers complained about the corps’ management of the river during last year’s floods, when water at Vicksburg was nearly 59 feet higher than it has been during this year’s drought. That is the nature of the river — an engineered system, managed but hardly controlled.

Col. Christopher G. Hall, the commander of the St. Louis district of the corps, in comments to the commission on Friday, said, “We feel we can provide safe and reliable navigation” under projections over the next 28 days.

While the corps is keeping the main navigation channel of the Mississippi open, the same cannot be said for the harbors along the river. Four of the 19 harbors that the corps is responsible for keeping open on the lower Mississippi have been closed, and the corps has estimated that eight more would probably be closed if the drought continues over the next month.

That is why the Potter is here, keeping the channel to the river’s authorized navigation depth of nine feet. Built in 1932, the Potter has been around so long that the corps upgraded it to diesel from steam power in 2001. The dredge, pulling itself along steel cables with winches to move in precise lines and its engines and pump thrumming, works its way through the muck.

On this day, the operators had to raise the dustpan-shaped intake head every half-hour or so to clear a bit of cable or scrap. “It’s a real trashy spot right here,” said Randy Jowers, assistant master on the vessel. Bits that get past the dustpan clatter by the impeller with a clang that can be felt throughout the ship.

Down the river a bit, the floating offices of JB Marine Service south of St. Louis are not actually floating these days. The landward side of the barge, moored by the banks of the river, rests instead on the emerging shore, tilted at the kind of angle that probably makes it difficult to keep pencils on desks.

Even at nine feet, the shallower Mississippi has been a trial for companies like American Commercial Lines in Jeffersonville, Ind., which operates about 2,000 barges along the nation’s inland waterways. The company tows would normally take as many as 40 barges up and down the Mississippi in blocks several barges wide and long. Mark Knoy, the company’s chief executive, said “not only are we carrying half as many barges, the barges are loaded to two-thirds of their capacity.”

Below St. Louis, the river levels keep dropping, he said, grimly. “There’s no plug at the bottom, and the water just keeps draining out,” he said.

Martin T. Hettel, senior manager for bulk sales at AEP River Operations, a subsidiary of American Electric Power, which operates 3,200 barges, said, “We’ll still move the nation’s freight, it will just take more barges and more towboats.”

If the weather does not improve, the situation could get much worse, said David R. Busse, the chief of the engineering and construction division for the St. Louis district of the corps. If the rains do not come, the river will continue to drop. There will be a precipitous fall of about two feet at St. Louis toward the end of the year, when the reservoirs up the Missouri River, as scheduled every year, stop releasing water into the Mississippi.

“Right now we have a problem, but we’re managing it,” Mr. Busse said. “What happens when they turn it off?”

The American Queen, at least, is making the best of the river’s low levels: it will soon take passengers up into the scenic Cumberland River, which it normally could not do because of bridges that are too low, said Michael Hicks, a spokesman for the company. But this year, he said, “Because the water is so low, we’re able to go under the bridges.”
520 2012-08-20 Victor Poor, a largely self-taught computer engineer who played an early role in the development of one of Intel’s first commercial microprocessors, died on Friday in Palm Bay, Fla. He was 79.

The cause was pancreatic cancer, his daughter Noreen Poor said.

While working in San Antonio as an engineer at the Computer Terminal Corporation — later renamed the Datapoint Corporation — in 1969, Mr. Poor approached Intel, then a tiny Silicon Valley chip maker, with a proposal to build a processor for a programmable terminal that Computer Terminal was planning to build.

An Intel engineer, Stanley Mazor, met with Mr. Poor and outlined three approaches to building the processor, including one in which all the circuitry would be on a single chip. At the time, Intel had already begun designing a simpler microprocessor, later known as the 4004, for a Japanese calculator company.

With financing from Computer Terminal, Intel began building a second microprocessor called the 8008. It would lead later to the 8088 family of microprocessors, which was adopted in 1981 by I.B.M. and which helped Intel dominate the microprocessor business.

The 8008 chip, however, was not finished in time to meet Computer Terminal’s deadline, and the company ultimately built the processor for its 2200 terminal from multiple chips.

Several years later, Mr. Poor was a member of a small group of engineers who conceived of a computer network called Arcnet, which became a popular way of linking personal computers to share data.
521 2012-08-20 BOSTON — Mitt Romney read Scripture from his iPad as he juggled his 2-year-old grandson on his lap.

He made sure to accept a small piece of white bread and cup of water, representing the flesh and blood of Jesus, from a member of the clergy who looked like he was about to accidentally pass him by.

And with a knowing nod, he encouraged his wife, Ann, to leave the pew and join the women’s choir in a rendition of “Because I Have Been Given Much.” (She did.)

On one level, it was a typical Sunday morning for Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee and a devoted churchgoer. But on another level, his Sunday observance was an extraordinary moment for a candidate who zealously protects his privacy and rarely talks about his Mormon faith.

On Sunday, for the first time since Mr. Romney became a candidate for president, his aides invited members of the news media to accompany him to church services near his lake house in Wolfeboro, N.H., providing the public with a look into one of the most intimate corners of his life and into the rituals of a religion that is frequently misunderstood.

After a year of studiously avoiding all but the most oblique references to Mr. Romney’s faith on the campaign trail, his advisers said they believe it is time for him to publicly embrace it. They reason that his religious devotion, as well as his leadership within the church, convey qualities that voters will warm to — and outweigh any squeamishness among those who are unfamiliar with or suspicious of Mormonism.
522 2012-08-20 But Mr. Bloomberg has vowed to veto the legislation, saying a key element of the bill would be costly and irrelevant to resolving construction-related complaints at what city housing officials say are a relatively small number of projects. The City Council will almost certainly override the veto.

Bloomberg administration officials say they support disclosing information about the builders and construction-related complaints and have already started a series of contractor reviews. But they say the construction unions have pushed to require a wealth of unnecessary information on workers’ wages.

Most if not all of the work done on subsidized housing is performed by nonunion companies. The unions, which once dominated work in New York, have recently taken on the affordable housing industry.

“The wage requirements only add a layer of red tape,” said Mathew M. Wambua, the city’s housing commissioner. “It’s an additional cost for us and for the developers that will ultimately cost the taxpayer.”

The New York State Association for Affordable Housing, a developers’ trade group, estimates that it would cost developers $40 million to carry out the wage reporting requirements, and the city’s housing officials contend that it would cost the agency $2.5 million, numbers that supporters of the bill dispute.

City officials say labor costs for union contractors are generally 30 percent higher and would result in fewer housing units being built.

But Robert Bonanza, business manager for the Mason Tenders District Council, said there was a connection between what he contended were “systemic” construction problems and nonunion outfits that paid lower wages and failed to train workers adequately.

“We all want an affordable housing program that provides quality, safe housing for New Yorkers at an affordable cost,” Mr. Bonanza said. “However, workers have been exploited and residents have been left with shoddy, dangerous homes.”

The mayor’s housing program calls for the construction or preservation of 165,000 apartments for low-, median- and middle-income New Yorkers by the time he leaves office. It is well regarded by advocates in the field. A vast majority of the apartments are rentals, which, Mr. Wambua said, have been created without major construction issues.

But there have been problems with 598, or 11 percent, of the 5,214 for-sale apartments for moderate-income households sponsored by the agency at 135 separate projects, according to a spokesman for Housing Preservation and Development, Eric Bederman. More than three-quarters of the problems are at five projects, Mr. Bederman said, including the Marcy Development, where Ms. Estrella and Mr. Skinner live with their 5-year-old son.

But supporters of the bill say it is unclear how widespread the problems are. “I don’t know if it’s a million New Yorkers who are affected, or a hundred,” said the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who has vowed to override the mayor’s veto. “But neither does H.P.D.”

Ms. Quinn said many New Yorkers had called her office seeking help. “The home they scrimped and saved to buy turned into a lemon,” she said. “That shouldn’t happen to anybody. But when it does, through a taxpayer-subsidized program, it’s a complete slap in the face and the opposite of what we’re trying to do with incredibly scarce taxpayer dollars.”

Ms. Estrella’s house was part of the city’s program for first-time homebuyers earning $38,700 to $75,000 a year, with $14,900 required as a down payment on a house whose average price is about $300,000. Each house comes with one or two rental apartments, which help the owners pay their mortgage.

Recently, several of Ms. Estrella’s neighbors described similar construction problems with their houses and frustration with the inability to obtain building plans. In response to their complaints, the developer usually sends a “handyman,” they said, rather than a qualified plumber or electrician.

The developer, Thomas J. Metallo, president of Great American Construction, which built the 31 Marcy row houses, referred questions to the city’s housing agency. But a spokesman for the company later issued a statement saying the company “stands behind the quality of its homes.”

“In many cases,” the statement said, “Great American has made repairs above and beyond what is required by warranties, even going so far in many instances as to provide routine maintenance as a courtesy to the homeowners.”

A senior executive from Great American, William B. Clarke, was recently indicted on bribery charges relating to an investigation into a kickback scheme at the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.

At another set of row houses built nearby on Lexington Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Anita E. Clark, a longtime administrator at the local police precinct station house, has had to contend with a rickety back deck, a leaky roof and sewage backing up into her bathroom since she moved into her house in 2008. Unable to get the problems fixed, Ms. Clark said, she contacted a union organizer from the Mason Tenders who was working with homeowners at troubled city-sponsored projects.

This year, she was featured on “George to the Rescue,” a television show on NBC New York that performs makeovers of troubled houses. Two designers and dozens of union officials renovated parts of her house, as they pointed out shoddy workmanship. But Ms. Clark says she still faces problems with her boiler and roof.

Ms. Clark favors the bill requiring the city to publish information about housing contractors. “Hopefully,” she said, “it will make them step up to the plate and get it done.”
523 2012-08-20 But top German officials signaled that Greece could face opposition in its bid for concessions. Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, expressed reluctance to grant more aid to Greece.

“It is not responsible to throw money into a bottomless pit,” Mr. Schäuble said in Berlin on Saturday, Reuters reported. “We cannot create yet another new program.”

Volker Kauder, a top official of Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrat party, echoed his concerns. Mr. Kauder told the magazine Der Spiegel that German lawmakers were unwilling to give Greece more time to meet commitments, or to ease the terms.

“Sooner or later,” said Mr. Kauder, the leader of the Christian Democrat delegation in Parliament, the Greeks “must answer the question: should we maybe try a little harder, or should we leave the euro?”

After a brief quiet period in recent weeks as most political leaders went on vacation, the euro zone faces several crucial events that could determine whether the common currency survives.

This week, there will be meetings of top leaders with the objective of overcoming German reluctance to aid Greece and other debt-ridden countries like Spain. On Monday, Dimitris Avramopoulos, the Greek foreign minister, will meet his counterpart in Berlin, Guido Westerwelle. Mr. Hollande will visit Ms. Merkel in Berlin on Thursday, and is likely to urge her to allow concessions for Greece.

German officials have a history of talking tough before such meetings as a negotiating tactic, and in practice have often been more flexible than their rhetoric implies. Despite regular pronouncements that the euro zone could survive Greece’s exit, political leaders in Berlin and elsewhere are unlikely to want to take such an enormous risk.

Last week, Ms. Merkel sounded relatively conciliatory. “European heads of government also feel a duty and have a duty to do everything possible to preserve the common currency,” she said during a visit to Canada.

In contrast to many others in her own party, Ms. Merkel suggested she is open to aggressive bond-buying by the European Union rescue fund and the European Central Bank, in order to control borrowing costs for countries like Spain and Italy. If markets demand interest rates that are too high, Spain and Italy might have trouble refinancing their debt and eventually be forced to default.

European stock markets have risen in recent weeks, amid expectations that the central bank and European governments were becoming more willing to attack the debt crisis aggressively.

Financial markets remain focused on how the central bank might actually go about intervening in government bond markets. Mario Draghi, the president of the central bank, said this month that the bank was willing to take action in bond markets but gave little detail about what strategy it would use to try to tame the market. The bank’s governing council will hold its next monetary policy meeting on Sept. 6.

Adding to the tension, Germany’s constitutional court is scheduled to rule Sept. 12 on whether the government acted lawfully when it committed to the European Union rescue fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism. The court is not expected to block Germany’s participation, but could impose conditions that make European decision-making more cumbersome than it already is.

Spain’s troubled banking system is another unresolved problem. European leaders have approved 100 billion euros (about $123 billion) to rebuild the reserves of Spanish banks. But Spanish leaders have not yet formally requested the money, and it is unclear how the funds will be disbursed. Some economists fear that a string of bank failures could further undermine the European economy, and make it extremely difficult for the common currency to survive.
524 2012-08-20 Although Apple sued Samsung, the outcome of the case has broader implications for other companies that create devices based on Google’s Android operating system, along with Google itself.

Apple wants an order permanently barring Samsung, the largest maker of Android smartphones, from selling products in the United States that violate its patents. A legal victory against Samsung could give Apple extra ammunition in lawsuits it has filed against other Android makers.

Apple is facing a major challenge from Android in the smartphone market, where Google’s operating system powered 64.1 percent of the smartphones shipped worldwide during the second quarter this year, according to Gartner. The iPhone’s share was 18.8 percent.

As part of the case, Apple has accused Samsung of copying patented features in the iPhone and iPad — like the rectangular shape and rounded edges of the iPad’s case and the bounce-back effect when an iPhone user tries to scroll beyond the end of a list or Web page.

Apple presented copious amounts of evidence during the trial, including internal Samsung documents and e-mails, to bolster its argument that Samsung had imitated its products. At the least, the evidence showed the galvanizing effect that the iPhone had on Samsung.

The iPhone set off a “crisis of design” at Samsung, J. K. Shin, Samsung’s president of mobile communications, said in 2010, according to an internal memo. It also quoted him as saying that the difference in the experience of using the iPhone and Samsung phones was akin to “that of Heaven and Earth.”

Apple presented a 132-page internal Samsung strategy document from 2010, in which the company conducted detailed side-by-side comparisons of the iPhone interface with that of a Samsung phone. In one e-mail, a Samsung manager passed on to colleagues criticisms from Google saying a Samsung phone was “too similar to Apple.”

“My impressionistic sense is that Samsung has been on the defensive for most of the trial,” said Mark A. Lemley, a law professor at Stanford.

Rather than mount a full-throated effort to undermine Apple’s claims of imitation, Samsung’s lawyers in the trial argued that many of Apple’s patents were invalid because of earlier technologies that either looked or operated similarly to Apple’s products.

As the trial was winding down last week, Samsung’s legal team also argued that the method Apple used to come up with its figure of $2.5 billion in damages was flawed, inflating the number.

Simply being inspired by Apple’s products is not illegal, said Jorge Contreras, an associate professor of law at American University. He says that Apple’s claims of Samsung infringement on its design patents, a class of inventions related to the exterior look of the iPhone and iPad, are weaker than its arguments for its “utility patents” in the case, which protect various software functions.

Mr. Contreras predicts a “mixed result” in the case, with Apple winning on some of its claims, losing on others and getting nowhere near the amount it is demanding. “Even if Apple wins on a few of its claims, it’s not a market-defeating victory here,” he said.

For now, the only clear victors are the large squads of lawyers who have been busy on the case. More than a dozen members of each side’s legal team have packed the courtroom of Judge Lucy Koh.

Judge Koh has kept the trial on a strict schedule, often venting her frustration at lawyers when she believed they were slowing the case down. On Thursday, she told Bill Lee, one of Apple’s lawyers, that he must be “smoking crack” if he thought Apple could call all the witnesses it wanted to in the remaining hours of the trial. Mr. Lee replied that he was not, in fact, on crack.
525 2012-08-21 Elizabeth Warren sought to link comments made by Representative Todd Akin to the Republican Party's broader agenda on women's issues, and thus, to her opponent in the Massachusetts Senate race, Senator Scott P. Brown....
526 2012-08-21 Up Next in Video
527 2012-08-21 A former bank branch employee recounts an ordinary workday that took an extraordinary detour, inspiring a 1975 crime drama....
528 2012-08-21 An anti-Islam blogger's ads in support of Israel have been reworked by critics in San Francisco and New York....
529 2012-08-21 Could Apple be better off if it loses its current patent lawsuit against Samsung? That is the point raised by a veteran Wall Street computer analyst in a new research report....
530 2012-08-21 The rescue of G.M.A.C. is a case study in how bailouts can linger and profits, when they do come, flow not to the government but to the Warren E. Buffetts of the world....
531 2012-08-21 The specter of runaway inflation has haunted many economists since the 1970s. Even as, by one measure, inflation was at 0 percent for the past two months, some have warned that more action by the Federal Reserve to spur growth would lead to price increases.

But should the Fed overcome fears of inflation in order to help the stagnant economy?
532 2012-08-21 Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin delivered a spirited version of his stump speech attacking President Obama on Medicare and jobs....
533 2012-08-21 Federal prosecutors file new papers in case where Cambodia seeks the return of a 10th century statue now held for possible auction by Sotheby's....
534 2012-08-21 After someone pestered a booker at "The Tonight Show," Phyllis Diller got an audition, which became a crucial moment on her road to stardom....
535 2012-08-21 Yael Farber's adaptation of the Strindberg play sets the story in post-apartheid South Africa....
536 2012-08-21 Mitt Romney echoed an accusation that the Obama administration has spent $90 billion on green energy, but many initiatives were started under President George W. Bush....
537 2012-08-21 A deadline for the Senate candidate Todd Akin in Missouri. | Convention preparations. | Mormonism and the campaign. | A lighter look at life on the campaign trail....
538 2012-08-21 While Missouri, with 10 electoral votes, appears likely to wind up in the Mitt Romney column in November, the Senate race has taken center stage and remains up for grabs....
539 2012-08-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
540 2012-08-21 The United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York has an 8-0 winning record in insider trading cases that have gone to trial under its wide-ranging investigation. Defendants may view that record as a sign that cooperation i...
541 2012-08-21 The Times's daily business show looks at whether Facebook has lost credibility with Wall Street and the remarkable transformation of Apple....
542 2012-08-21 The writer sketches out additional thoughts on the nature of the stuff crowding our homes, after receiving more than 300 comments on his post last week, titled “You Probably Have Too Much Stuff.”...
543 2012-08-21 The Central Park Zoo announced Tuesday that registration is open for its fall and winter educational programming....
544 2012-08-21 Whether Facebook has lost credibility with Wall Street. | The remarkable transformation of Apple....
545 2012-08-21 Whether Facebook has lost credibility with Wall Street. | The remarkable transformation of Apple.
546 2012-08-21 Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive of the commodities trading company Glencore International, played down speculation that the company would pay a higher price for its proposed $30 billion takeover of the mining company Xstrata....
547 2012-08-21 Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission, called the report “mind-boggling” and said it indicated that audit firms had failed to respond to the disclosure of Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. It was that fraud that led Congress to authorize the oversight board to review audits of brokerage firms.

The Peregrine fraud was uncovered after the National Futures Association, a self-regulator, stopped relying on paper copies of bank records in its own inspections. Peregrine had forged such records for years. Its independent auditor, a one-person firm, did not discover the fraud even though bank accounts are supposed to be confirmed.

A significant question for auditors of brokerage firms to evaluate is whether the brokers are subject to consumer protection rules specifying what can be done with customer money, and, if so, whether they are in compliance with the rules. Generally, brokers who do not handle customer cash are not covered by the rule, and auditors of those smaller firms have been pushing to be exempted from inspections by the accounting oversight board when final rules are established.

Of the 23 firms, 14 claimed to be exempt from the rule, but the board said none of the auditors of those 14 smaller firms had gone to the trouble of establishing whether that was actually the case. It added that auditors for two of the nine bigger brokerage firms had failed to verify that the firms maintained special reserve bank accounts that “were designated for the exclusive benefit of customers and that the account agreements contained the required restrictive provisions.”

The accounting oversight board, which was established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act a decade ago, initially was authorized only to review audits of companies that issue securities in the public market. Audit firms that audited only broker dealers were not subject to inspection by the board.

That was changed in 2010 by the Dodd-Frank law, as lawmakers reacted to the Madoff scandal, which was carried out through his brokerage firm. The Madoff enterprise was audited by a tiny firm that was not subject to board inspection. The audit firm’s principal, David G. Friehling, has since pleaded guilty to nine criminal charges, admitting he did not perform adequate audits.

The new report covers work conducted by 10 audit firms, seven of which were previously exempt from board review because they did not review the financial statements of any public companies.

The board said that about 800 accounting firms perform audits of brokerage firms, and that about 500 of those were previously exempt from board inspection. Most of them could continue to escape board oversight if the board decides against reviewing audits of smaller brokerage firms, as many auditors have urged.

One issue with such audits that emerged in the board report was compliance with independence rules. Auditors of nonpublic companies often essentially prepare the books that they then audit, and that is allowed under the rules of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. S.E.C. rules prohibit such practices at public companies or at brokerage firms.

But the board said that auditors of two of the brokerage firms had violated those independence rules by helping in the preparation of the reports that they then audited. “This is of particular concern to the board,” said Jay D. Hanson, a board member, “because we think it is due to a lack of understanding” of the rules. He said that many auditors of small broker dealers had told the board they believed that they were exempt from the S.E.C. independence rules.

Those rules have been around for many years, but there was never before any way to police whether or not they were being obeyed, and it now appears that in many cases they were not.

Other findings of the report included:

¶ Auditors failed to adequately test whether seven of the 23 firms had sufficient capital.

¶ At 10 firms, auditors did not do enough work to identify and assess transactions with related parties.

¶ At 15 firms, auditors “did not perform sufficient procedures to test the occurrence, accuracy and completeness of revenue.

¶ In six of nine audits where auditors needed to review the values of securities, the auditors failed to do enough work to assure that the valuations were reasonable.

¶ Auditors of seven firms “did not perform sufficient audit procedures to test the accuracy and completeness of certain financial statement disclosures.”

Ms. Franzel said that by the end of next year the board expected to have inspected about 100 audit firms and looked at the audits of 170 brokerage firms. She said information gained from such inspections would be used in considering how a permanent inspection program should be conducted.
548 2012-08-21 Alabama judge ruled in favor of Infosys in a lawsuit filed by the company's American employee, but said threats against employee are deeply troubling....
549 2012-08-21 Amar’e Stoudemire arrived in New York on Monday with nothing but praise for the Hall of Fame center Hakeem Olajuwon after working with him for two weeks at Olajuwon’s ranch in Katy, Tex.

Stoudemire spent his time focused on post play, looking to improve his ability to score in the low post and become a stronger offensive force for the Knicks.

He called the results of his crash course with Olajuwon phenomenal. Knicks fans will have to wait until October’s training camp to see the benefits.

“I’m looking forward to showing my opponents my moves that I’ve been working with Hakeem,” said Stoudemire, who did not go into detail about what Olajuwon showed him. “There are so many moves I picked up from Hakeem.”

Mike Woodson wants to incorporate a more traditional inside-out approach on offense in his first full season as the coach, and to do that most effectively, he needs Stoudemire to be more of a threat in the low post. Woodson, a teammate of Olajuwon’s in Houston, helped put Stoudemire in touch with Olajuwon.

Stoudemire realized he had to elevate and expand his performance after a difficult 2011-12 campaign, on and off the court. He came into camp last year a bit out of shape. His older brother, Hazell, was killed in a car accident in February. He missed time toward the end of the lockout-shortened season with a bulging disk in his back.
550 2012-08-21 DENVER (AP) — The family of a man killed in the Aurora, Colo., movie theater shooting last month said it did not want a United States Merchant Marine Academy professor dismissed for a joke he made about the attack.

Eleven days after the shooting, the professor made the joke to his class after turning down the lights to show a documentary. A son of the victim is said to have been in the class at the academy, in Kings Point, N.Y., on Long Island.

The student’s mother, Melisa Cowden, said in a statement on Monday that there had been enough pain caused by the tragedy and that the family did not want to see the professor, Gregory F. Sullivan, or his family suffer over a “single distasteful remark.”

“We are sad to see the public humiliation by the media and public reprimanding the professor at the U.S.M.M.A. is receiving for his distasteful joke,” she said.

An academy spokeswoman declined to comment because of an investigation into the event currently under way at the academy.

The New York Times reported that Professor Sullivan, a tenured humanities instructor, told students before showing a documentary, “If someone with orange hair appears in the corner of the room, run for the exit,” a reference to the shooting on July 20, in which the attacker had orange hair.
551 2012-08-21 Dr. David Grimes, a clinical professor in obstetrics and gynecology at the University of North Carolina, said, that “to suggest that there’s some biological reason why women couldn’t get pregnant during a rape is absurd.”

Mr. Akin’s statement did have supporters. Bryan Fischer, director of issue analysis for the American Family Association, a conservative Christian group, defended Mr. Akin on his program “Focal Point,” citing “John Willke, who is an M.D. by the way — a lot of these ignoramuses on Twitter are not.”

He read from Dr. Willke’s 1999 article, which described what is “certainly one of the most important reasons why a rape victim rarely gets pregnant, and that’s physical trauma.”

He continued with the article: “To get and stay pregnant a woman’s body must produce a very sophisticated mix of hormones. Hormone production is controlled by a part of the brain that is easily influenced by emotions. There’s no greater emotional trauma that can be experienced by a woman than an assault rape. This can radically upset her possibility of ovulation, fertilization, implantation and even nurturing of a pregnancy.”

Mr. Fischer concluded: “In other words, ladies and gentleman, Todd Akin was exactly right.”

Representative Ron Paul, an obstetrician who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican presidential nomination, was asked about the issue Monday. “Rep. Paul has no comment,” a spokeswoman said by e-mail.

Dr. Willke, 87, asserted yesterday that “way under 1 percent” of rape victims become pregnant, not just because of female biology but because about half of rapists “do not deposit sperm in the vagina.” That, Dr. Willke said, is because many rapists have “a preference for rectal intercourse over vaginal”; experience “premature ejaculation, which is a major factor”; or “some of these guys just plain aren’t fertile.”

But several experts said there is no solid data supporting such contentions. A 1996 study in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, generally considered one of the few peer-reviewed research efforts on this subject, estimated that 5 percent of rapes result in pregnancy.

“Yeah, there are all sorts of hormones, including ones that cause your heart to beat fast when you’re frightened,” said Dr. Greene. But he added, “I’m not aware of any data that says that reduces a woman’s risk of getting pregnant.”

As for the contention that a rape victim’s fallopian tubes tighten, Dr. Grimes, formerly of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said, “That’s nonsense. Everything is working. The tube is very small anyway and sperm are very tiny — they’re excellent swimmers.”
552 2012-08-21 A New York state judge has thrown out a lawsuit filed by Silvercorp Metals against investors who raised questions about potential accounting fraud and misstatements of assets.

Justice Carol Edmead of New York State Supreme Court dismissed a defamation complaint brought by Silvercorp, a China-focused mining company that is based in Vancouver, against the New York City hedge fund Anthion Management, court documents showed on Friday.

The case relates to a 14-page dossier sent anonymously to Canadian securities regulators and some news organizations on Aug. 29 last year. The report outlined Anthion’s argument that Silvercorp was engaged in accounting irregularities that meant the company’s share price was overvalued.

“Considering the letters and postings here as a whole, the court finds they are not actionable,” Justice Edmead said in her decision.

The case was also dismissed against an equity research blog, Alfredlittle.com, and other defendants.

“We are pleased with the court’s decision to dismiss Silvercorp’s complaint, which we maintained was baseless from the outset,” an Anthion representative said in an e-mail statement.
553 2012-08-21 Although Moore is less known than Rice is, she is no stranger to working her way past barriers and asserting herself in male-dominated worlds.

Moore and her husband, Richard Rainwater, declined interview requests through spokesmen Monday. Rainwater Inc., the firm they spearhead, referred questions to Augusta National.

“I am honored to have accepted an invitation to join Augusta National Golf Club,” Moore said in a statement. “Augusta National has always captured my imagination, and is one of the most magically beautiful places in the world, as everyone gets to see during the Masters each April.

“I am fortunate to have many friends who are members at Augusta National, so to be asked to join them as a member represents a very happy and important occasion in my life. Above all, Augusta National and the Masters tournament have always stood for excellence, and that is what is so important to me. I am extremely grateful for this privilege.”

While Moore and her husband have maintained homes across the country, she lives much of the time on the farm in Lake City that has been in her family for generations, spending time on economic development in the area and tending to an extensive botanical garden, friends said.

Rainwater, whom Moore met in the early 1990s, introduced her to golf. (He was also a limited partner in the Texas Rangers with George W. Bush.) But the couple have faced greater challenges out of the office and off the green. Rainwater was told in 2009 that he had a rare brain disease. He and Moore have juggled their family lives and careers with his health care.

Moore had deep roots in sports through her father, who died in 2008. He played football and baseball at Clemson and played center on the 1948 team that defeated Missouri in the Gator Bowl. After graduating a year later, according to Clemson, Moore received offers to pursue baseball and football professionally.

Moore played in the Philadelphia Phillies’ farm system before and after serving in the Army, then returned to Lake City and became a teacher and principal. In 2002, Darla Moore and Rainwater gave $10 million to Clemson’s school of education, which was renamed for her father.

Moore attended the University of South Carolina and has given gifts totaling $70 million, according to a university spokeswoman. In March 1998, the university became among the few to name its business school for a woman.

Moore earned her M.B.A. in international business at George Washington in 1981. She then went to a training program at Chemical Bank (now part of JPMorgan Chase) in the early 1980s, on the cusp of Wall Street’s leveraged buyout heyday.

“There wasn’t a snowball’s chance in hell that a female from the rural Deep South would be invited or embraced by that L.B.O. environment,” Moore said in an interview with the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in 1999. “Historically, no major players in the L.B.O. business were women.”

Moore transitioned into bankruptcy work, she has said, because there were more opportunities then in focusing on distressed assets. The change paid off when the economy seized.

“America blew up, largely as a result of greed, a total lack of perspective,” she said in the Wharton interview, “and the overleveraging of the corporate environment. I had watched all this going on and thought, Keep financing this, boys, because you are just creating business for me.”

Finance “came very naturally to her,” said Karen Fowler, a friend who works with Moore on philanthropic endeavors in Lake City. “I assume a lot of that was because of her upbringing,” she said, citing Moore’s father.

“The extraordinary thing about her is that everything she does, there’s no part of it where she’s trying to get notoriety,” Fowler said. “She’s a leader and has a vision and a passion, but it’s never about her.”

In 1994, Moore joined Rainwater Inc., working alongside her husband. Throughout the decade, she had a career as one of Wall Street’s most powerful and wealthy female executives, known for taking troubled companies and making them profitable.

Moore solidified her drive and gained national notice in the mid-1990s, when, through a controlling stock position in Rainwater, she had T. Boone Pickens removed from Mesa, his oil and gas company. The shake-up helped Moore earn a spot on the cover of Fortune magazine — the first woman featured there.

“Congratulations to Darla and Condoleezza,” Pickens said Monday. “I hope they both accomplish what I did on 11, and that’s get an eagle.”
554 2012-08-21 Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission, called the report “mind-boggling” and said it indicated that audit firms had failed to respond to the disclosure of Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. It was that fraud that led Congress to authorize the oversight board to review audits of brokerage firms.

The Peregrine fraud was uncovered after the National Futures Association, a self-regulator, stopped relying on paper copies of bank records in its own inspections. Peregrine had forged such records for years. Its independent auditor, a one-person firm, did not discover the fraud even though bank accounts are supposed to be confirmed.

A significant question for auditors of brokerage firms to evaluate is whether the brokers are subject to consumer protection rules specifying what can be done with customer money, and, if so, whether they are in compliance with the rules. Generally, brokers who do not handle customer cash are not covered by the rule, and auditors of those smaller firms have been pushing to be exempted from inspections by the accounting oversight board when final rules are established.

Of the 23 firms, 14 claimed to be exempt from the rule, but the board said none of the auditors of those 14 smaller firms had gone to the trouble of establishing whether that was actually the case. It added that auditors for two of the nine bigger brokerage firms had failed to verify that the firms maintained special reserve bank accounts that “were designated for the exclusive benefit of customers and that the account agreements contained the required restrictive provisions.”

The accounting oversight board, which was established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act a decade ago, initially was authorized only to review audits of companies that issue securities in the public market. Audit firms that audited only broker dealers were not subject to inspection by the board.

That was changed in 2010 by the Dodd-Frank law, as lawmakers reacted to the Madoff scandal, which was carried out through his brokerage firm. The Madoff enterprise was audited by a tiny firm that was not subject to board inspection. The audit firm’s principal, David G. Friehling, has since pleaded guilty to nine criminal charges, admitting he did not perform adequate audits.

The new report covers work conducted by 10 audit firms, seven of which were previously exempt from board review because they did not review the financial statements of any public companies.

The board said that about 800 accounting firms perform audits of brokerage firms, and that about 500 of those were previously exempt from board inspection. Most of them could continue to escape board oversight if the board decides against reviewing audits of smaller brokerage firms, as many auditors have urged.

One issue with such audits that emerged in the board report was compliance with independence rules. Auditors of nonpublic companies often essentially prepare the books that they then audit, and that is allowed under the rules of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. S.E.C. rules prohibit such practices at public companies or at brokerage firms.

But the board said that auditors of two of the brokerage firms had violated those independence rules by helping in the preparation of the reports that they then audited. “This is of particular concern to the board,” said Jay D. Hanson, a board member, “because we think it is due to a lack of understanding” of the rules. He said that many auditors of small broker dealers had told the board they believed that they were exempt from the S.E.C. independence rules.

Those rules have been around for many years, but there was never before any way to police whether or not they were being obeyed, and it now appears that in many cases they were not.

Other findings of the report included:

¶ Auditors failed to adequately test whether seven of the 23 firms had sufficient capital.

¶ At 10 firms, auditors did not do enough work to identify and assess transactions with related parties.

¶ At 15 firms, auditors “did not perform sufficient procedures to test the occurrence, accuracy and completeness of revenue.

¶ In six of nine audits where auditors needed to review the values of securities, the auditors failed to do enough work to assure that the valuations were reasonable.

¶ Auditors of seven firms “did not perform sufficient audit procedures to test the accuracy and completeness of certain financial statement disclosures.”

Ms. Franzel said that by the end of next year the board expected to have inspected about 100 audit firms and looked at the audits of 170 brokerage firms. She said information gained from such inspections would be used in considering how a permanent inspection program should be conducted.
555 2012-08-21 Mr. Palmer, who is known as Jay, contended that Infosys used the short-term visas to bring in less-expensive Indian workers for technology projects, undercutting Americans with similar skills. Mr. Palmer continues to hold his job as a project manager at Infosys, but since his charges against the company became public, he says he has not been assigned any work.

Infosys hailed its victory, after a legal battle that began in February 2011 when Mr. Palmer first filed his lawsuit.

“Today’s decision confirms what we have been saying from the beginning: Mr. Palmer’s claims of retaliation were completely unfounded,” Infosys said in a statement. “This is a company built on core values that include leadership by example, integrity and transparency. Those values always have and will continue to shape the way we do business with our clients and, without exception, the way we treat our people.”

Judge Thompson noted that his decision was limited to employment issues and did not touch on Mr. Palmer’s visa accusations. Federal authorities in Texas are conducting a criminal investigation of Infosys’s visa practices. The company has strongly denied that it had any corporate policy of improper use of visas for Indian workers.

The judge noted that Alabama is an “at-will” employment state, meaning that “absent a contract providing otherwise, an employee may be demoted, denied a promotion or otherwise adversely treated for any reason, good or bad, or even for no reason at all.” He did not dispute that Mr. Palmer had received at least five “worrisome” threats after he first reported his concerns through internal whistle-blower channels.

But Judge Thompson found that the impact on Mr. Palmer of the threats, and of being denied bonuses and work assignments, was not “so severe that no reasonable person could be expected to endure it,” as Alabama law requires.

The lawyer for Mr. Palmer, Kenneth J. Mendelsohn, said he was disappointed with the decision, but would not comment further. “It is important for the public to understand that Judge Thompson did not condone Infosys’ conduct,” he said.

An effort to reach an agreement through court-ordered mediation failed in July. Since bringing the suit, Mr. Palmer has struggled with depression that he said resulted from being idle.

Another whistle-blower lawsuit against Infosys was filed this month in California by Satya Dev Tripuraneni, who claimed he quit his job after harassment following his reports of visa abuse. Infosys has rejected his claims.
556 2012-08-21 Low water levels caused the Coast Guard to periodically close an 11-mile section of the Mississippi River to ships this month.

The river, shrunk by the summer’s drought, has fallen to levels near the records set in 1988, putting a squeeze on river navigation that has required barge operators to run fewer barges at a time and to load them more lightly.

The stretch of the river, near Greenville, Miss., has been closed off and on since Aug. 12, said Petty Officer Third Class Ryan Tippets, a spokesman for the Coast Guard based in New Orleans. “We’ve been intermittently allowing vessels to go through,” he said, but a grounding on Friday caused river traffic to back up, and now 40 northbound and 57 southbound vessels are stalled there, he said.

The stretch was reopened on Monday, and the Coast Guard is still letting some downstream-bound vessels through, Petty Officer Tippets said. “They’re trying to get the queue cleared up as quickly as possible,” he said.

Bob Anderson, a spokesman for the Mississippi River Commission, said that the section is “a very tricky portion of the river,” and that there have been several groundings over the course of the summer that have stopped river traffic.

The Army Corps of Engineers has been dredging the river to maintain a navigation channel that is 9 feet deep and 300 feet wide. The Coast Guard cutter Greenbrier has also been laying buoys to help vessels stay within the navigation channel.
557 2012-08-21 Republicans are frantically trying to get Representative Todd Akin to drop out of the race in after his remark about abortion and rape, but not because it was offensive and ignorant. They’re afraid he might lose and cost them a chance at a Senate majority next year. He would surely be replaced by a Republican who sounds more reasonable but holds similarly extreme views on abortion, , gay rights and the role of government because those are the kinds of candidates the party nominates these days in state after state.

Like many Republicans, including the vice presidential candidate, , Mr. Akin opposes abortion even when a woman has been raped. But, in an interview that was aired on Sunday, Mr. Akin went further and decided to explain his position by saying that rarely results from rape because “if it’s a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down.”

His comments betray more than a remarkable unfamiliarity with the human reproductive system. They expose a widely held belief among many fierce abortion opponents that a rape exception will be abused by women whose rapes were not “legitimate.” This came up last year, for example, when the House was debating a stringent abortion restriction and Republicans objected to a rape exception. State Representative Eric Turner said the exception was a “giant loophole” that could be abused by a woman who falsely claimed she had been raped.

The principal difference between Mr. Akin and most other Republican candidates is that they would be more decorous in inventing reasons to strip women of their abortion rights. One of the two candidates Mr. Akin defeated in the Republican primary last week supported the overturn of Roe v. Wade; the other supported a constitutional amendment saying life begins at conception.

All three positions are outside the mainstream of American opinion, but they are pretty much in the dead center of Republican thinking. Mr. Ryan has said he doesn’t believe in a rape exception when outlawing abortion, and he worked with Mr. Akin in the House in trying to narrow the definition of rape so would pay for fewer abortions of poor women. says he supports a rape exception, but many of the politicians he has invited to speak at next week’s Republican convention disagree with him.

As several recent Republican primaries demonstrated, the party continues to nominate candidates who create increasingly ludicrous definitions of “far right.” , who won the Senate primary in and is all but certain to be elected, favors the closure of the Departments of Energy, Commerce and Education, along with the and, naturally, the I.R.S. He says he is very worried that the United Nations is trying to ban golf courses and paved roads.

Ted Yoho, who won a Congressional primary in northern , wants to abolish the income and replace it with a sales tax, believes life begins at conception and considers gun ownership a “birthright.”
558 2012-08-21 MOSCOW — The Russian authorities said Monday that they were still searching for other members of the band called Pussy Riot, indicating that the government was unmoved by international criticism of the two-year prison sentences imposed on three young women in the band who had performed an anti-Putin “punk prayer” in Moscow’s main Orthodox cathedral.

In announcing the prison sentences for the three women on Friday, the judge in the case, Marina Syrova, noted that there had also been unidentified participants in the February stunt in the Cathedral of Christ the Savior.

Many Western governments, including the United States, criticized the guilty verdict and two-year sentences as evidence of Russia’s increasing repression of dissenting political speech.

In a sign of the continuing worldwide reverberations of the case, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, addressed the response by foreign critics while on a visit to Finland on Monday, saying there was no need to “go into hysterics” over the verdict. He insisted that Judge Syrova had reached her own decision, without influence from President Vladimir V. Putin, other Kremlin officials or the Russian Orthodox Church.

“I will remind those who try to present the case as though our court did not make its decision independently that the day before the verdict the Russian president spoke in favor of showing leniency to the girls, and the Russian Orthodox Church took a similar position,” Mr. Lavrov said.
559 2012-08-21 Mario Draghi, the president of the central bank, said this month that the bank was prepared to buy bonds more aggressively than it had in the past to maintain its influence over interest rates. But the intervention he described sounded more restrained than the one implied by Der Spiegel.

Mr. Draghi said the bank would buy bonds only if euro zone governments met certain conditions, like keeping promises to get spending under control and improve economic performance.

He did not provide specifics about how the bank would seek to contain bond markets, saying that its governing council and staff needed to study how best to go about doing so.

“Many of the details will be worked out by the relevant committees within the E.C.B.,” Mr. Draghi said at a news conference this month.

The E.C.B. must also keep in mind that the Bundesbank, the German central bank, remains opposed to bond purchases. The Bundesbank is still seen by many Germans as the guardian of financial stability, and Mr. Draghi cannot afford to alienate citizens in the largest country in the euro zone.

The Bundesbank reiterated its opposition on Monday, saying any intervention “should be viewed critically.”

It is up to governments to decide whether they want to share the risk for one another’s finances, the Bundesbank said in its monthly report. “Such steps should not be taken via central bank balance sheets,” it said.

On Monday, the E.C.B. also criticized government officials for speculating about its intentions. It did not mention any countries but may have been referring to comments by Luis de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister.

Mr. de Guindos told the Spanish news agency EFE on Saturday that the central bank should not set any limits on its bond-buying.

“As far as recent statements by government officials are concerned, it is also wrong to speculate on the shape of future E.C.B. interventions,” the bank said. “Monetary policy is independent and undertaken strictly within the E.C.B. mandate.”

Even before the central bank issued the rebuke, some analysts were skeptical about the Spiegel report, which noted that the bank had not made any final decisions.

European stocks initially rose Monday, but the main indexes slipped after the bank issued its statement effectively denying the report.

While some political leaders would no doubt be happy for the central bank to remove the pressure they face from bond investors, Mr. Draghi is probably concerned that without some coercion, elected officials will not make any progress on economic overhauls.

“The E.C.B. has been extremely vocal on the need for explicit conditionality attached to any future bond-buying program,” Jacques Cailloux, chief European economist at Nomura, wrote in a note to investors Monday. “It is therefore very hard if not impossible to see the E.C.B. embark upon bond-buying on any member country without a clear framework around the help request and conditionality.”

Mr. Cailloux said, however, that the central bank might offer guidance to markets on what borrowing rates it would consider appropriate for countries that met its conditions.

This month, Mr. Draghi said the bank would concentrate on buying shorter-term bonds, an approach that would buy time for governments but still require them to regain credibility with bond markets over the long term.

No government can finance itself solely from one- or two-year bonds. To be able to sell 10-year bonds at reasonable interest rates, a government must convince investors that it has laid the foundation for a decade of fiscal responsibility and solid economic growth.

Since May 2010, the central bank has intervened intermittently in bond markets, spending a total of 212 billion euros, or about $260 billion. But the bank has not bought any government bonds since the beginning of the year. It said Monday that it did not buy any last week, either.
560 2012-08-21 A federal judge dismissed Lance Armstrong’s lawsuit against the United States Anti-Doping Agency on Monday, allowing the agency’s doping case against him to move forward.

Armstrong, a seven-time Tour de France winner, had challenged the agency’s jurisdiction over his case and said that the agency deprived him of due process when it charged him with doping and playing a key role in systematic doping on his teams. He faces the loss of his Tour titles and a lifetime ban from competing in Olympic sports.

Judge Sam Sparks of the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas, in Austin, who acknowledged that the case had “troubling aspects,” said that the United States courts should not be involved because the antidoping agency’s arbitration rules were robust enough to deal with the matter. He also said Armstrong had agreed to be governed by those rules when he signed for his cycling license.

“Federal courts should not interfere with an amateur sports organization’s disciplinary procedures unless the organization shows wanton disregard for its rules, to the immediate and irreparable harm of a plaintiff, where the plaintiff has no other available remedy,” Sparks said in his ruling. “To hold otherwise would be to turn federal judges into referees for a game in which they have no place, and about which they know little.”

Armstrong, who retired from cycling last year, can challenge Sparks’s decision by appealing to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. He also can accept the penalties or challenge them in arbitration. He has until midnight Eastern on Thursday to inform the antidoping agency of his intentions.
561 2012-08-21 In addition to a New York Times poll of more than 1,000 people about the New York Police Department’s stop, question and frisk practices, we took our microphones to the five boroughs to ask residents for their views on how it has affected them and their neighbors. Related Article »
562 2012-08-21 BENINCASA--Katherine A. The Actors Fund extends deepest sympathies to our President and CEO, Joseph P. Benincasa, his wife Nancy and their family on the loss of their beloved daughter Katherine A. Benincasa. Katie was a vibrant and loving person, ...
563 2012-08-21 Radiation, like alcohol, is a double-edged sword. It has indisputable medical advantages: Radiation can reveal hidden problems, from broken bones and lung lesions to heart defects and tumors. And it can be used to treat and sometimes cure certain ...
564 2012-08-21 Of course you know this summer has been just unbearably hot and humid in most of the country. Of course you are tired of hearing people whine about how hard it is to  exercise  in the heat.But there may be a bright side for athletes in this misery...
565 2012-08-21 THE FACTSKnowing your blood type is important if you need a blood transfusion. But can it also tell you something about your risk of heart disease?...
566 2012-08-21 8:53 p.m. | Updated  Apple , a company that nearly filed for bankruptcy just 16 years ago, passed a very different sort of milestone on Monday, when a bump in its share price made it the most highly valued public company ever....
567 2012-08-21 The authorities said Monday that they were searching for other members of the group Pussy Riot, indicating that the government was unmoved by international criticism of the two-year prison sentences imposed on three women who performed a ''punk pr...
568 2012-08-21 LOS ANGELES -  DreamWorks  Animation said on Monday that it had hired 20th Century Fox to distribute its big-budget cartoons, a move that leaves Paramount Pictures with a hole in its pipeline.Like other small movie operations, DreamWorks Animation...
569 2012-08-22 In a letter sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the bank said Nasdaq’s $62 million compensation offer couldn’t make up for botching Facebook’s I.P.O....
570 2012-08-22 Ivan Nova said he felt discomfort for the first time while pitching to the final batter he faced Tuesday....
571 2012-08-22 The top Republican and Democrat on a House Judiciary subcommittee sent a letter to executives at Universal and two other major labels, asking pointed questions about how the proposed merger would affect competition in the music industry....
572 2012-08-22 The traffic enforcement agent, who has been with the Police Department since 2008, is now suspended without pay....
573 2012-08-22 Most of the plates covering the excavation hole on Second Avenue are secured to steel beams below, a transit official said. Not this one....
574 2012-08-22 Missouri residents active in the Republican Party were divided over Representative Todd Akin's decision to continue his campaign for the United States Senate, even as a chorus of party leaders urged him to throw in the towel....
575 2012-08-22 Older men are more likely to father a child with autism or schizophrenia....
576 2012-08-22 Todd Akin's refusal to step aside in the Missouri Senate race has forced gender issues back into the political conversation, just as Mitt Romney was hoping to refocus it on his personal story and the nation's struggling economy....
577 2012-08-22 Mr. Champion, formerly the senior director of Consumer Reports' auto test center, will work to ensure Nissan's competitiveness and build quality....
578 2012-08-22 The government is trying to sell its preferred stock holdings of smaller banks, but the potential losses from the auctions could be in the hundreds of millions of dollars....
579 2012-08-22 The challenges that await Best Buy's new chief executive. | Online dating services go retro. | How the music industry's hit-making process is changing....
580 2012-08-22 The challenges that await Best Buy's new chief executive. | High-tech dating goes retro. | How social media is changing the music industry's hit making process.
581 2012-08-22 Roger Federer will be the top-seeded men’s player at the United States Open. Federer, a five-time Open champion, was ranked No. 1 in the ATP rankings released Monday. Novak Djokovic, the defending champion, is seeded second, and Andy Murray, the Olympic gold medalist, third. With Rafael Nadal out with knee problems, David Ferrer is the No. 4 seed. John Isner will be the highest-seeded American at No. 9.
582 2012-08-22 “I’ve always felt Bill never got the credit about Larry Doby,” said Mrs. Smith, crinkling her nose, as she referred to Mr. Veeck’s decision to sign Doby, an African-American, to play for the Cleveland Indians just months after Jackie Robinson made his debut for the Brooklyn Dodgers.

“He paid $15,000 for him to the Newark Eagles owner,” Mrs. Veeck interjected, referring to the Negro leagues team for which Doby had been playing.

“Effa Manley was her name,” Mrs. Smith said. The Dodgers, she added pointedly, “never paid a dime for Jackie.”

But if history beckons, life still engages them. When the Chicago White Sox, another of Mr. Veeck’s teams, won the World Series in 2005, Mrs. Veeck wrote the current owner, Jerry Reinsdorf, a congratulatory haiku. She was later presented a championship ring at a local restaurant. By her side was Mrs. Smith.

Paul Dickson, the author of a new biography of Mr. Veeck (“Bill Veeck: Baseball’s Greatest Maverick”) said he marveled at how vibrant the two women were during a recent party for his book in downtown Chicago. He said both of them stayed into the night, holding court.

“They were the stars,” he said. “Everyone wanted to be near them.”

Their friendship dates to 1959. As Mrs. Veeck tells the story, both women were in Tampa, Fla., where the White Sox, newly acquired by Mr. Veeck, were holding spring training.

Mrs. Veeck overheard someone suspiciously ask Mrs. Smith about her manicure, wondering where she went to get one in a Southern city like Tampa, and was impressed with the way she deftly swatted the question away. “Hot damn,” Mrs. Veeck recalled thinking, “here is someone I could be friends with.”

Mrs. Smith said, “It was the beginning of something very wonderful.”

She had met her future husband while both were working at The Pittsburgh Courier, an influential African-American newspaper. It was there that Wendell Smith became an insistent voice in urging the eradication of baseball’s color line.

It was Mr. Smith who is credited with recommending Robinson to Dodgers General Manager Branch Rickey, who was looking for someone with the strength to integrate baseball.

And it was Mr. Smith who, with the Dodgers’ consent, roomed with Robinson on the road in his rookie year of 1947 while continuing to write for The Courier.

Mrs. Veeck was working as a press agent for the Ice Capades when she met Bill Veeck in 1949. Two years later, he sold his interest in the Indians and moved to team No. 2, the St. Louis Browns, where he let 3-foot-7 Eddie Gaedel have an at-bat and arranged for fans to hold up placards in the stands so they could vote on in-game strategy.

He was relentlessly improvisational, but Mary Frances was his match, even reconfiguring some offices so they could live at the stadium.

“There wasn’t much Dad did without bouncing it off Mom first,” Mike Veeck, one of their sons, said.

From St. Louis, it was eventually on to Chicago, and the White Sox. The team immediately went to the World Series. Mr. Veeck, in full stride, unveiled a scoreboard that shot off fireworks and introduced uniforms with players’ names on the back.

He also went out of his way to court female fans — distributing orchids, improving restrooms — and it was at Comiskey Park that he created the Hall of Femme, a place where women could gather after a game while waiting for their husbands to finish work.

“Bill realized wives were coming to games and sitting in the car waiting for these guys to drink their beer and write their stories,” Mrs. Veeck said. “That’s when Bill made the room for women. It was fabulous.”

And it was where Mrs. Veeck and Mrs. Smith socialized and grew closer.

By then, Mr. Smith had established himself at The Chicago Herald American, becoming one of the first black sportswriters at a major city newspaper. In 1961, he wrote an article that documented the second-class treatment black major leaguers had to endure in spring training, most notably in Florida, where they ate and slept in separate, and inferior, facilities.

Mr. Veeck was quick to respond, persuading the Biscayne Terrace Hotel to house the entire White Sox team — black and white — for an exhibition game in Miami. Mr. Smith wrote a follow-up article that was headlined: “Sox Break Hotel Color Barrier.”

“I looked at Bill Veeck like he was leading from the inside and Wendell from the outside,” said Billy Williams, an African-American player and Hall of Fame outfielder.

Mr. Veeck ended up selling the White Sox that year, citing health reasons. He went on to try his hand as a racetrack operator, marched in Martin Luther King’s funeral procession in 1968, and then, in 1975, reacquired the White Sox, embarking on one last baseball hurrah. By then, Mr. Smith had died of cancer.

Still resourceful, Mr. Veeck persuaded Harry Caray, then a White Sox broadcaster, to start singing “Take Me Out to the Ball Game.” He also reached out again to Doby and made him baseball’s second African-American manager. But by 1980, Mr. Veeck was gone from baseball again and six years later, he succumbed to cancer, too.

When he was voted into the Hall of Fame, Mrs. Veeck gave the 1991 induction speech. Smith was honored three years later by the Hall for his writing, and Mrs. Smith was there to speak on his behalf.

And when Doby was inducted in 1998, Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Veeck went to Cooperstown, N.Y., for the ceremony. The Veecks had been Doby’s longtime ally; the Smiths had been the godparents of one of his daughters.

“We sashayed up there together,” Mrs. Veeck said.

Last year, the two women moved into the same retirement home, just miles from where Comiskey once stood. Many of their friends are gone, Mrs. Smith noted wistfully. Mrs. Veeck has outlived two of her children. But she and Mrs. Smith have each other, along with memories of the lives they led, the antics and the serious issues, the victories and the disappointments.

“We remember things about each other no one knows, things even we sometimes forget,” Mrs. Smith said. “Some are serious and so many are happy.”

Mrs. Veeck said with a smile: “We had two wonderful men. And if they were still around, they’d say the same about us.”
583 2012-08-22 Pat Wilson, a St. John’s senior from Andover, N.J., shot a seven-under-par 65 to take a one-stroke lead after one round of the Met Open Championship at Plainfield Country Club in Edison, N.J. Three holes in one were made, all on the second hole.
584 2012-08-22 The Humboldt State president, Rollin Richmond, suspended the men’s soccer team for the academic year as a result of a new-recruit hazing ritual involving most of the team’s players. He said the hazing took place Aug. 4 at an off-campus house party where new players, most of them incoming freshmen, were ordered to perform humiliating acts and to consume large amounts of alcohol. ¶ Glasgow Celtic and Dynamo Kiev moved into commanding positions to reach the Champions League group stage after road wins in the first leg of the final round of qualifying. Celtic defeated the Swedish team Helsingborg, 2-0, in its effort to reach Europe’s elite club competition for the first time in four years. Dynamo Kiev rallied to win at Germany’s Borussia Mönchengladbach, 3-1.
585 2012-08-22 Roger Federer will be the top-seeded men’s player at the United States Open. Federer, a five-time Open champion, was ranked No. 1 in the ATP rankings released Monday. Novak Djokovic, the defending champion, is seeded second, and Andy Murray, the Olympic gold medalist, third. With Rafael Nadal out with knee problems, David Ferrer is the No. 4 seed.

John Isner will be the highest-seeded American at No. 9. The draw will be Thursday. The tournament begins Monday.
586 2012-08-22 The United Nations refugee agency called Tuesday for an investigation into the abduction and killing of a human rights advocate in Kingston, Jamaica, on Sunday. The body of Clover Graham, 56, a lawyer who was Jamaica’s honorary liaison for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, was found on Sunday with her throat slashed. The police are working to establish a motive, the deputy police commissioner said, and have made no arrests. Four years ago, Ms. Graham’s son and his girlfriend were found in a field with their throats slashed. Two men were recently convicted of those murders.
587 2012-08-22 Storaker said the police found blood in the couple’s bedroom, the stairway and throughout the house. The amount of blood, he said, and no signs of forced entry, made the police suspicious of Goodman’s version of events.

“There was an awful lot of blood,” Storaker said. “It just didn’t match the fact that he had just fallen down the stairs.”

The police declared the death a homicide and issued a warrant for Goodman’s arrest Aug. 14. According to the fugitive affidavit in New York, Goodman also stabbed her husband with the coffee cup. That detail is not in the criminal complaint or the news release from the district attorney’s office, which said she “allegedly bludgeoned her husband to death with a coffee mug.” Prosecutors asked for $1 million bail.

Storaker said the police searched the home on three separate occasions, looking for specific items the police uncovered as part of their investigation. Goodman, he said, was home each time. Storaker said the police believe they know the motive, but he declined to provide details, citing the continuing investigation.

The police in California, Storaker said, worked with the New York Police Department to find out which hotel the referees were staying in for the Open. The police arrested Goodman around 8 a.m. at the Sheraton hotel at 811 Seventh Ave. in Midtown. The police wanted to keep the arrest low-key, Storaker added, but would have arrested Goodman at the tournament itself if necessary.

Norm Chryst, a retired gold badge chair umpire, said in a telephone interview that he worked several matches with Goodman. He said she worked mostly in the United States and was a regular referee at tournaments in California.

A 1994 story in The Los Angeles Times said Goodman had worked at the United States and Australian Opens for eight years.

“Shock is probably my biggest reaction,” Chryst said.

“She’s a very nice woman. A very nice lady. I only know her to say hi. But I never saw any indication of anything like that.”
588 2012-08-22 On Tuesday, Republicans approved platform language for next week’s nominating convention that calls for a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion with no explicit exceptions for cases of rape or incest. That is a view more restrictive than Mr. Romney’s, who has said that he supports exceptions to allow abortions in cases of rape.

Mr. Ryan’s more conservative views, which have been reflected in votes that would restrict family planning financing overseas, cut off all federal funds to Planned Parenthood and repeal President Obama’s health care law, have come into sharp relief as Mr. Akin struggles for his political life. Mr. Akin and Mr. Ryan each have voted in this Congress for 10 abortion-restricting measures as well as those that limited other family planning services.

Both Mr. Ryan and Mr. Romney have earned praise for their positions from the National Right to Life group and other anti-abortion organizations. “The right-to-life Romney/Ryan ticket is now complete,” wrote Barbara Lyons and Sue Armacost, executive director and legislative director for Wisconsin Right to Life, on the organization’s Web site.

It is a legislative theme Democrats plan to highlight, even as House Republicans try to keep the focus on economic issues.

“All you need to know is that the House Republicans were willing to shut down the government rather than fund Planned Parenthood,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, in an e-mail on Tuesday. “This is in keeping with their efforts — whether it’s Congressman Akin or Chairman Ryan or others — to deny investments in critical women’s health services, weaken the definition of rape, and take away access to preventive care like cervical and breast cancer screenings.”

The House Republican agenda has troubled the half-dozen or so Republican House members whose views differ from those of their colleagues.

“I have time and again spoken out against this to leadership,” said Representative Robert Dold of Illinois, who is in a tough re-election battle. “I’ve tried to talk to them about the issues that we ought to be moving forward on, like out-of-control spending.”

Mr. Dold has voted in favor of half of the abortion restriction measures in this Congress, far fewer than most of his colleagues. “There is no question that there are times when I may disagree with a vote that’s brought to the floor,” he said in an interview, “and the majority of my Republican colleagues, but that is just part of what we deal with every day.”

There have long been lawmakers, like Mr. Akin, whose main legislative agenda centers on the abortion issue. They got a boost after the 2010 election when a large group of conservative members joined them.

Mr. Romney’s views align with that of the Mormon Church, which opposes abortion except in cases of rape and incest or when the life of the woman is in danger. He has said he is personally opposed to abortion; as a Mormon bishop in the 1980s he attempted to talk a congregant out of terminating a pregnancy after doctors advised her to do so because of a potentially lethal blood clot.

But abortion has proved to be a politically volatile topic for Mr. Romney, whose evolving views have disappointed liberals and stirred distrust among conservatives.

In 1994, when he challenged Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Mr. Romney said he would “not force our beliefs on others on that matter.” In 2002, as a candidate for governor, he claimed to support “the substance” of Roe v. Wade. By 2005, though, when he was beginning to consider a presidential run, he had reversed course and described himself as a “pro-life governor in a pro-choice state.” Now, as a presidential candidate, he refers to himself as solidly “pro-life.”

Aides to Mr. Romney declined to say on Tuesday whether he would call on the convention delegates to reconsider their position on abortion.

Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, tried to deflect questions on behalf of Mr. Romney, saying on Fox News that “this is the platform of the Republican Party; it is not the platform of Mitt Romney.”

The idea of outlawing any exceptions for abortion is not new in American political discourse or in legislation, nor are proposals to narrow the definition of rape to distinguish between what some call “forcible rape” and cases involving statutory rape or even some types of date rape. Anti-abortion activists have long been concerned that women would falsely claim to have been raped to gain an exemption to terminate a pregnancy.

Historians and other experts on abortion politics say the no-exceptions idea became part of the debate virtually as soon as Roe v. Wade legalized abortion in 1973. “It has deep roots,” said Donald Critchlow, a historian at Arizona State University who has studied abortion politics. He added, “It’s appealing to segments within the Republican Party to show that you’re pro-life.”

Susan Cohen, director of government affairs for the Guttmacher Institute, a research group in Washington that supports abortion rights, said the no-exceptions idea is “not new and it’s not fringe.”

“It is something that has been part of mainstream anti-abortion movement,” she said. “The record is replete with evidence of the fact that there was this no-exceptions attitude, and of course this makes logical sense from the perspective of people who believe an embryo should have the same legal status as you and I do.”

In the 1992 election, the Republican Party included in its platform language opposing abortion, allowing no exceptions and calling for a constitutional amendment to make abortion illegal. Similar language opposing any exceptions was included in 2000 and 2004, even though George W. Bush also supported outlawing abortion except in cases of rape, incest, or when the life of the woman was in danger.

Four years ago, the Republican Party adopted a platform seeking an unconditional ban on abortion, though its nominee, Senator John McCain, had urged the party in the past to allow certain exceptions. After this year’s abortion plank language was approved with little debate, the chairman of the platform committee, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, praised the committee for “affirming our respect for human life.”
589 2012-08-22 The Syrian Foreign Ministry pledged in late July that its stockpile of chemical weapons would be used only against foreign intervention, and that it would “never, never be used against the Syrian people or civilians during this crisis, under any circumstances.”

Some experts and lawmakers have urged the administration to do more, including prominent members of Congress like Senator John McCain of Arizona, who called last month for increasing intelligence and helping to create “safe zones” in rebel-held areas. The White House faces little real public or political pressure to intervene forcefully, though, even as the bloodshed worsens.

Mr. McCain was a frequent critic of what he regarded as the Obama administration’s overly cautious policy toward Libya, which did lead to military intervention by NATO. But, the officials said, the conflict in Syria has become far more complicated than was the case in Libya. That country’s universally unpopular leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, had neither an effective military nor international backing, and it posed far less risk of ethnic and sectarian strife that could easily spill into Syria’s neighbors, including Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Turkey and Israel.

For now, the legal and diplomatic hurdles to intervention remain insurmountable. In large part because of the intervention in Libya, Russia and China have vowed to block United Nations authorization that could lead to international military involvement, something that European allies from Britain to Turkey insist is a prerequisite for international intervention.

At the Pentagon, commanders continue to draft plans for potential operations — from establishing a “no fly” zone, as in Libya, or sending in special forces to neutralize Syria’s unconventional weapons, should they be used or moved out of the Syrian government’s control. Pentagon officials have indicated that a worst-case scenario would require tens of thousands of soldiers, something that the officials said would inflame an already roiling region.

Mr. Obama did not explicitly threaten a military response in the event of a chemical weapons attack, though he called it a “red line” that would “change my calculus” about the American response so far. Such an attack, the officials said, would also change the thinking of other nations, including Russia, and raise the chances of an international reaction.

The administration’s current policy involves intensifying diplomatic and economic pressure on Mr. Assad’s government through sanctions, offering humanitarian assistance to Syrians inside and outside the country, and providing $25 million in “nonlethal” help to Mr. Assad’s opponents, including more recently to members of the Free Syrian Army. That aid has paid for communication equipment to enable the armed and unarmed opposition to better coordinate their attacks and plans for taking power.

The administration has also ruled out providing arms to the rebels for broadly the same reason: more weapons, the officials say, would probably make the war only worse.

Some rebels, for example, have asked for portable rocket launchers known as Manpads, which experts say could make a huge difference in the fighting by countering government jet and helicopter attacks. But the officials point to the experience of Afghanistan in the 1980s, when the Central Intelligence Agency provided Stinger missiles to the mujahedeen fighting the Soviet Union, only to spend millions trying to track them down after the Soviets left and the opposition groups gave rise to the Taliban.

“The complexity of Syria today makes Afghanistan in 1985 look very simple,” said Milton A. Bearden, who helped oversee the C.I.A.’s clandestine support of Afghan fighters in the 1980s, including the Stingers. “Who is the Syrian opposition? Who would these weapons go to?”

The risk of not doing more is that the United States could lose the support of those hoping to overthrow Mr. Assad — in contrast to Libya’s new leaders, who now view the Americans favorably. There is also a moral argument that the United States and NATO intervened in Libya because it was easy, but not in Syria because it was hard. While some administration officials privately express frustration that the conflict is spiraling ever deeper out of control, they say it only underscores the danger of being drawn into a larger regional or even international conflict.

“The opposition desperately needs weapons if you don’t want this conflict to be a grinder, which is the trajectory now,” Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria expert at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview from Beirut. “If you’re not going to make the choice to intervene, you need to give them the ability to end this conflict themselves.”

The administration maintains it is doing what is feasible to hasten the end of Mr. Assad’s rule, while the Pentagon and State Department plan for the political transition that would follow, addressing such questions as the security of Syria’s chemical arsenal. Other covert operations are also under way, though their extent remains unknown.

“I reject the zero-sum argument,” one official said on Tuesday, “where either you intervene militarily or you’re doing nothing.”
590 2012-08-22 The federal government’s spending on health care consumes 4.8 percent of the nation’s economic production and is expected to eat up 9.2 percent in 25 years, according to estimates from the Congressional Budget Office. A vast majority of economists agree that restoring a sustainable budget will mean either cuts in Medicare and Medicaid or a tax increase on the middle class.

Decisions will have to be made about what services are not worth the cost. Yet so far, our political leaders have failed to acknowledge this to voters, offering instead an illusion that we can resolve the matter without any pain.

Recall the political firestorm in 2009 when the Preventive Services Task Force recommended that women start regular screening for breast cancer at age 50 rather than 40. “This is how rationing begins,” said Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican. “This is when you start getting a bureaucrat between you and your physician.”

The task force is an independent panel of experts financed by the Department of Health and Human Services. Doctors and private insurers usually follow its recommendations. Still, in 2010 — after Mr. Obama’s health reform legislation passed Congress — the department said that insurers should ignore its latest findings and instead go back to its recommendation from 2002: that women start screening at 40.

Does it make sense that older adults in their last year of life consume more than a quarter of Medicare’s expenditures, costing more than six times as much as other beneficiaries? Are there limits to what Medicare should spend on a therapy prolonging someone’s life by a month or two?

It’s a tough political call. In light of the difficulties, our political leaders have preferred to punt on the issue, hoping it doesn’t have to be decided on their watch. Instead, when they talk about health care, they call rationing by some other name.

Rationing is inevitable in a world with finite resources. We do it in this country, too, and it is still one of the least fair and most inefficient rationing systems in the world. You get care if you have the money to pay for it; if not, you probably won’t.

The 30 percent of the population who are the heaviest users of health care account for nearly 89 percent of health care expenditures, according to a government study. But high-income Americans are more likely to see a doctor when they are sick, according to a study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. And the disparity between rich and poor is much higher than in other developed countries.

Meanwhile, tens of millions of Americans — those whose employers don’t provide health insurance, who are too poor to pay for it themselves and yet are too rich to use Medicaid — get the least health care of all.

A study of hospital emergency rooms in Wisconsin found that victims of severe traffic accidents without health insurance got 20 percent less care. Hospitals spent $3,300 more on average for each victim who was insured. They kept the insured 9.2 days, on average, and the uninsured just 6.4 days. Unsurprisingly, the uninsured were 40 percent more likely to die from their injuries.

Every health care proposal from the right and the left includes some form of implicit rationing device. Mr. Ryan’s plan, on the Republican side, would keep spending on Medicare under 4.75 percent of the nation’s output until 2050 by giving older adults born after 1958 a dollop of money to buy their own insurance, forcing many to choose cheaper plans or fewer procedures.

The president’s health care reform encourages rationing, too, by levying a tax on “Cadillac” insurance plans, and in turn pushing employers to seek cheaper options and lower costs. It creates an advisory board to cut costs from Medicare if spending rises above a set rate. And it finances an institute to evaluate which therapies are most clinically effective. Careful to avoid political blowback, the president’s plan forbids Medicare to base its reimbursement decisions on the institute’s findings.

But neither initiative seems likely to solve our health care financing squeeze over the long term. The cuts proposed by Mr. Ryan — shifting the risk of health care inflation onto the shoulders of older adults — are certainly drastic. They also seem politically unfeasible. Under Mr. Ryan’s most recent proposals, in 2030 Medicare would spend $2,200 less in today’s money on each new enrollee than under the most likely outcome envisioned by the Congressional Budget Office based on current policies. By 2050, it would pay $8,000 less. Voters seem to think that might be too drastic a cut.

The president’s plan was more about offering health insurance to all, to end our Dickensian system of rationing by income, than long-term cost control. Savings mandated by the Affordable Care Act over the next 10 years will be difficult to maintain beyond that.

It puts a lot of faith on eliminating waste, with potentially large savings. David Cutler, a health economist at Harvard, argues that a third of our health care dollars go to therapies that do not improve our health. A lot of that waste could be slashed simply by no longer paying providers a fee for each service, whether we need it or not, and paying them instead to keep us healthy.

Going after waste seems sensible in a health care system that costs more than almost any other in the developed world, yet delivers lower-quality care. But savings from waste tend to be hard to achieve. Even with the Affordable Care Act in place, federal health spending will eat up almost twice as much of this nation’s economic product in 2037 as it does today, according to the budget office.

While it is reasonable for politicians to shy away from rationing — especially when voters believe no expense should be spared to save a human life — if the experience of other countries serves as precedent, they will probably get there sooner or later. In Britain, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence determines what therapies will be covered by the National Health Service. It generally recommends against paying for a therapy that costs more than $31,000 to $47,000 for each year of life gained, adjusted for quality.

Putting a value on life, as it were, is controversial. The National Institute in Britain has denied or limited coverage of expensive drugs for ailments like pancreatic cancer, macular degeneration and Alzheimer’s. But in a world of limited budgets, such decisions must be made.

Similar systems exist in many countries, including Australia and New Zealand, where the government decided not to pay for a universal vaccine against pneumococcal disease until its price fell to 25,000 New Zealand dollars (about $20,000) per quality-adjusted life year.

Though this concept may sound foreign, Washington has been putting a price on life since the administration of Ronald Reagan — who determined that regulations should pass through a strict cost-benefit analysis, with values placed on factors like life and health. The Environmental Protection Agency values a life at about $9 million today. In 2009, the Transportation Department used a price tag of about $6 million. If safety improvements on a road were projected to cost more than the value of the lives expected to be saved by the improvement, the project would be deemed too expensive.

This approach has been contentious. And it has had an impact on Americans’ health. In 1991 an appeals court reversed the E.P.A.’s decision to ban asbestos on the ground that it was too costly. The E.P.A., it argued, “would have this court believe that Congress, when it enacted its requirement that the E.P.A. consider the economic impacts of its regulations, thought that spending $200 million to $300 million to save approximately seven lives (approximately $30 million to $40 million per life) over 13 years is reasonable.” The court disagreed.

Medicare could well be forced, one day, to make similar evaluations.
591 2012-08-22 BERLIN — German officials have been meeting here with Israel’s chief Ashkenazi rabbi over the past two days as they seek a way to enshrine some sort of legal protection for Jews and Muslims who circumcise infant boys as a religious rite, officials said Tuesday.

The effort follows a June 26 ruling by a Cologne court that equated the practice with inflicting bodily harm on boys too young to consent. The ruling brought a wave of international criticism as an infringement on religious freedom, and it created legal confusion. Although the court’s ruling was not enforceable outside its jurisdiction, it was disruptive enough that many hospitals in the country, and even in neighboring Austria and Switzerland, recommended that doctors refrain from carrying out circumcisions until legal clarity could be created.

German lawmakers passed a resolution weeks after the court ruling, asking Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government to draft legislation by the fall to ensure that the practice could be carried out safely. “Jewish and Muslim religious life must continue to be possible in Germany,” read the resolution, supported by the leading opposition and governing parties.

The visiting rabbi, Yona Metzger, told reporters on Tuesday that he was confident that a compromise could be found on the issue, but he insisted that mohelim, or those who carry out ritual circumcisions according to the Jewish rite, must be allowed to continue with the practice. He said that proposed compromises that would allow doctors to perform the rite in the presence of mohelim, or the use of anesthesia during the practice, were seen as unacceptable because of the sacred significance of the rite, passed down as a decree from God, for Jews.

“This is our belief, and this is the root of the Jewish soul,” Rabbi Metzger said. “It is a stamp, a seal on the body of a Jew.”
592 2012-08-22 GUANGZHOU, China — China’s solar panel manufacturers, who dominate global sales with a two-thirds market share, are confronting growing trade and financial problems, a Chinese industry official acknowledged Tuesday, shortly before one of the industry’s largest companies, Trina Solar, announced weak results for the second quarter.

The Chinese manufacturers “face challenges of decreasing margins, decreasing exports, lack of capital, protectionism and an external environment that continues to deteriorate,” said the official, Chen Huiqing, the deputy director for solar products at the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products.

The United States Commerce Department has already imposed preliminary antidumping and antisubsidy tariffs on Chinese solar panels totaling more than 33 percent, although the tariffs are subject to a review by the department this fall that could raise, lower or even repeal them. A coalition of solar manufacturers in Europe has asked the European Union to impose antidumping tariffs.

Ms. Chen, who was the lead speaker Tuesday morning at the Guangzhou International Solar Photovoltaic Exhibition here in southeastern China, said that a team of representatives from the Chinese industry is in Brussels to try to persuade European officials not to start a trade investigation into Chinese solar panels in the coming weeks.

Trina Solar, one of the largest Chinese solar manufacturers, announced Tuesday that it had lost $92.1 million on sales of $346.1 million in the second quarter. Price wars in the industry eroded overall revenue, even as the volume, measured by wattage of solar module shipments, continued to increase.
593 2012-08-22 In a statement Tuesday, the company noted that leads from all manufacturers can fail and said the Optim coating is 50 times more resistant to abrasion than silicone, the standard coating. St. Jude also said its product registries are monitoring 11,000 patients with the company’s current generation of leads, and it recently announced that it would follow patients in the registry with Optim-coated leads “indefinitely.”

“St. Jude Medical is committed to continuing to make significant investments in technologies and post-market surveillance studies to further advance our insight into the performance of our leads, and to improve patient safety,” the company said in the statement.

The release of Dr. Hauser’s report has been highly anticipated by doctors and Wall Street analysts.

Last week, the F.D.A. took the unusual step of recommending that patients who had received an earlier generation of St. Jude leads undergo imaging tests to determine if the device is beginning to fail. It also ordered St. Jude Medical to conduct additional studies on both the older generation of leads, called the Riata, and the new generation of Durata leads.

The company has said its studies had shown that the Optim coating protected the leads from abrasion in 99.9 percent of cases.

Dr. Hauser focused on reports that suggested an abrasion problem with both the Durata and another model that also carries the newer coating, the Riata ST Optim. He found 15 such reports for the Riata ST Optim and 37 for the Durata. He also found the abrasion had occurred within four years of being implanted.

“I think it is a red flag,” he said. “I think we need more data. But fundamentally, I’m afraid that this material is not going to perform as advertised.”

Still, Dr. Hauser said, patients who have been implanted with the lead should not be “unduly concerned,” adding that more research is needed. “We do believe that patients with these leads should be evaluated regularly, as recommended by their physicians,” he said in a news release. That mirrors the advice that the F.D.A. gave patients and their doctors last week about the earlier Riata lead.

Implanted heart defibrillators have two major components: a power generator that also monitors the heartbeat, and the lead, which transmits data from the heart and is used to send a high-energy jolt of electricity when a patient develops a potentially fatal heart rhythm. The power generators need to be replaced every five or six years, when the battery runs out. But the industry’s goal has been to make long-lasting leads because removing them can be dangerous.

For months, heart specialists have been scrambling to figure out how to treat an estimated 128,000 patients worldwide who have the Riata implant, which was recalled last November and has been shown to jolt the heart unnecessarily or to fail to work when needed. A study by the company found that wires had protruded from the leads in about 19 percent of cases, and other researchers have reported higher rates.

St. Jude has said that it has found no cases of “externalized conductors,” the problem that has plagued the Riata, in the approximately 278,000 leads with Optim that have been implanted in patients.

Dr. Laurence M. Epstein, a heart device expert at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, questioned the value of Dr. Hauser’s findings because he said the F.D.A. data used in the study was notoriously prone to inaccuracies. Dr. Epstein said he had already stopped using the Durata in all but a handful of specialized cases because the long-term safety was unknown. “I had these concerns anyway,” he said.

Dr. Hauser and St. Jude have clashed before. In April, the company challenged an earlier study by him and unsuccessfully tried to get a medical journal to retract the report.

Dr. Hauser identified three cases that appeared to show the coating on Durata leads had worn away because the wires had pushed through from the inside. In two of the cases, the reports initially described the problems as “inside out” abrasion — a term often used to describe the Riata flaw — but the wording was later changed by St. Jude to describe the problem differently.

Wall Street analysts have anxiously monitored coverage of the Riata for signs that the Durata could be prone to the same failures. St. Jude’s stock fell more than 4 percent Thursday after the F.D.A. announced it was ordering the company to perform additional studies on the safety of the Riata and the Durata, but has largely recovered since then. On Tuesday, shares of St. Jude fell 21 cents, to $37.96.

Bruce Nudell, an analyst for Credit Suisse, said Dr. Hauser’s most recent article didn’t provide any conclusive evidence of flaws with the Durata lead. “I think all the scrutiny that has gone into the Durata over the last six to nine months really has failed to unveil any smoking gun,” he said.

Dr. Hauser noted that the study was limited because the F.D.A. database he used to collect the data was problematic. Information is often missing or incomplete, and the agency relies on doctors or hospitals to report voluntarily problems with medical devices. “Therefore, the number of lead failures in this study likely underestimates the actual number that has occurred,” he wrote in the study.
594 2012-08-22 The woman's body stiffened with each passing second as she sat anxiously in the back row of a 14-person limousine. Suddenly, a man sitting near her was fatally shot - killed by an F.B.I. agent, the culmination of nearly 14 hours of one of the more...
595 2012-08-22 Older adults are understandably anxious about the political sniping over the future financing of  Medicare . That is precisely the intention of the presidential campaigns.Yet the cross-fire over who will cut Medicare by how much sidesteps a critic...
596 2012-08-22 Victor Poor, a largely self-taught computer engineer who played an early role in the development of one of Intel's first commercial microprocessors, died on Friday in Palm Bay, Fla. He was 79.The cause was pancreatic cancer, his daughter Noreen Po...
597 2012-08-22 Among the companies that were bailed out by the federal government during the financial crisis, perhaps the most intractable is proving to be the company formerly known as the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. It's a case study in how bailout...
598 2012-08-23 After the failure of one effort to overhaul part of the mutual fund industry, regulators are considering invoking powers that were granted by the Dodd-Frank law to improve oversight....
599 2012-08-23 Two polls of the Missouri Senate race since Representative Todd Akin's remarks about rape showed a large number of Republicans who were not willing to declare their support for him or Claire McCaskill....
600 2012-08-23 GOP monetary madness....
601 2012-08-23 Eastman Kodak said on Thursday that it was seeking to sell several legacy film units and focus on commercial printing as part of its plan to emerge from bankruptcy protection....
602 2012-08-23 The United States government approved a deal in which the company will spend $3.9 billion to buy underused airwaves owned by Comcast, Time Warner Cable and others....
603 2012-08-23 There were no tickets for this annual camping trip in Virginia for chefs and farmers. Just tents and R.V.'s, a huge bonfire, and a simple pavilion for cooking and gathering....
604 2012-08-23 UBS is the latest financial firm to shoot down Nasdaq's $62 million proposal to compensate customers who lost money during Facebook's bungled initial public offering....
605 2012-08-23 Written by Ido Bernstein, the show explores the culture of aggressive masculinity in contemporary Israel....
606 2012-08-23 While President Obama and Mitt Romney crisscross the nation raising money for their campaigns, in battleground states Republican and Democratic organizations have been laying the groundwork for voter organization and turnout for the November elect...
607 2012-08-23 For the housing market, the beginning of a recovery. | Fed officials push for action to support the economy. | A derailed effort to change money market funds....
608 2012-08-23 For the housing market, the beginning of a recovery. | Fed officials push for action to support the economy. | A derailed effort to change money market funds.
609 2012-08-23 Be it to rest their algorithms or maybe just to ponder their purpose, some New York State government Web sites are available to the public less than 24/7....
610 2012-08-23 The focus of this year's event is jazz drumming....
611 2012-08-23 The real importance of research showing that full-time work means better health for all mothers can too easily get lost in one segment of society defending such a choice....
612 2012-08-23 A pilot airlifts sheep and deer among Hawaii's islands....
613 2012-08-23 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
614 2012-08-23 The Tokyo exchange said it had received tenders totaling 80 percent of the Osaka exchange, above the 67 percent it had sought....
615 2012-08-23 Facebook (and other programs) make it relatively easy to download the photos you have posted to the site over the years....
616 2012-08-23 “It’s a tragedy that serious thoughtful proposals to shore up a major weakness in the financial system and protect American taxpayers from the potential need to bail out this industry can’t even receive public comment and debate,” Ms. Schapiro said in an interview.

Until the financial crisis, money market funds were considered a dull, low-return corner of the markets. But now, most of the nation’s top financial regulators view the sector as one of the most vulnerable parts of the American financial system.

The Federal Reserve and the , which supported Ms. Schapiro’s plan, had been preparing for the possibility that the financial industry might prevail in stopping the S.E.C. regulations. The officials have discussed the possibility of using new powers to move regulation of money market funds to the Federal Reserve, according to people with knowledge of their thinking.

Ms. Schapiro said she would now support efforts by other regulators to force reform on the industry.

“The issue is too important to investors, to our economy and to taxpayers to put our head in the sand and wish it away,” Ms. Schapiro said.

Officials have not used the new powers that were delegated to a body of top regulators, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. It is unclear what they could mandate and how long the process would take.

Ms. Schapiro had the support of one of the S.E.C.’s two Democratic commissioners, Elisse B. Walter. But Mr. Aguilar, who was formerly the general counsel for Invesco, an asset manager that operates money market funds, said on Wednesday that Ms. Schapiro and the S.E.C. staff had not adequately studied the issue before pushing for a vote.

“There’s a lot that we know we don’t know,” said Mr. Aguilar, who had not talked about his views publicly for months. “It would make sense for us to get a handle on those before we do a proposal.”

One of the Republican commissioners who had previously stated his opposition to Ms. Shapiro’s proposal, Daniel M. Gallagher, said on Wednesday that Ms. Schapiro and the S.E.C. staff had been unwilling to consider alternatives that he and others presented.

Ms. Schapiro said that she had seriously considered numerous proposals since the financial crisis, but had eventually decided it was time to act.

“This has been a very thoughtful and deliberative process that’s taken two and a half years,” Ms. Schapiro said. “When regulators identify problems and don’t speak up, you get financial crises. That’s why it was so important to speak up about this issue.”

Regulators view the funds as vulnerable because they act like banks by taking in money and promising to return every dollar that investors put in. Unlike banks, though, they do not have to pay deposit or keep capital buffers to protect against defaults.

The funds, which provide short-term to banks and other borrowers, grew wildly over the last 30 years because they typically offered a higher return than bank accounts and at their peak held $3.8 trillion.

Most investors have used the funds like low-risk bank accounts from which money could be immediately withdrawn.

But in the financial crisis the vulnerability of the funds was laid bare. In September 2008, the suffered losses on $785 million of debt issued by and fell below $1 a share, known as “breaking the buck.”

Investors fled the Reserve Primary Fund and a panic ensued in which they withdrew about $300 billion from money market funds in one week, contributing to the freeze that gripped global markets. The Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department stepped in to bail out the money market fund sector with a guarantee and a special loan facility.

The S.E.C. voted in 2010 to introduce several new rules aimed at making the funds more stable. The most significant change forced fund managers to hold more assets that could be easily sold for cash.

The financial industry has said in recent months that the 2010 rules were successful in improving the safety and soundness of the industry, making further reforms unnecessary.

But Ms. Schapiro and other regulators have frequently said that the 2010 rules were only a first step and that more significant changes are still needed. In late 2011, she presented two reforms that have remained at the center of her efforts since.

One would require the funds to stop pricing their shares at a stable $1 value and instead use a so-called floating net asset value. Critics of the $1 share value have said it leads investors to believe that the value of a fund’s holdings don’t fluctuate and that their money is guaranteed.

The other potential reform would require fund managers to put aside an insurance buffer of capital that could be used to absorb losses. This could also be combined with some restrictions on the amount of money that investors could withdraw.

Ms. Shapiro presented her reforms to the other four S.E.C. commissioners in June and had intended to hold a vote on Aug. 29 on whether to release the proposal for public comment. That would have come before a final vote on the rules.

Major fund managers including Fidelity, Federated and have rallied allies to oppose Ms. Schapiro’s proposal. An industry group, the , said the supporters include 67 regional chambers of commerce, 105 House members and 10 state treasurers.

To counter the lobbying, leaders of the nation’s top financial regulatory agencies voted unanimously in July to support Ms. Schapiro’s ideas. Since then, the heads of several regional Federal Reserve banks have spoken publicly about the need for action.

Advocates of reform have said it is urgently necessary because the measures used to rescue the funds in 2008 were outlawed by the Dodd-Frank law. If the funds faced a run, regulators have said that they would have no way of stopping it.

“Money market funds effectively are operating without a net,” Ms. Schapiro said.

Mr. Aguilar and Mr. Gallagher both said on Wednesday that they were not opposed to changes. But they said they worried that the rules proposed by Ms. Schapiro would cause many investors in the funds to immediately withdraw their money.

Mr. Gallagher said the process of the Federal Reserve assuming oversight of the funds would take too long and was a “false threat.”

A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department said on Wednesday night that the funds still posed a risk to the financial system.

“This was a key source of stress during the financial crisis, and it must be addressed,” she said.
617 2012-08-23 A tariff meant to provide revenue for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority by taxing businesses in the New York City region was struck down as unconstitutional on Wednesday by a State Supreme Court justice in Nassau County.

The authority said that it would appeal the decision and that it was confident it would be overturned, citing the dismissal of four previous challenges to the law.

The tariff, called the metropolitan commuter transportation mobility tax, was passed by the State Legislature in 2009. It required employers to set aside 34 cents for every $100 in payroll costs. The tax is projected to generate about $1.26 billion in revenue this year, said Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

Government officials and business owners in the suburbs opposed the tax, arguing that they were being forced to bankroll an agency from which counties surrounding New York City received little benefit.

The governments of Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties, among others, filed the lawsuit that the justice ruled on, saying the tax was unconstitutional because it appropriated public funds for a local project. According to state law, they also argued, the agency should be self-sustaining.
618 2012-08-23 Top-ranked Victoria Azarenka will be seeded No. 1 at the United States Open, with the 2006 champion Maria Sharapova at No. 3 and three-time winner Serena Williams at No. 4.

The United States Tennis Association announced the seedings Wednesday, strictly following this week’s WTA rankings.

Azarenka is followed by No. 2 Agnieszka Radwanska. The defending Open champion Sam Stosur is seeded seventh, and the three-time winner Kim Clijsters 23rd. Venus Williams, who won the Open in 2000 and 2001, is ranked 47th and is unseeded.

The U.S.T.A. said Tuesday that Roger Federer was seeded No. 1 among the men. The draw is Thursday; plays starts Monday.
619 2012-08-23 “Even one provider who willfully violates the public trust is one provider too many,” said Steven Sanders, the executive director of the group, Agencies for Children’s Therapy Services Inc., which represents more than two dozen preschool special education and “early intervention” contractors. (Its members, however, have not been among those audited by the comptroller’s office this year.)

In a letter to John B. King Jr., the state education commissioner, Mr. Sanders, a onetime chairman of the State Assembly’s Education Committee who has been a lobbyist for several years, proposed requiring that every contractor be audited every two years. Audits now occur many years apart, if at all, and critics say unscrupulous contractors view the minimal risk of penalties as the cost of doing business. Moreover, audits are now usually limited to identifying financial irregularities, but Mr. Sanders said they should also be used to verify that children are receiving the education services they were prescribed, and from qualified teachers and therapists.

“It makes it far more difficult to game the system,” Mr. Sanders said of the proposal in a telephone interview. “If every taxpayer knew they were going to be audited every two years, it would cut down to almost zero the amount of tax cheating.”

Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the State Education Department, would not address Mr. Sanders’s proposal but said the department planned “to discuss the preschool special education audit findings and potential actions that could be taken to address them with the Board of Regents,” which sets education policy for the state.

Mr. Sanders also proposed that contractors be assessed a fee of up to $1,000 for each audit. Though he acknowledged that such audits cost tens of thousands of dollars apiece, he called it an important step. “We’re willing to put some of our own skin on the table,” he said.

Many of the group’s proposals would require state legislation. Until now, city and state education officials have complained that influential lobbyists for contractors, including Mr. Sanders, have blocked reform efforts. But Mr. Sanders said that articles by The Times and audits by the state comptroller’s office had prompted his group to take action, in part to protect the industry’s reputation from further damage.

He also called for requiring contractors to adopt codes of conduct, and then embodying the best of those rules into state regulations with serious penalties for violators, including fines, suspension or debarment.

The group’s other proposals included clarifying the state’s manual for what expenses are reimbursable; setting up a permanent advisory council to provide feedback, ideas and advice to the State Education Department; and shifting the preschool special education system onto the same computer system that the State Health Department has begun using for early intervention for children under 3, so those with special needs can be tracked from birth until kindergarten.

One of the group’s ideas, though, was aimed not at curbing abuse but at achieving a new level of accountability. Mr. Sanders called for requiring “exit evaluations” of students before they leave the preschool special education system for kindergarten at age 5. These evaluations could help gauge the relative effectiveness of the varying methods used to address children’s disabilities.
620 2012-08-23 “It’s a tragedy that serious thoughtful proposals to shore up a major weakness in the financial system and protect American taxpayers from the potential need to bail out this industry can’t even receive public comment and debate,” Ms. Schapiro said in an interview.

Until the financial crisis, money market funds were considered a dull, low-return corner of the markets. But now, most of the nation’s top financial regulators view the sector as one of the most vulnerable parts of the American financial system.

The Federal Reserve and the , which supported Ms. Schapiro’s plan, had been preparing for the possibility that the financial industry might prevail in stopping the S.E.C. regulations. The officials have discussed the possibility of using new powers to move regulation of money market funds to the Federal Reserve, according to people with knowledge of their thinking.

Ms. Schapiro said she would now support efforts by other regulators to force reform on the industry.

“The issue is too important to investors, to our economy and to taxpayers to put our head in the sand and wish it away,” Ms. Schapiro said.

Officials have not used the new powers that were delegated to a body of top regulators, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. It is unclear what they could mandate and how long the process would take.

Ms. Schapiro had the support of one of the S.E.C.’s two Democratic commissioners, Elisse B. Walter. But Mr. Aguilar, who was formerly the general counsel for Invesco, an asset manager that operates money market funds, said on Wednesday that Ms. Schapiro and the S.E.C. staff had not adequately studied the issue before pushing for a vote.

“There’s a lot that we know we don’t know,” said Mr. Aguilar, who had not talked about his views publicly for months. “It would make sense for us to get a handle on those before we do a proposal.”

One of the Republican commissioners who had previously stated his opposition to Ms. Shapiro’s proposal, Daniel M. Gallagher, said on Wednesday that Ms. Schapiro and the S.E.C. staff had been unwilling to consider alternatives that he and others presented.

Ms. Schapiro said that she had seriously considered numerous proposals since the financial crisis, but had eventually decided it was time to act.

“This has been a very thoughtful and deliberative process that’s taken two and a half years,” Ms. Schapiro said. “When regulators identify problems and don’t speak up, you get financial crises. That’s why it was so important to speak up about this issue.”

Regulators view the funds as vulnerable because they act like banks by taking in money and promising to return every dollar that investors put in. Unlike banks, though, they do not have to pay deposit or keep capital buffers to protect against defaults.

The funds, which provide short-term to banks and other borrowers, grew wildly over the last 30 years because they typically offered a higher return than bank accounts and at their peak held $3.8 trillion.

Most investors have used the funds like low-risk bank accounts from which money could be immediately withdrawn.

But in the financial crisis the vulnerability of the funds was laid bare. In September 2008, the suffered losses on $785 million of debt issued by and fell below $1 a share, known as “breaking the buck.”

Investors fled the Reserve Primary Fund and a panic ensued in which they withdrew about $300 billion from money market funds in one week, contributing to the freeze that gripped global markets. The Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department stepped in to bail out the money market fund sector with a guarantee and a special loan facility.

The S.E.C. voted in 2010 to introduce several new rules aimed at making the funds more stable. The most significant change forced fund managers to hold more assets that could be easily sold for cash.

The financial industry has said in recent months that the 2010 rules were successful in improving the safety and soundness of the industry, making further reforms unnecessary.

But Ms. Schapiro and other regulators have frequently said that the 2010 rules were only a first step and that more significant changes are still needed. In late 2011, she presented two reforms that have remained at the center of her efforts since.

One would require the funds to stop pricing their shares at a stable $1 value and instead use a so-called floating net asset value. Critics of the $1 share value have said it leads investors to believe that the value of a fund’s holdings don’t fluctuate and that their money is guaranteed.

The other potential reform would require fund managers to put aside an insurance buffer of capital that could be used to absorb losses. This could also be combined with some restrictions on the amount of money that investors could withdraw.

Ms. Shapiro presented her reforms to the other four S.E.C. commissioners in June and had intended to hold a vote on Aug. 29 on whether to release the proposal for public comment. That would have come before a final vote on the rules.

Major fund managers including Fidelity, Federated and have rallied allies to oppose Ms. Schapiro’s proposal. An industry group, the , said the supporters include 67 regional chambers of commerce, 105 House members and 10 state treasurers.

To counter the lobbying, leaders of the nation’s top financial regulatory agencies voted unanimously in July to support Ms. Schapiro’s ideas. Since then, the heads of several regional Federal Reserve banks have spoken publicly about the need for action.

Advocates of reform have said it is urgently necessary because the measures used to rescue the funds in 2008 were outlawed by the Dodd-Frank law. If the funds faced a run, regulators have said that they would have no way of stopping it.

“Money market funds effectively are operating without a net,” Ms. Schapiro said.

Mr. Aguilar and Mr. Gallagher both said on Wednesday that they were not opposed to changes. But they said they worried that the rules proposed by Ms. Schapiro would cause many investors in the funds to immediately withdraw their money.

Mr. Gallagher said the process of the Federal Reserve assuming oversight of the funds would take too long and was a “false threat.”

A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department said on Wednesday night that the funds still posed a risk to the financial system.

“This was a key source of stress during the financial crisis, and it must be addressed,” she said.
621 2012-08-23 Do hedge fund managers’ hedges grow any greener? Two of the impeccably tended Edens on view this weekend for charity may offer a clue. On Saturday, the Guild Hall of East Hampton will present its seventh annual lecture and garden tour, the Garden as Art, offering access to five private gardens.

At Richard and Lisa Perry’s baronial Beach House, red and yellow ring sculptures by Zhu Jinshi frame panoramic views of Noyack Bay, below, and a ha-ha conceals stalks of a sea of white hydrangeas. Lenore and Adam Sender’s estate in Sag Harbor has a sunken trampoline garden, a pond ringed by a gazebo and pony stables and a menagerie of swans, pigs and chickens, reminiscent of Marie-Antoinette’s Petit Hameau at Versailles.

Jody and Larry Carlson’s Tuscan-inspired spread in Bridgehampton offers a grass labyrinth for meditation and an orchard where local deer can munch on lower shoots. In Michael MacElhenny and David Wine’s tranquil garden in East Hampton, a centuries-old elm provides shade, and a quiet palette of blue, pink and white flowers is designed to bloom from left to right. Jenny and Trey Laird’s Bridgehampton idyll, designed by Deborah Nevins, is a model of simplicity and restraint. A boxwood path runs parallel to perennials that link outdoor rooms and pavilions. Tickets start at $100 for the garden tour, breakfast and a lecture by the landscape architect Edmund Hollander. Information: guildhall.org or (631) 324-0806.
622 2012-08-23 Thirteen senators signed a letter to James R. Clapper Jr. the Director of National Intelligence, expressing concern about a “loophole” in the law that permits the collection of United States data. Related Article »
623 2012-08-23 The research team found that the average child born to a 20-year-old father had 25 random mutations that could be traced to paternal genetic material. The number increased steadily by two mutations a year, reaching 65 mutations for offspring of 40-year-old men.

The average number of mutations coming from the mother’s side was 15, no matter her age, the study found.

“This study provides some of the first solid scientific evidence for a true increase in the condition” of autism, said Dr. Fred R. Volkmar, director of the Child Study Center at the Yale School of Medicine, who was not involved in the research. “It is extremely well done and the sample meticulously characterized.”

The new investigation, led by the Icelandic firm Decode Genetics, analyzed genetic material taken from blood samples of 78 parent-child trios, focusing on families in which parents with no signs of a mental disorder gave birth to a child who developed autism or schizophrenia. This approach allows scientists to isolate brand-new mutations in the genes of the child that were not present in the parents.

Most people have many of these so-called de novo mutations, which occur spontaneously at or near conception, and most of them are harmless. But studies suggest that there are several such changes that can sharply increase the risk for autism and possibly schizophrenia — and the more a child has, the more likely he or she is by chance to have one of these rare, disabling ones.

Some difference between the paternal and maternal side is to be expected. Sperm cells divide every 15 days or so, whereas egg cells are relatively stable, and continual copying inevitably leads to errors, in DNA as in life.

Still, when the researchers removed the effect of paternal age, they found no difference in genetic risk between those who had a diagnosis of autism or schizophrenia and a control group of Icelanders who did not. “It is absolutely stunning that the father’s age accounted for all this added risk, given the possibility of environmental factors and the diversity of the population,” said Dr. Kari Stefansson, the chief executive of Decode and the study’s senior author. “And it’s stunning that so little is contributed by the age of the mother.”

Dr. Stefansson’s co-authors included C. Augustine Kong of Decode, and researchers from the University of Iceland, Aarhus University in and Ltd.

Dr. Stefansson said it made sense that de novo mutations would play a significant role in brain disorders. At least 50 percent of active genes play a role in neural development, so that random glitches are more likely to affect the brain than other organs, which have less exposure.

In the end, these kinds of mutations may account for 20 to 30 percent of cases of autism, and perhaps schizophrenia, some experts said. The remainder is probably a result of inherited genetic predisposition and environmental factors that are the subjects of numerous studies.

Dr. Stefansson and other experts said that an increase in the average age of fathers had most likely led to more cases of autism. Unlike other theories proposed to explain the increase, like , it is backed by evidence that scientists agree is solid.

This by itself hardly explains the overall increase in diagnoses, at least in the . The birthrate of fathers age 40 and older has increased by more than 30 percent since 1980, according to government figures, but the diagnosis rate has jumped tenfold, to 1 in 88 8-year-olds.

And it is not clear whether the rate of schizophrenia diagnosis has increased at all in that time.

Nonetheless, if these study findings hold up and extend to other brain disorders, wrote Alexey S. Kondrashov of the , in an editorial accompanying the study, “then collecting the sperm of young adult men and cold-storing it for later use could be a wise individual decision.”

That very much depends on the individual. “You are going to have guys who look at this and say, ‘Oh no, you mean I have to have all my kids when I’m 20 and stupid?’ ” said Evan E. Eichler, a professor of genome sciences at the in . “Well, of course not. You have to understand that the vast majority of these mutations have no consequences, and that there are tons of guys in their 50s who have healthy children.”
624 2012-08-23 In its report, the budget office sees the economy shrinking at an annual rate of 2.9 percent in the first half of next year and then growing slowly, so that total output would decline by one-half of 1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the fourth quarter of 2013.

Under “an alternative fiscal scenario,” which overrides many of the tax increases and spending cuts, “there would be two million more jobs” next year, Mr. Elmendorf said.

The budget office estimates that under current law federal spending will total $3.56 trillion in the current fiscal year, while the government will collect $2.44 trillion in revenue. The projected deficit is equivalent to 7.3 percent of the economy.

Pervasive effects of the recession and tax cuts can be seen in a remarkable statistic: total federal revenue will be lower this year than in 2007, when the government collected nearly $2.6 trillion. Federal revenue this year will be equivalent to 15.7 percent of the economy, down from 18.5 percent in 2007.

“We are a little surprised by how weak tax revenues are,” Mr. Elmendorf said.

While revenue has declined, federal spending has surged, rising more than 30 percent since 2007, as more people have received help from the government. The budget office said that total federal spending would decline slightly this year, by $40 billion. In part, that reflects a reduction in spending for the wars in and , less spending on unemployment compensation and the winding down of programs to stimulate the economy.

“Defense outlays are expected to decrease by $30 billion (or 4 percent) in 2012, to $669 billion — the first decline since 1998,” the report said. “In contrast, such outlays grew by 1.5 percent in 2011 and by an average of 9 percent annually from 2000 through 2010.”

The budget office said that 2012 would be “the fourth year in a row with a deficit more than $1 trillion.”

“Federal debt held by the public will reach 73 percent of gross domestic product by the end of this fiscal year — the highest level since 1950 and about twice the 36 percent of G.D.P. that it measured at the end of 2007,” Mr. Elmendorf said.

The House speaker, , said the report showed an urgent need for legislation to stop the impending tax increases and the looming cuts in military spending.

“Instead of threatening to drive us off the fiscal cliff and tank our economy in their quest for higher taxes, I would urge President Obama and Congressional Democrats to work with us,” said Mr. Boehner, an Republican.

The White House said Republicans were blocking a solution.

“They’re willing to hold the middle class hostage unless we also give massive new tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires,” said , the president’s press secretary.

If Congress cannot break the impasse on tax and fiscal policy and if current law remains in place, the budget office said, the federal deficit will plunge, to $641 billion in the fiscal year 2013 and to $387 billion in 2014. Revenues would shoot up 20 percent next year, to a total of $2.9 trillion, and then rise a further 10 percent, to $3.2 trillion in 2014, it said.

From the report, it is possible to compare the cost of tax policies favored by Mr. Obama and Congressional Republicans.

Most Republican lawmakers want to extend tax cuts adopted in 2001 and 2003 for all taxpayers, while Mr. Obama would allow the tax cuts to expire for the portion of adjusted gross income exceeding $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for couples.

The budget office and the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that, under the Republican policies, government tax collections would decline by $247 billion next year and a total of $4.5 trillion from 2013 to 2022.

By contrast, the analysts said, under the tax policies proposed by Mr. Obama, government tax collections would decline by $205 billion next year and a total of $3.7 trillion over 10 years.
625 2012-08-23 Rains have already contributed to cholera deaths in the landlocked nations of Mali and Niger as well, health officials said.

Aid workers said the number of cases of the highly contagious disease continued to increase, particularly in Freetown, where most live in slums and children swim in polluted waters. Often, patients arrive at treatment centers in poor condition.

“They come barely conscious because they are severely dehydrated,” said Natasha Reyes Ticzon, a cholera field coordinator for Doctors Without Borders in Freetown. “We’ve had some deaths because they come too late.”

There have been more than 11,600 cholera cases in Sierra Leone since January, at least 216 of them fatal, according to the country’s health minister, Zainab Bangura. More than 1,000 new cases a week are being recorded in Freetown, health officials said.

In Guinea, there have been 80 deaths out of 2,700 cases so far.

“There has been heavy rain throughout the past month, and this is not helping,” said Danicel Mouqué of Doctors Without Borders in Conakry. The houses of cholera patients are being sprayed with chlorine to stem the spread of the disease, Mr. Mouqué said.

In the 14 countries of West and Central Africa there have been 40,799 cholera cases this year, and 846 deaths, with over half the reported cases originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Unicef said those figures were comparable to the regional totals for 2011, when there were more than 105,000 cases and nearly 3,000 deaths in what was considered to be one of the greater region’s worst cholera epidemics.

Whereas last year’s epidemic was focused on the Lake Chad area of Cameroon, Nigeria, Chad and Niger, this year it is concentrated on the coast.

As in Freetown, sanitary conditions in Conakry are poor. “Garbage collection is highly irregular. There are piles of garbage everywhere,” said Dr. Sakoba Keita, the Guinean government official in charge of fighting against diseases. For now, officials are working to contain the epidemic, even while acknowledging that a long-term resolution remains elusive in this impoverished region.

“If your area is flooded with rainwater, and if people are defecating in the open, it will get into the water supply,” said Jane Bevan, a regional sanitation specialist for Unicef. “We know governments have the money for other things. I’m afraid sanitation is never given the priority it deserves.”
626 2012-08-23 Apple and its main supplier, Foxconn, have improved working conditions at Chinese factories that make most of the world’s iPads and iPhones, according to auditors the companies enlisted to monitor the process, but tough tasks still lie ahead.

The Fair Labor Association said local laws would require the companies — which came under fire because of conditions at the plants blamed for a series of suicides in 2010 — to reduce hours by almost a third by 2013 for the hundreds of thousands working in Foxconn plants across southern China.

Foxconn said Wednesday it would continue to cut overtime, aiming for fewer than nine hours a week instead of the current 20, even though that could raise labor costs while making it difficult to attract workers.

“It is a challenge. When we reduce overtime it means we need to hire more people and implement more automation, more investment on robotic engineering. More workers also mean more dormitories and recreational facilities; it takes time,” said Louis Woo, special assistant to the chief executive of Foxconn.

“But I expect more loyalty from workers as a result, and then we can save more costs on recruitment and retainment,” he said. “Yield rates will also improve. Efficiency in terms of productivity, yield gain, retention and lower turnover rates should be able to improve next year.”

At Foxconn’s huge factory in Shenzhen’s Longhua district, six workers interviewed by Reuters said overtime hours had been cut to 48 to 60 hours a month, from some 80 before. In March, the Fair Labor Association — of which Apple is a member — found multiple violations of labor law, including extremely long hours, after starting one of the largest investigations ever conducted of an American company’s operations outside the United States.
627 2012-08-23 The revolution will not be televised ... and neither will United States men's national team away games in regional World Cup qualifying -- unless you are among a small universe of TV viewers who have access to Al-Jazeera Sports Media Network's beI...
628 2012-08-23 This week on the music charts, Taylor Swift's new song set a digital sales record, and the debut album by the rapper 2 Chainz opens at No. 1.   Ms. Swift's latest single, "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together," was released last week and shot t...
629 2012-08-23 McCLURE--Douglas Ketcham of Rye, NY, beloved husband of Ruth Lind McClure, died peacefully at home on August 19th. Known for his warmth and keen sense of humor, he loved all that surrounded him. In addition to his wife of 34 years, he is surived b...
630 2012-08-23 Federal prosecutors seeking to repatriate a  10th century statue to Cambodia  filed court papers Monday accusing Sotheby's of knowing the sculpture "was an important piece of cultural property that had been stolen" from a remote temple complex whe...
631 2012-08-23 A 1,800-pound steel plate that was secured along only one side "opened up like a trapdoor" and sent rocks and other debris flying through the air when explosives were set beneath it this week at the Second Avenue subway excavation site, a transit ...
632 2012-08-23 FreedomPop promises that its Freedom Sleeve for the  iPod  Touch will deliver ''fast and  free Internet  everywhere,'' and that you can ''make phone calls over 4G from your iPod anywhere.''It seems to be a compelling offer, but FreedomPop combines...
633 2012-08-24 Early reactions evaluate the landmark trial between Apple and Samsung: How enormous a win is this? And what could it mean for the tech industry overall?...
634 2012-08-24 The popular Jambox Bluetooth music player is shedding its monochromatic ways. Now it's available in roughly 100 custom color combinations....
635 2012-08-24 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Friday's selection includes a pessimistic forecast for Dell and Hewlett-Packard, the Twitter-Tumblr breakup and a report of using electroenc...
636 2012-08-24 The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday approved a deal that allows Verizon Wireless to purchase a huge swath of spectrum, the radio waves that carry wireless communications, from the country's largest cable providers. Of course, the par...
637 2012-08-24 Gold buggism triumphant....
638 2012-08-24 A new financial tool is aimed at encouraging greater disclosure about greenhouse gas emissions from companies while, hopefully, also pushing investors to build more responsible portfolios....
639 2012-08-24 How do our feelings about risk affect our decisions about how much auto insurance to buy?...
640 2012-08-24 For farmers, drought becomes a way of life. | Americans near retirement suffer big income losses. | James B. Stewart discusses Mitt Romney's foreign tax credit....
641 2012-08-24 Ken Thomas broadcasts tennis matches on the Internet, including qualifying at the United States Open, reviving the lost art of tennis on the radio....
642 2012-08-24 Ross Ramsey, the executive editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column for the Tribune.

Some Texans want to kill property taxes. Some want to create a new one.

Right in the middle of a policy debate over whether to swap property taxes for higher sales taxes, and weeks before a state district court in Austin hears the latest round of challenges to the state’s public school finance system, it’s still possible that lawmakers will get another look at an issue they put to bed years ago: a statewide property tax.

They would have to repeal a constitutional prohibition against it. Voters hate property taxes, and politicians are nothing if not receptive to the whims of voters. The ban went on the ballot in 1982, passed by almost 3 to 1, and that was that.

Except that property taxes are an essential source of money for public schools. There’s no such state tax, but there is most assuredly a local one. The state and its independent school districts are going to court in October —  again —  to debate the financing of the state’s schools. One argument — again — is that the state capped local property taxes and then required so much local spending that districts have to tax at or near the cap. Because the state sets that cap, and because this is a property tax, school districts are arguing — again — that it functions like an unconstitutional state property tax.

It’s like the instructions on a bottle of shampoo: Lather, rinse, repeat.

The school finance lawsuits have a million angles, but this tax raises that key constitutional issue.
643 2012-08-24 For farmers, drought becomes a way of life. | Americans near retirement suffer big income losses. | James B. Stewart discusses Mitt Romney's foreign tax credit.
644 2012-08-24 Bobby Reynolds of the United States will play Sergio Gutiérrez-Ferrol of Spain on Friday for a spot in the United States Open main draw....
645 2012-08-24 For tennis fans and spectators, a fresh and local menu will be served at the United States Open, which starts on Monday and runs until Sept. 9 in Flushing Meadows, Queens....
646 2012-08-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
647 2012-08-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
648 2012-08-24 Complaints from Europe and the United States of unfair subsidies to China's solar panel industry have sparked a trade war. Can state help for such sustainable technology be bad and can solar panels ever be too cheap?...
649 2012-08-24 John Isner, the defending champion, and top-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga had straight-set victories to set up a semifinal match at the Winston-Salem Open in North Carolina. Isner had 21 aces in beating David Goffin, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, and Tsonga eased past sixth-seeded Marcel Granollers, 6-1, 6-2.

In the other quarterfinals, second-seeded Tomas Berdych rallied against Steve Darcis, 4-6, 6-2, 6-0, and seventh-seeded Sam Querrey beat fourth-seeded Alexandr Dolgopolov, 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (7-3).

¶ Caroline Wozniacki fought through an injury to her right knee to beat Dominika Cibulkova, 6-2, 6-1, in the quarterfinals of the New Haven Open. Wozniacki, seeded third, advanced to a semifinal against Maria Kirilenko, who beat Olga Govortsova, 6-1, 6-2.

Petra Kvitova clinched the United States Open Series title with a 6-3, 6-3 victory over Lucie Safarova. Kvitova is eligible for a bonus of up to $1 million, depending on her placement in the United States Open next week. Kvitova will next play fourth-seeded Sara Errani, who beat fifth-seeded Marion Bartoli, 6-4, 6-2.
650 2012-08-24 SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — A South Korean court ruled Friday that Apple and Samsung Electronics both infringed on each other’s patents, and it ordered a partial ban of their products in South Korea.

The Seoul Central District Court ordered Apple to stop selling the iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPad 1 and iPad 2 in South Korea, saying they infringed two of Samsung’s patents. The court also ruled that Samsung infringed one of Apple’s patents and banned sales of the Galaxy S2 and other products in South Korea.

Sales of devices recently released by Samsung and Apple, including the iPhone 4S and the Galaxy S3 smartphones, were not affected.

The court also ordered the two parties to pay monetary compensation to each other. Samsung must pay Apple about $22,000, while Apple must pay its rival about $35,000.

The lawsuit is part of global fight over patents between the two largest smartphone makers. The biggest stakes are in the United States, however, where the two companies are locked in a $2.5 billion legal battle in a federal court in San Jose, Calif.
651 2012-08-24 That claim has renewed relevance as the Levinsons find themselves embroiled in one of baseball’s most recent drug scandals. The Levinsons represent the San Francisco Giants slugger Melky Cabrera, who accepted a 50-game suspension last week.

Cabrera, who tested positive for excessive levels of testosterone this season, dropped an appeal of the suspension after investigators for baseball uncovered evidence that an employee for the Levinsons had hatched a cover-up scheme to deceive an arbitrator about whether Cabrera had used a banned substance.

Officials for Major League Baseball are angered by the attempt to subvert their drug-testing program and have asked the players union, which accredits all agents, to investigate whether the Levinsons played a role.

The employee for the Levinsons, Juan Nunez, has admitted to being behind the plot but said the Levinsons had nothing to do with it.

According to a baseball official, Nunez had an e-mail address at the firm the Levinsons run in Brooklyn.

“The Cabrera situation has heightened interest and concerns about agent involvement in performance-enhancing drugs,” said a person in baseball who is aware of concerns now consuming the commissioner’s office.

The office, the person said, is pushing the union to investigate the matter and is “not convinced that Juan Nunez acted alone.”

In a written statement, the Levinsons denied any connections to performance-enhancing drugs.

“There is absolutely no truth to the allegation that either of us had any involvement in procuring performance-enhancing drugs for Melky Cabrera or any other baseball player,” they said in the statement issued by their lawyer, Howard M. Shapiro, a criminal defense lawyer in Washington.

“Nor did we have knowledge that anyone else was doing so,” the statement said. “We are proud of our 27-year record of representing Major League Baseball players consistent with the highest standards of ethics and integrity.”

The Levinsons, through their lawyer, said Stanton, long retired, would rebut McNamee’s claims, and in an interview made possible by the Levinsons’ lawyer, Stanton did.

Stanton, who was interviewed by federal authorities as part of the Clemens investigation and has admitted McNamee provided him with performance-enhancing drugs, said he was not sure if the authorities had asked him about whether the Levinsons had provided him with banned substances.

“ACES didn’t have anything to do with it,” Stanton said, referring to the agency run by the Levinsons.

Baseball officials are particularly sensitive about the scheme to help Cabrera because it comes just five months after the Milwaukee Brewers slugger Ryan Braun had his positive test for steroids thrown out by an arbitrator, who ruled Braun’s urine sample had been improperly handled.

Until the Braun suspension was thrown out, Major League Baseball had a perfect record in suspending players for positive drug tests. Baseball officials are concerned that in the aftermath of the Braun case, agents could feel more emboldened to try to take their cases to arbitration.

A spokesman for the baseball players union declined to comment.

For nearly 30 years, the Levinsons have represented some of the game’s most high-profile players, including David Wright, Scott Rolen, Jorge Posada and Todd Hundley, earning them tens of millions of dollars in contract money from teams and endorsements from companies. Several of the Levinsons’ clients — like Hundley — have been tied to performance-enhancing drugs.

The Levinsons, who have an office in Brooklyn and grew up on Staten Island, were described in a November 2007 article in The Staten Island Advance as the antithesis of the high-profile baseball agent Scott Boras, who is often quoted in the news media.

“We do everything we can to stay out of the papers,” Seth Levinson was quoted as saying.

Just days before Mitchell’s report was released in 2007, Rusty Hardin, Roger Clemens’s criminal defense lawyer, sent two of his investigators to New York to interview McNamee at his house. Hardin had become aware that McNamee might have provided Mitchell with information about Clemens’s suspected drug use.

According to Hardin, McNamee told Hardin’s investigators what he had told Mitchell about Clemens’s use of steroids, and the use of drugs by other players. It was at that interview, Hardin said, that McNamee said Stanton’s agents had played a role in providing Stanton with performance-enhancing drugs.

Hardin said he reached out to the Levinsons to see if they would testify at the trial to impeach McNamee’s credibility. Hardin has repeatedly asserted, most recently at the trial, that McNamee was a serial fabricator.

Hardin said that he spoke to the Levinsons and their lawyer and twice tried to schedule a meeting, but that the Levinsons ultimately declined to be interviewed, saying they wanted to stay out of the affair.

Shapiro, the lawyer for the Levinsons, declined to comment in response to questions about Clemens’s lawyers’ reaching out to the agents.

Still, the issue of how Stanton received his performance-enhancing drugs quietly came to light as part of a discussion about McNamee’s credibility before the federal judge handling the trial.

“The same with some other people, people would say that Mr. McNamee lied about certain other things about them,” Hardin said, according to a court transcript from the trial.

“For instance, Mr. McNamee has always said that in the case of Mr. Stanton,” the transcript reads, “the steroids were delivered” to Mr. Stanton’s agent, a lawyer in New York.

Few members of the media made the connection to the Levinsons, except for The New York Daily News, which tweeted a version of the exchange.

Clemens was acquitted on all charges.
652 2012-08-24 Chinese state-controlled media acknowledged on Thursday that the country was actively developing mobile Dongfeng-41 intercontinental ballistic missiles, and seemed to hint that they might have multiple warheads. But a Chinese military expert denied to The Global Times, a newspaper controlled by the Communist Party, that the missile had already been tested last month. Multiple re-entry vehicles on a ballistic missile, each of which can carry a nuclear warhead, make it much harder for missile defense systems to stop an attack.
653 2012-08-24 That process has already been challenged successfully in the State Supreme Court. “No notice is given to affected parties,” Justice Don R. Willett wrote in that case, Texas Rice Land Partners v. Denbury Green. “No hearing is held, no evidence is presented, no investigation is conducted.”

In the Denbury case, the court unanimously refused the pipeline company’s condemnation claim. “Private property is constitutionally protected,” Justice Willett wrote, “and a private enterprise cannot acquire condemnation power merely by checking boxes on a one-page form.”

The court recommended a set of uniform standards for common carriers, and a body to enforce it.

But because no such body exists, Ms. Crawford’s case ended up in Judge Harris’s small courtroom. The arguments were technical. TransCanada argued that it derived its power of eminent domain from the Railroad Commission. Wendi Hammond, Ms. Crawford’s lawyer, asserted that based on a 2008 letter, the Railroad Commission said TransCanada’s operations “appear to be interstate and thereby under federal control.”

“When our own state agency says they don’t have jurisdiction,” Ms. Hammond said, “and a statute requires that a pipeline be subject to the agency’s jurisdiction, the court should be ruling in favor of the citizen and denying the corporation’s request.”

TransCanada welcomed the judge’s decision. “This ruling reaffirms that TransCanada has — and continues — to follow all state and federal laws and regulations as we move forward with the construction of the Gulf Coast Project,” said Grady Semmens, a TransCanada spokesman.In court, Ms. Hammond’s argument seemed to exasperate a TransCanada lawyer, James Freeman. He argued that under Ms. Hammond’s interpretation, “you wouldn’t be able to move interstate oil in Texas pipelines at all.”

Ms. Hammond disagreed. “We’re saying TransCanada is welcome to carry whatever they want,” she said. “They just can’t seize Ms. Crawford’s land to do it.”

Ms. Hammond was new to the case, having represented Ms. Crawford for just 11 days. Previously, Ms. Crawford’s counsel had argued that TransCanada could not be a common carrier because it carried diluted bitumen, not crude oil, because the Keystone pipeline had not yet been granted a federal permit, and because the pipeline company had not negotiated in good faith, among other things.

“That’s how this case has been all along,” Mr. Freeman said. Opposing counsel “makes these claims that have no basis in law or fact, and then by the time I get around to answering it, the argument has changed.”

Packing the courtroom were around 50 supporters of Ms. Crawford. To some, the case showed why regulatory reform was needed.

Debra Medina, a Republican former candidate for governor, said she drove seven hours to be at the hearing.

“This is a clear example of where we have a problem in our law,” Ms. Medina said, “where companies who have not proven that they are a common carrier are allowed to take property using eminent-domain — before they ever demonstrate that they meet the criteria for that use.”
654 2012-08-24 Claiming they are being forced to carry out an illegal policy, 10 immigration agents filed a federal lawsuit in Texas on Thursday against Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, seeking to overturn an Obama administration program that suspends deportations for illegal immigrants who came here when they were children.

In the lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Dallas, the agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the program prevented them from detaining illegal immigrants who were public safety risks. The suit contends that the program, which started on Aug. 15, violates a law requiring agents to arrest illegal immigrants and infringes on the powers of Congress.

The agents said they faced disciplinary action by officials at ICE, as the agency is called, for arrests that conflict with its directives.

“They are in the unusual and untenable situation where they are asked to choose between following an order that makes them break federal law or disobeying the order and facing discipline at the hands of superiors,” said Kris Kobach, a lawyer for the agents.

Mr. Kobach, a Republican, is also the Kansas secretary of state, and this week he pushed to add several planks to the Republican Party platform calling for tough immigration enforcement.
655 2012-08-24 The case is being closely watched by officials in other distressed cities in California and elsewhere.

If Stockton’s case shows that public pensions can be reduced in federal bankruptcy court, despite state laws that protect the promised retirement funds, other severely strained communities are likely to try the same thing, said Karol K. Denniston, a bankruptcy lawyer at Schiff Hardin, who attended Stockton’s first hearing on the case Thursday as an observer.

“It’s the first time we’ve seen the clash of these issues,” said Ms. Denniston, who works with other California cities on restructuring their finances.

In the past, Chapter 9 bankruptcies by major cities have been extremely rare, so there is virtually no precedent for how the federal bankruptcy courts will handle municipal pensions. Companies and their workers do not face such uncertainty under Chapter 11.

A federal pension insurer, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, was created in 1974 to take over failing company pension plans and pay retirees their benefits, up to certain limits. Companies are also free to freeze their pension plans and switch to 401(k) plans without being bankrupt.

But there is no such legal framework, and no pension guarantor, for municipalities.

Calpers says that public pensions in California cannot be impaired, arguing that the state constitution and state court decisions prohibit cutting benefits.

A spokeswoman, Amy Norris, said Calpers also believed that Stockton’s retirees had priority over its bondholders and other unsecured creditors.

In bankruptcy, the federal law can trump the laws of the state, but the legal complexity of doing so with retirement benefits is daunting. Ms. Denniston said she did not think that a federal bankruptcy judge could resolve the issues alone, and predicted that at some point Stockton’s bankruptcy judge, Christopher M. Klein, would seek an advisory opinion from the state Supreme Court.

National, which has guaranteed bonds in the case with a face value of about $94 million, said in its court filing that growing pension costs were one of the most important factors in Stockton’s bankruptcy, and it offered a theory on why officials had failed to make demands of Calpers in prebankruptcy negotiations: the mayor, City Council members and other employees “have been receiving allegedly improper Calpers benefits for years.”

As evidence, National submitted a copy of a report from last April in Stockton’s newspaper, The Record, that said that since 1991 Stockton illegally enrolled three mayors and 14 City Council members in Calpers. The newspaper said Stockton had been funding these officials’ benefits with taxpayer dollars, in violation of the city charter. The current mayor, Ann Johnston, and two current City Council members were among those enrolled, but the city has since removed them, said a spokeswoman for the city manager, Connie Cochran.

The second insurer, Assured Guaranty, has also filed a complaint that Stockton did not negotiate in good faith with creditors. It has guaranteed bonds with a face value of $124 million — debt meant to cover pension contributions to Calpers.

Both insurers argue that Stockton’s failure to negotiate in good faith makes it ineligible for Chapter 9. Ms. Denniston said that rather than convincing Judge Klein to throw out the case, the insurers would use the eligibility argument to draw Calpers into the bankruptcy, where debt adjustments are being determined.

Lawyers for Stockton were in bankruptcy court on Thursday but did not address the specifics of the insurers’ arguments. Judge Klein gave the city until late December to submit a final response.

Marc Levinson, a lawyer representing Stockton, provided a recent letter from the city manager to Gov. Jerry Brown and other state officials, warning them that Stockton could “slip into municipal chaos if the state does not take a leadership role in reforming public pension law and practices.”

The city manager, Bob Deis, wrote that the city had held back from negotiations with Calpers because it was worried that if it cut police and firefighters’ pensions to affordable levels, the safety workers would leave for jobs in other cities that have not had to reduce their pension costs.

“Stockton is not interested in defending Calpers for Calpers’ sake,” Mr. Deis wrote.
656 2012-08-24 Some of the reaction to the report on brokerage audits was harsh.

“If any other businesses, such as manufacturing or software companies, had such high failure rates in their products, they would go out of business,” said Lynn E. Turner, a former partner in Coopers & Lybrand, a predecessor of PricewaterhouseCoopers, and a former chief accountant for the Securities and Exchange Commission. He then referred to the Yugo, a car from the former Yugoslavia that gained a reputation for very poor quality, and that soon vanished from showrooms.

In fact, the comparison to car manufacturers helps to show why it is so hard for the market to sort out whether audits are done well. The quality of a car will become clear after it is driven for a while, and consumers will notice.

But if an auditor does no work at all and just signs on the dotted line before pocketing the fee, that fact may never become public. If the company’s books were actually pristine, so that a good audit would have uncovered no problems, nothing is likely to surface to demonstrate how bad the audit was, unless someone inspects the work that was done.

Given that reality, it seems amazing that the auditing industry was able to escape any real oversight until 2002, when the Sarbanes-Oxley Act established the accounting oversight board. Until then, the only reviews of auditing were “peer reviews,” administered by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, in which one firm checked up on another. Few problems were ever found.

The board began work in 2003, and fairly quickly found problems. In the first year of reviews, it noticed that one company had overstated its current assets, making it look better. It then checked other companies and found that the error was widespread, involving customers of each of the Big Four. A round of restatements followed.

The 2010 reports — the most recent available and the ones with the high level of deficient audits — concerned audits of 2009 financial statements. Inspectors focused on financial companies, and zeroed in on the willingness of auditors to accept valuations of complex securities without determining whether the valuation methods used were reasonable.

That year, 2009, was also the year that politicians put heavy pressure on the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which sets accounting rules, to relax rules on marking securities to market value. At a public hearing in March, Robert H. Herz, then the chairman of the standards board, was excoriated by members of the House of Representatives capital markets subcommittee for issuing rules that made the banks look worse than they deserved to look. FASB (pronounced FASS-bee) soon relaxed the rules, and auditors were expected to assure compliance with those newly eased rules.

Some accountants privately speculate that some of the lapses found by oversight board auditors could have been influenced by the pressure not to make banks, already in trouble, look worse than was necessary.

In its inspections of the audits of 23 brokerage firms, many of the auditing lapses found by the board dealt with the failure of the auditing firms to do enough work, at least in the inspector’s view, to justify a conclusion that the numbers were correct. In 15 of the 23 audits cited in this week’s report, “firms did not perform sufficient procedures to test the occurrence, accuracy and completeness of revenue.” In six of the nine audits where the auditor had to deal with how much securities were worth, “firms did not perform sufficient procedures to test the valuation.”

That is different from saying that the auditor reached the wrong conclusion.

In the 2010 inspection of PricewaterhouseCoopers, auditors were found to have missed significant errors in how one company accounted for derivative securities it owned. The board inspectors cited no other errors in financial statements, but in 27 of the PWC audits — out of 71 reviewed — the auditors failed to perform work that the board thought should have been done.

Those 71 audits were not chosen at random.

“Our approach is risk-based on two different bases,” Jay Hanson, the only board member with extensive experience in auditing public companies, said in an interview. He said the board sought out the riskiest clients at each firm, and then paid attention to what it knew about different offices of the firm. It might even choose to look at work done by a specific partner whose previous work had been deemed subpar.

“We are going into areas where we think there could be problems,” he said. Presumably a review of audits chosen randomly would find fewer problems.

The Big Four firm that has gotten the most negative reviews is Deloitte & Touche. Under the law, the accounting board does not disclose negative conclusions regarding a firm’s quality control systems unless the firm fails to address those problems within a year. Last fall, Deloitte became the only major firm that has had such a review released.

This summer, Deloitte gained another unfortunate distinction. The system of peer reviews still functions, with reviewers looking at audits of private companies that are not subject to review by the oversight board. Deloitte’s review, by Ernst & Young, concluded that the firm had not done enough work on some audits, and said that after the reviewers pointed out problems, Deloitte did more work and a client company had to restate its financial statements.

Deloitte received a grade of “pass with deficiency.” That had never before happened to a major firm.

Deloitte declined to discuss that review with me, but provided a statement saying, “Deloitte is proud of the significant investments and hard work we have put into raising the bar on audit quality and we are confident those efforts are having a positive impact. Audit quality has been and continues to be our No. 1 priority.”

It is hard to imagine any firm saying otherwise, which makes such assertions less than fully persuasive.

If there is not enough work being done, one cause may be time pressure. Audits must be done within 60 days of the end of a company’s fiscal year, and if a firm has not allocated enough staff to do everything needed, it faces the stark choice of not signing an audit report, which would devastate a client company’s stock price, or signing and hoping. It should come as no surprise that the first choice is seldom the one chosen.

Another cause could be money. Audit fees have been under pressure in recent years, as some companies show a willingness to change audit firms to save money. Doing more work for less is not a prescription for commercial success.

Oversight board officials say they are doing what they can to keep the firms from cutting corners. “We have some incredibly brutal discussions with C.E.O.’s of firms,” said Mr. Hanson. “We ask, ‘What are you doing to assure it is the margin that is being squeezed, that it is not the work that is being squeezed?’ ”

The firms, of course, say the work is not being compromised. Such claims will be easier to believe when board inspectors find the number of audit deficiencies is declining, not rising.
657 2012-08-24 “We support going farther and faster with banking supervision with the European Council,” Mr. Hollande said. “Germany and France want to give these guidelines substance.”

Ahead of his own visit to Berlin, Mr. Samaras has lobbied for an easing of the terms international lenders imposed on the government in Athens in return for two huge bailouts. Among other things, Mr. Samaras is seeking a two-year extension of aid repayment schedules, pointing to the depression-level economic contraction Greece is experiencing as a result of the austerity measures the government has had to enforce.

Both Ms. Merkel and Mr. Hollande expressed support for the Greeks on Thursday, but gave no indication that they were willing to budge on the terms laid out in the bailout packages put together by the so-called troika — the European Central Bank, International Monetary Fund and European Commission.

“It is important that we all uphold our commitments and wait for the troika report to see what the result is,” Ms. Merkel said. “I will encourage Greece continue on its path to reform.”

Next month, the troika is to submit its review of progress made by Athens in resolving the fiscal and economic problems that necessitated the bailouts.

In an interview Thursday with the French daily newspaper Le Monde, Mr. Samaras restated his demand that European leaders be more flexible, saying Greece was not asking for additional funds, but that the country had “a need for air, to get our breath back.”

“We are fighting battles on numerous fronts,” he added, “against a devastating recession, against an invasive negative psychology, against extremism and populist demagoguery.”

The German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, told the German broadcaster SWR on Thursday that the decisive issue was how to get Greece back on a track of long-term economic stability that would win back trust of the markets. “More time is not a solution for the problems,” he said.

In an interview with the German newspaper Süddeutsche on Thursday, Mr. Samaras struck out against politicians who have demanded his country leave the euro zone, warning that such rhetoric damaged Greece’s efforts to repair its economy. Several members of Ms. Merkel’s governing coalition have called for Athens to exit the currency union.

Mr. Samaras told Süddeutsche that every time he heard such demands, he thought: “How am I supposed to privatize state-run companies? Which entrepreneur would invest euros in our country, if he risks getting drachma back?”

But as European leaders struggle with the crisis, surveys of euro zone business sentiment released Thursday supported expectations that the region is already in recession, as Germany is less and less able to prop up the rest of the region. Businesspeople remain gloomy in part because new orders have declined, according to a survey of purchasing managers by Markit, a research company.

The performance of Germany, Europe’s most powerful economy, has been helping compensate for recession in Spain and Italy. But the German growth engine continues to lose momentum, the Markit surveys for August showed. Sentiment in France improved slightly from July, but the survey still pointed to a decline in gross domestic product during the three months ending in September.

Official data on Germany reinforced that view Thursday. The Federal Statistical Office confirmed its estimate last week that Germany grew 0.3 percent in the second quarter of 2012 compared with the previous quarter. But more detailed data on the components of growth showed that although consumer spending improved, there was a worrying decline in investment by businesses in new machinery and other goods.

As the economic pain spreads to Germany and France, political pressure rises for Ms. Merkel and Mr. Hollande to find a solution. There is little chance that growth will recover before businesses regain confidence in the integrity of the euro zone and resume investing and hiring.

“A turnaround in sentiment can only be expected when the future of the euro zone starts to look more secure,” Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Bank, wrote in a note to clients. “Unfortunately, that does not seem be happening anytime soon.”

Some analysts saw reason for modest optimism in the survey numbers: While the mood among managers remained stuck at levels associated with recession, at least it did not deteriorate any further. Among manufacturers, optimism increased slightly.

“Although it is still too early to sound the all-clear, the data give hope that the recession in the euro zone will end at the turn of the year,” Christoph Weil, an economist at Commerzbank, wrote in a note. “The hope of an end to the recession as the year closes will only be fulfilled, however, if euro finance ministers and the European Central Bank manage to keep the sovereign debt crisis under control.”

Germany has arguably benefited from the crisis, which has driven down its borrowing costs because the country is perceived as a safe place to keep money. The Federal Statistical Office said Thursday that the German public sector, including state and municipal agencies as well as the federal government, reported a surplus of €8.3 billion, or $10.4 billion, for the first half of 2012 because of increased tax receipts.

Unemployment in Germany has continued to fall, which has added to tax revenue from payroll deductions. German governments are expected to report a deficit for the full year equal to 0.5 percent of gross domestic product — a sharp contrast to the large deficits prevalent in the rest of the euro zone.

The meeting Thursday was Mr. Hollande’s second trip to the German capital since winning election in May. The French president has sought a new role for his country, reaching out to southern E.U. members, like Italy and Spain, to provide a counterbalance to the German approach to solving Europe’s debt crisis that Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French president, willingly adopted.

“It’s a more fluid format than the exclusive Franco-German couple that we had seen until the French election,” said Nicolas Véron of the Bruegel research group in Brussels.

Still, for all their differences, the German and French leaders know that they have no choice but to work together to find a way out of the debt crisis.

Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and David Jolly from Paris.
658 2012-08-24 Boeing lost an order for 35 Dreamliners with a list price of $8.5 billion on Thursday in the biggest cancellation for the 787 jet as Qantas Airways scrapped a contract after delivery delays and losses on international routes.

Qantas’s decision underscores a slowdown in international travel that has caused carriers like Cathay Pacific Airways and Singapore Airlines to cut plans for expansion.

“It’s going to bother people more because of what it says about growth in air travel than because of anything it says about the 787,” Howard Rubel, an analyst with Jefferies & Company.

Qantas will receive $433 million from Boeing in compensation for delays and a refund of deposits for the canceled order, the airline’s chief financial officer, Gareth R. Evans, said.

Shares of Boeing fell $2.44, or 3.4 percent, to close at $70.36.

Boeing lost orders for 25 Dreamliners this year before Thursday, including a lot of 24 scrapped by China Eastern in March.
659 2012-08-24 After the failure of one effort to overhaul a major part of the  mutual fund  industry, top government officials worked on Thursday to find alternative ways to rein in what they see as a systemic threat to the financial system.   Treasury Secretar...
660 2012-08-24 Verizon Wireless on Thursday won unanimous Federal Communications Commission approval to move forward with its $3.9 billion purchase of airwaves from the country's largest cable providers.   An F.C.C. panel voted 5 to 0 to allow Verizon Wireless t...
661 2012-08-24 In this day and age, when routine chores like paying bills and ordering groceries can be done online at anytime, day or night, some New York State agencies have Web sites that have yet to join the 24/7 world.   The state's new electronic filing sy...
662 2012-08-24 8:31 p.m. | Updated  The government is one step closer to shedding its burden from the financial crisis.   The Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Thursday sold the last of the risky bonds that were acquired as part of the 2008 bailout of the  Ame...
663 2012-08-24 Photographs of The West Side Tennis Club by Russ Adams....
664 2012-08-25 MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin said Friday that Russia would be willing to negotiate new reductions in nuclear arms with the United States but that Washington must first change its plans for a missile defense system in Europe strongly opposed by the Kremlin.

Mr. Putin’s comments suggested, in theory, a new openness by Russia to going beyond the New Start treaty, which was signed by his predecessor, Dmitry A. Medvedev, and President Obama in April 2010 and ratified by the United States Senate later that year.

While the New Start treaty requires Russia and the United States to reduce their arsenals to 1,550 strategic warheads and 700 launchers within seven years, the countries have discussed a follow-up agreement that would cut tactical warheads and stored strategic weapons that are not covered by the existing treaty.

But Mr. Putin is well aware that Mr. Obama is unwilling to negotiate over the planned missile defense system, at least not before the American presidential election in November. So in the short term, Mr. Putin’s remarks were unlikely to lead to any new accord.

“Protecting humanity from the threat generated by weapons of mass destruction is rightly considered one of the key issues on the global agenda,” Mr. Putin wrote Friday in a letter to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War as the group opened its annual world congress, in Hiroshima, Japan. “Russia is open to new joint initiatives in this sphere.”

But he added, “Their realization is clearly possible only on a fair and mutual basis and if all factors affecting international security and strategic stability are taken into account.” He then specifically cited as an obstacle the “unilateral and unrestricted deployment” of a missile defense system by the United States.
665 2012-08-25 Amid the storm of criticism, members of Mr. Akin’s staff had been holed up in his headquarters here — a sterile, gray, one-story office building — fielding a thousand e-mails and telephone calls a day, rallying volunteers who stop by (some with checkbooks in hand) and plotting the candidate’s message.

Days have been stress-filled, aides say, though they have allowed for levity. On a recent morning, campaign staff members joked that one of them was so new they had not thought of a title for him yet.

In some ways, the staff members here have been reinvigorated to beat back what they see as attacks from the establishment on a candidate who has relied on grass-roots support throughout his nearly quarter-century in politics. They said they were heartened to have received more messages of support than criticism.

“Wednesday and Thursday, it’s just been a nonstop pouring of folks across the state saying, ‘Stand in there; don’t you dare back down,’ ” said Perry Akin, Mr. Akin’s son, a 31-year-old Marine Corps veteran who is serving as campaign manager.

The younger Mr. Akin, who has a master’s degree in business from the University of Chicago and is taking a leave of absence from his job in the corporate offices of John Deere, oversees a full-time staff of about 30 and hundreds of volunteers and three or four campaign offices throughout the state.

If much of Mr. Akin’s political apparatus feels homemade, the team that creates his political ads — the Strategy Group for Media, which is based in Ohio and has worked with Mr. Akin on Congressional races since 2000 — is well known, and has assisted campaigns of politicians like Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio.

Hours after Mr. Akin made his controversial comments on Sunday, Rex Elsass, the founder of the company, and Nick Everhart, its president, returned from an unrelated business trip to a mound of messages about what had happened. By Monday morning, Mr. Akin flew to Ohio, where the company created an apology advertisement.

Those advising Mr. Akin say he now needs to move on with his campaign, past the events of the week, and back to questions of the economy, jobs and fiscal stability — just as he seemed to try to do Friday afternoon.

“After deciding he was going to get back in the race,” Mr. Everhart said in an interview, “he needs to wage a campaign against Claire McCaskill, not against this incident.”

Still, Perry Akin acknowledged the challenges presented by influential groups like the National Republican Senatorial Committee pulling their support — and their money — for his father. Those groups had provided experts to the campaign with connections to people in Washington who had money, he said. Now he has to shift people to new roles, he said, and hire new consultants. Though with less financing, he said, he may not be able to afford high-priced advisers.

In the days since the controversy, the campaign has said that it raised more than $200,000 from small, individual contributions, but that is a far cry from the millions of dollars spent by outside groups like Crossroads GPS on advertisements attacking Ms. McCaskill.

“The Senate race in Missouri is an extremely important race that has some national priority,” said Ryan Hite, Mr. Akins’s 23-year-old communications director. “So I would, by my guess, expect to see some of the larger donors come back in because of the need to get rid of Claire McCaskill in our Senate seat.”

Before he took his turn in front of the news media on Friday, a smiling yet seemingly weary Mr. Akin stepped into his headquarters here carrying a Culver’s fish sandwich and greeted his staff after returning from Tampa. A woman walked in through the glass doors of the building, which sits at the front of an industrial office park, near a small airport with single-engine planes buzzing overhead.

“Hey, Lois, how you doing?” Mr. Akin called out to the woman.

He retreated to a conference room with aides, and later emerged with his statement for the news conference written on a yellow legal pad.

While Mr. Akin was in the conference room, the staff galloped through the hallways, preparing for what was coming. One woman, her keys jingling as she hustled down a long hallway, carried a role of Akin stickers; another toted a large banner out to her car.

At one point in the afternoon, Perry Akin — who had waded into the office that morning with a red backpack slung over his shoulder, two other bags hanging from his hand and a cellphone to his ear — paced the hallway.

“It’s been a tough week,” he said to a woman who had come in briefly.

“I know it has,” she responded. “You’re on the right track. Just hang in there.”
666 2012-08-25 Mr. Romney’s comments, however, seemed a turnabout from his accusation last week in Chillicothe, Ohio, when he said Mr. Obama was running a negative campaign. He was responding, in part, to harshly criticized comments from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who warned an audience in Virginia that the Romney-Ryan ticket would “put y’all back in chains.”

Mr. Romney said then of Mr. Obama: “His campaign and his surrogates have made wild and reckless accusations that disgrace the office of the presidency. Another outrageous charge came a few hours ago in Virginia. And the White House sinks a little a bit lower.”

In his introduction Thursday to the exurban, nearly all-white audience at an orchard farm here, Mr. Ryan, too, seemed to emphasize cultural differences with Mr. Obama.

“Remember about four years ago when he was talking to a bunch of donors in San Francisco and he said people in states like ours, we cling to our guns and our religion?” Mr. Ryan said, emphasizing the word “our.” It was a reference to Mr. Romney’s native Michigan and Mr. Ryan’s Wisconsin, but also, it seemed, to differences based on religion and class.

“I just have one thing to say,” Mr. Ryan added. “This Catholic deer hunter is guilty as charged, and proud of it.”

Mr. Obama’s campaign snapped to action, blasting out a critical statement just minutes after Mr. Romney made his comment, while voters were still streaming out of the event.

“Throughout this campaign, Governor Romney has embraced the most strident voices in his party instead of standing up to them,” said Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for Mr. Obama’s campaign, in an e-mail statement. “It’s one thing to give the stage in Tampa to Donald Trump, Sheriff Arpaio and Kris Kobach. But Governor Romney’s decision to directly enlist himself in the birther movement should give pause to any rational voter across America.”

Though several aides to Mr. Romney emphasized that he had previously stated his belief that the president was born in the United States, and was simply talking about his own local roots, Mr. Romney has long made a point of painting Mr. Obama as somebody who “takes his cues from the Social Democrats of Europe” and who is “a nice guy who just doesn’t get it.”

Some of Mr. Romney’s aides have gotten in trouble for seeming to question the president’s roots. During the primaries, one of Mr. Romney’s sons, Matt, was first to apologize after making a birther joke at a campaign stop. And on a conference call with reporters last month, John H. Sununu, a Romney surrogate and the former governor of New Hampshire, said, “I wish this president would learn how to be an American.” He later apologized for the remark.

Few voters in the crowd believed that Mr. Romney was simply talking about his home state. “It was probably a contrast with Obama’s birth certificate issue, and second, that he was born in Michigan,” said Daryl Pender, 56, who owns a small business in town. “I can’t say what’s fair. But it wasn’t relevant to what I wanted to know. I want to hear about his vision for the future.”

Sylvia Kaponi, 65, a retired Ford Motor employee from Livonia, Mich., said there was no doubt in her mind as to what Mr. Romney was referring to — and she thought it was “great.”

“What I liked was that it was a mild way to touch on a touchy subject with no animosity,” she said.

As Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan campaign through the Rust Belt, they are especially focused on increasing Republicans’ advantage with white working-class voters.

Once a reliable Democratic bloc, the white working class voted for Republican presidential candidates in the past three elections. Republicans captured a House majority in 2010 with a 30-point landslide among this group, according to exit polls.

But Mr. Romney so far appears not as strong among this group.

According to an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll this week, Mr. Romney leads white working-class voters by 13 points, similar to Senator John McCain’s 12-point advantage in 2008. Because the white working-class share of the electorate is declining compared with other demographic groups, Mr. Romney needs to improve on Mr. McCain’s results.
667 2012-08-25 Credit: Thor Swift for The New York Times
668 2012-08-25 Mr. Browne said that in Friday’s shooting, the two officers had taken account of their surroundings before firing, as they are trained to do. Video surveillance footage, Mr. Browne said, shows that most of the wounded bystanders were closer to the Empire State Building, while the shooter was near the curb.

One of those wounded said he was standing behind the gunman when the police opened fire.

“One of the cops shot me in my arm,” a 23-year-old man, Robert Asika, said outside Bellevue Hospital Center. He said that the gunman was moving toward him, and suggested that the officers “shot me probably trying to shoot him.”

Mr. Asika said he could not “really get mad at the cops.”

“I get they were doing their job, but they have to be a little more careful when they are aiming the gun at the suspect and not hit the innocent victims,” he said. Video released by the Police Department shows no one close to the gunman.

The two officers were from the South Bronx, working a tour as part of the Police Department’s counterterrorism deployment at high-profile locations. The duty normally entails helping tourists and the like, and as New Yorkers trickled into work shortly after 9 a.m., this day seemed no different. In the crowd that streamed past was a man dressed in a suit and tie and carrying a black bag, going by the officers calmly and unhurriedly, Mr. Browne said.

“He wouldn’t have drawn anyone’s particular attention,” Mr. Browne said, if not for a construction worker who “pointed him out to these officers.” The worker said that the man had just shot someone around the corner.

The officers approached the gunman, whom the police identified as Jeffrey T. Johnson, and the situation quickly escalated.

Surveillance video shows Mr. Johnson walking north on Fifth Avenue, between the street and some curbside planters. The two officers gave chase, just as a family of four walked past Mr. Johnson in the other direction. The video showed him reaching into a bag, pulling out a .45-caliber pistol and pointing it at the officers.

The shooting was over in a matter of seconds.

A number of the bystanders may have been wounded by bullet fragments and ricochets after bullets struck nearby flowerpots, Mr. Browne said, suggesting that the bystanders were not in the path of the bullets when the officers fired.

Many of the wounds to bystanders were “mostly in the lower extremity areas, such as legs and ankles, which would be consistent with some of the ricochet fragmented ballistics we found,” Mr. Browne said.

He said there was no ballistic evidence that the gunman fired any rounds as the police confronted him, though the police were still investigating a report by one witness who said the gunman did fire at the police.

The officers have been removed from patrol duty — standard practice when one discharges a weapon, the police said.

Mr. Browne said officers were trained to take cover, if possible, when facing a gunman, but there was no opportunity to do so here.

“They were approaching this man with a gun, and he turns on them, and he is eight feet away, pointing a gun right at them,” he said.

It is not unheard-of for bystanders to be hit in police shootouts. A year ago, a woman sitting on her stoop was killed in a shootout in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, in which the police fired 73 shots at a gunman who had just fatally shot another man. The police have since conceded that a police bullet might have killed the woman but have said the ballistics leave some uncertainty.

And a decision by the state’s highest court in 2010 found that the police involved in a 2005 shooting in Harlem could not be found negligent for wounding two bystanders. The majority decision noted that the officers had not seen any of the bystanders in the area at the time of the shooting. However, a dissenting opinion in the case pointed out that some of the officers had given testimony suggesting that they had not looked.

Officer Matthews is well-known in the Police Department because he had filed a federal lawsuit alleging that in the 42nd Precinct, there was a strict quota system for arrests, summonses and street stops.
669 2012-08-25 The adoption of a revised fiscal recovery plan has allowed Scranton to receive $2.2 million in state aid and a $6.25-million short-term loan to help it pay its bills. Scranton’s City Council adopted the revised plan on Thursday, less than two months after cash-flow problems forced Mayor Chris Doherty to cut the pay of hundreds of workers temporarily to the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour. A compromise agreement includes a commuter tax, a sales tax and contributions from city nonprofit groups. Officials say the city is still working on long-term loans to deal with a budget deficit.
670 2012-08-25 The jury found that various Samsung products violated Apple patents covering things like the “bounce back” effect when a user scrolls to the end of a list on the and , and a way to distinguish between one-finger scrolling from two-finger gestures like the pinch-to-zoom that magnifies an image. Samsung was also found to have infringed Apple patents covering the physical design of the iPhone.

In its decision on a countersuit by Samsung, the jury added some sting by finding in favor of Apple across the board. Samsung had asked for more than $422 million from Apple, contending it had violated Samsung’s patents, but got nothing.

Because Samsung was found to have willfully infringed Apple patents, the judge in the case could grant an Apple request to triple the damages Samsung is required to pay, though lawyers said the size of the initial award made this less likely.

Despite the eye-popping award, one of the largest ever in a patent case, the more important effect of the jury’s decision could be the impact it has on , the operating system used by Samsung and a broad array of other companies in their devices. For every iPhone sold worldwide, more than three smartphones running Android are sold, reflecting the meteoric rise of Google’s software.

Apple’s suit against Samsung, the world’s largest maker of smartphones, has partly been viewed as a proxy war against Google, which Apple executives have derided as a copycat, swiping Apple’s innovations. , the late chief executive of Apple, told his biographer that Android was a “stolen product.”

Apple is expected to ask the judge in the Samsung case for an injunction preventing Samsung from shipping products that infringe on Apple’s patents. The verdict could also bolster Apple’s legal attacks on Android devices from other companies.

“It’s going to make it very difficult for not only Samsung, but for other companies to mimic the Apple products,” said Robert Barr, executive director of the Center for Law and Technology at the .

Charles Golvin, an analyst at , said consumers could experience some discomfort in their use of smartphones if Samsung and other manufacturers are forced to design around certain basic functions to avoid violating Apple’s patents, though he believes the decision will prod them to innovate. “Consumers will adapt, but there will be some bumps in the road as they make that adaptation,” Mr. Golvin said.

The trial provided a rare window into the inner workings of the two companies, especially the highly secretive Apple, forcing them to divulge sales figures, business negotiations and internal memos. Apple executives offered colorful detail, like the way its designers cook up new products around a kitchen table at the company’s headquarters.

The evidence Apple presented, including internal Samsung memos and strategy documents, left little doubt that the iPhone inspired a major effort by the Korean manufacturer to overhaul its mobile phones. But a key question throughout the trial was whether the jury would decide that Samsung had stepped over the line by improperly copying Apple’s technologies. The members of the jury did not explain their decision before stealthily heading out a side exit.

The verdict in the trial hardly concludes the legal battles over patents among companies in the mobile business. There are dozens of such cases winding their way through the courts; Samsung and Apple have also been battling in , and elsewhere. Even so, Samsung remains a major supplier of components for Apple products.

While the decision is likely to weigh on Samsung shares, it sent Apple’s stock up 1.8 percent in after-hours trading. In a statement, Katie Cotton, an Apple spokeswoman, applauded the court for sending a “clear message that stealing isn’t right.”

“We make these products to delight our customers, not for our competitors to flagrantly copy,” she said.

Samsung said in a statement that the decision was a “loss for the American consumer.”

“It will lead to fewer choices, less innovation, and potentially higher prices,” the company said. “This is not the final word in this case or in battles being waged in courts and tribunals around the world, some of which have already rejected many of Apple’s claims.”
671 2012-08-25 “Wow! Top line results leave open many more possibilities than consensus has expected,” Timothy Anderson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, wrote in note Friday.

But Dr. Samuel E. Gandy, director of the center for cognitive health at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, was more cautious. “The bottom line for solanezumab, based on what we have heard so far, would have to be ‘maybe,’ ” he said, not “promising.”

The two clinical trials involved a total of more than 2,000 patients with mild or moderate Alzheimer’s disease who received either solanezumab or a placebo for 18 months. In both trials, those treated with the drug were not better off at the end of the trial than those who received the placebo, either in terms of cognition or daily functioning.

Lilly said, however, that when the results of the two trials were combined, creating a larger sample size, there was a statistically significant slowing of the decline in cognition. When the data was further broken down, it was found that this beneficial effect was found in the patients with mild disease but not those with moderate disease.

What this means for the drug’s future is still unclear. The effect of a drug on a subgroup of patients in a trial is typically not sufficient grounds for a drug to be approved without further clinical trials involving just that subgroup.

“We are very skeptical of the approvability of solanezumab without further trials,” Seamus Fernandez, an analyst at Leerink Swann, wrote Friday.

It is also not clear whether a slowing of cognitive decline, without an improvement of the ability of a patient to perform daily activities, would be sufficient for approval.

Lilly executives said in a conference call that they planned to meet with regulators to discuss what steps to take next.

Also left unclear Friday was how big the effect on cognition was — whether it would be meaningful for patients or merely meet some statistical test. Lilly executives declined to reveal that information, saying it would be presented at medical conferences in October.

One sign the effect might have been weak was that the effect on cognition was not statistically significant in one of the two trials, even counting only patients with mild disease.

“With no significant effect even in mild patients seen in one of the two studies, we expect the magnitude of the benefit to be questioned,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies & Company, said in a note.

Lilly emphasized the positive. “These are the first Phase 3 data for an anti-amyloid agent that have shown a statistically significant slowing in the rate of decline” of cognition, Dr. Eric Siemers, senior medical director of the Alzheimer’s disease team at Lilly, said on a conference call Friday.

Those who believe that beta amyloid is largely or partly responsible for Alzheimer’s say the failures of the recent trials do not necessarily contradict that theory. Rather, they say, it could just be that by the time Alzheimer’s disease is diagnosed, it might be too late to use such drugs. New trials are being planned using anti-amyloid drugs to try to arrest development of Alzheimer’s disease.

Lilly’s results, showing a better effect in mild patients, might lend support to those arguments.
672 2012-08-25 LILLE, France — The Open Teams at the Second World Mind Sports Games here this week was a triumph for Sweden, represented by Krister Ahlesved, Jonas Petersson, Peter Bertheau, Per-Ola Cullin, Fredrik Nystrom and Johan Upmark, with its nonplaying captain, Mats Axdorph.

In the semifinals Sweden defeated the pretournament favorite, Monaco, by 46 imps. Then in the final Sweden overwhelmed Poland (Cezary Balicki, Adam Zmudzinski, Krzysztof Buras, Grzegorz Narkiewicz, Piotr Zak and Jerzy Zaremba, with its nonplaying captain, Piotr Walczak) by 371 international match points to 234. This is Sweden’s first open world team title.

The diagramed deal was Board 54 of the 128-deal final.

At the other table Zmudzinski (North) and Balicki (South) had a bidding misunderstanding. South opened one heart, and Petersson (West) overcalled three clubs, showing at least 5-5 in spades and diamonds (Ghestem). Now North jumped to four spades, thinking it was Exclusion Roman Key Card Blackwood, showing a big heart fit, a spade void and asking for key cards not including the spade ace. Balicki believes that, when responding to Exclusion, the response sequence should be 1, 0, 2. So here, when he replied four no-trump, North thought his partner had one key card, the heart ace or king. Now North bid five clubs, asking for the heart queen, and South showed it by bidding five hearts. North raised to six hearts.

South, though, believed that four spades was a splinter bid, announcing slam interest in hearts with a singleton or void spade. He bid four no-trump, Roman Key Card Blackwood, and North’s five clubs promised one or four key cards. Since it had to be one, South signed off in five hearts. But North raised to six hearts anyway; presumably he had a spade void.

Now Ahlesved (East) sacrificed in six spades, which South doubled.

That contract had to go down one, losing one heart and one diamond.

In the given auction Buras (West) overcalled the weak two-bid by Cullin (South) with four diamonds to show a good hand with at least 5-5 in spades and diamonds (Leaping Michaels). Now Bertheau (North) decided to adopt a softly-softly approach. Confident that East would bid spades, Bertheau raised only to four hearts.
673 2012-08-25 Some of this isn’t up to us, because most states require you to have at least some auto insurance. Still, it’s worth looking at a couple of areas where vulnerability can be particularly high: liability insurance (in case you hurt or kill someone else) and the uninsured or underinsured motorist coverage that was at stake in the Fisher case.

Then, we can see what our odds are of needing to make a claim and how comfortable we are making bets accordingly.

First, the facts. The approximately 210 million licensed drivers in the United States had an estimated 5,419,000 crashes that police took reports on in 2010, the most recent year that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has data. Those crashes killed 32,885 people and injured 2,239,000.

For every 100 million vehicle miles that people traveled, there were 75 injuries, including those to pedestrians, and there were 1,066 injuries for every 100,000 licensed drivers.

How costly were those injuries? When accidents happen and the disputes wind up in court, they don’t tend to generate enormous payouts. According to a service called Jury Verdict Research, the median jury award for liability cases in 2010 for vehicular accidents was just $19,806.

That said, outsize awards are common enough (topping out at just over $13 million that year) that the average award was $181,197. And according to ISO, an insurance risk information service, about 5 percent of bodily injury claims in 2010 were for more than $100,000 while about 2 percent reached $300,000.

The odds of running into people with no insurance at all to pay for your claims against them are probably higher than you think. The Insurance Research Council’s most recent estimate, from 2009, is that 13.8 percent of all United States drivers have no insurance at all. In Florida, it’s 23.5 percent, and in Michigan it’s 19.5 percent.

ISO estimates that about 20 percent of people who do have insurance purchase just the minimum liability coverage in case they hurt someone else. Their policies may pay out as little as $25,000 in many states. That’s why Kirby Francis remains glad six years later that his parents had $500,000 in underinsured motorist coverage back when someone crossed a highway line in Oregon and plowed into him head-on while he was driving home from college.

The other driver, who ended up dead in a canyon 200 feet below the road, had just $50,000 in coverage. By the time Mr. Francis punched his way out of his burning vehicle, with a lacerated spleen, a broken tibia, and his elbow in six pieces, he was in need of $130,000 in operations and other medical care, including radiation treatments for his arm that his health insurer wasn’t going to pay for. He also said that he received a $200,000 settlement for his troubles, beyond the reimbursement for medical costs that mostly went to his health insurance company.

So we begin with these basic facts, and then there are other people’s stories. But in the end, there’s just you and me, and if we’re honest with ourselves, we’ll acknowledge the specific risk factors that leave us particularly vulnerable. We may drive drunk, tired, quickly, at night or with a mobile phone in one hand.

Perhaps there are children in the back who are distracting, maybe even an entire car pool full of ones whose parents would sue pretty quickly if they were injured on your watch. Or your children have just learned to drive. Or you’re starting to make the same mistakes behind the wheel that you did 60 years ago.

So what would it cost to lock in better coverage? The industry-supported Insurance Information Institute figures it costs about $200 extra annually per vehicle to take your liability limit from $50,000 to $1 million per accident. Gonzo drivers with sketchy records may pay more. Raising your uninsured and underinsured coverage by similar amounts could cost less than half that amount.

Taken together, that’s not an enormous amount on a percentage basis on top of what may be an annual insurance bill of $1,000 or more.

Still, many of us will tell ourselves all sorts of stories about why this isn’t necessary. For instance, we may figure that no one is going to come after us beyond whatever minimum amount our insurance policy will pay. But if you’re at fault and don’t have enough insurance, the job of plaintiff’s lawyers is to track down both the assets you have now and the ones you may accrue later. They may keep an eye out for any future windfall long after any judgment and then try to use it to satisfy whatever you still owe.

Or perhaps we think we’re suckers for buying more insurance, since those same lawyers will then inflate claims in order to extract money from both the insurance company and our assets.

But that’s not how it works in the real world, according to Michael Jaffe, president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association. “There’s always a jury trial that is potentially out there,” Mr. Jaffe said. “So I’m not going to get 5X just because someone has an insurance policy instead of X. A person’s insurance policy is not going to change the legal value of the case.”

The trial lawyers’ association backed a bill, which recently passed the Legislature, that would automatically increase uninsured and underinsured coverage (and hit-and-run motorist insurance, which is included in those policies) when consumers elect to buy more liability coverage. Drivers can still choose to opt out of increased uninsured coverage, however.

Given the long odds of a bad wreck with a big claim, you could roll the dice on inexpensive insurance and simply declare bankruptcy if you hurt someone badly enough. Anyone suing you probably won’t be able to get at your retirement savings in a 401(k) or similar plan or an individual retirement account and, in some states, may not be able to extract your home equity either.

This is not a bulletproof strategy, however, according to Edward C. Boltz, a Durham, N.C., bankruptcy lawyer. He notes that if you’re driving while under the influence, any judgment will stick with you even if you do file for bankruptcy. An injured party may also be able to prevent you from discharging a judgment if they can persuade a jury that your error on the road was somehow willful or malicious.

So we begin this process with what we think is a rational look at the numbers. We assess our assets and consider what money we might earn, win or inherit in the future. And again, that money might be vulnerable long after any judgments against us, since judgments tend to live on long after any trial.

But what we’re really talking about here is risk tolerance — how we feel after all we take in all of the data about the long odds of losing everything. “Not to be overly dramatic, but in some sense, when you pull out of that garage, you’re putting that at risk,” said J. J. Montanaro, a financial planner with the insurance company USAA.

Yes, he works for an insurance company, albeit on a salary that does not include incentives based on what he sells. But it helps frame the overarching questions in the right way.

Is it worth saving $25 or so a month to leave yourself exposed to the highly unlikely worst case? Or would you sleep better at night knowing that you could cross that off your list of things to worry about, assuming your insurance company doesn’t fight you or your heirs in court as Progressive did with the Fisher family?

I’m with the sleep-better crowd. But the only wrong answer to the question results from not considering all of the facts when asking it in the first place.
674 2012-08-25 Excluding dividends, no major market is above its 2007 peak.

Over all, the MSCI All Country index fell 58 percent during the decline. It remains 13 percent below the 2007 peak, even assuming reinvestment of dividends.

The worldwide nature of the 2007-9 plunge is illustrated by the fact that each of the 30 markets lost at least half of its value by the time markets bottomed. In only two of the countries — Japan and Switzerland — did the market decline less than the United States market, which fell by 55 percent.

The United States index was 2 percent higher this week than it had been at the peak more than four years ago. That is hardly the type of performance that would have seemed attractive then, but only Mexico and Singapore have done better over the stretch. The Swedish market is also up a bit from the 2007 peak.

At the other end of the spectrum is Greece, the only market that is now lower than it was at the 2009 low. Recessions ended in most other countries, but the Greek depression continues and shows no signs of ending. The country is getting by with international assistance, but its membership in the euro zone means that it has been unable to stimulate its economy through currency devaluation.

It comes as no surprise that the other troubled euro countries are also near the bottom of the performance list, but even the euro countries that have done relatively well have suffered. The 11 euro zone countries that are included are all among the bottom 14 countries in performance since the 2007 peak. The other three are the BRIC countries other than Brazil.

Why has the United States done so (relatively) well? Part of the answer may be the belief that dollar-denominated assets are a safe haven at a time of currency instability. In addition, the American economy, while hardly soaring, has performed better than most, with corporate profits especially strong. There are indications that those profits are beginning to come under pressure, however, which may make further gains more difficult to achieve.

It was, of course, the excesses of the American financial system that led to the crisis, so it must rankle many in Europe and Asia that the American stock market appears to have done one of the best jobs of weathering the subsequent storm.
675 2012-08-25 The singer and songwriter is taking his protest music to a new level for his latest album, “Election Special,” which takes on Republicans....
676 2012-08-25 “There’s been an explosion of interest in having a dietitian among grocery store retailers in the last three or four years,” said Annette Maggi, chairwoman of the supermarket subgroup of the food and culinary professionals practice group at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and a consultant to the retail and food manufacturing industries.

The supermarket subgroup now has more than 400 members and its numbers are rising, Ms. Maggi said. Jane Andrews at Wegmans is widely regarded as the grande dame of supermarket dietitians, becoming the first dietitian on its staff in 1988 and now supervising a team of six. Other regional chains like Meijer, Giant Eagle, Bashas’ and H-E-B also have them, and bigger grocery stores are getting involved, too.

Kroger, which already has dietitians on staff, is adding more of them to its King Soopers chain in the West.

At Meijer, a regional supermarket chain in the Midwest, the five dietitians do about 100 events a quarter, 80 to 85 appearances at community events, health assessments with company employees, in-store cooking demonstrations and educational programs on health subjects like diabetes and heart disease.

They also are responsible for maintaining pages on the company Web site and producing a variety of pamphlets and booklets.

“Like almost all of us, I started out in a hospital, but I switched because I wanted to talk to people about what they were eating before they got sick,” said Shari Steinbach, the lead dietitian at Meijer.

Ms. Steinbach has been a grocery store dietitian for 24 years, and she said she had never seen interest in the position so high. “I think retailers are starting to see our value,” she said. “They can document increased sales of healthier items, the e-mails from shoppers wanting appointments, the invitations from manufacturers wanting us to come to their conferences.”

Andy McCann, senior vice president for retail health at Hy-Vee, said he got about three or four calls and e-mails each week from other grocery store operators wanting to know more about Hy-Vee’s dietitians.

One of the most frequent questions callers have is how Hy-Vee calculates its financial return on its investment in dietitians. “We have store directors in eight states who have looked at it and say they can’t afford not to have a dietitian in their stores,” Mr. McCann said. “It’s very difficult to calculate a return on investment, but when you look at day to day what the dietitians do, it’s easy to see how they’re valuable.”

At Hy-Vee, dietitians offer in-store consultations and store tours with customers, hold cooking classes, assemble take-home meals, take biometric screenings, do presentations in schools, businesses and civic events, work with merchandisers, help set up community gardens, assess products for nutritional value and a variety of other things.

They also explain the NuVal system, a nutritional scoring system done by independent nutritionists and medical experts that more and more retailers, including Hy-Vee, are deploying to help consumers assess products.

The dietitian’s role is expanding, said Phil Lempert, a grocery industry expert and author of the blog Supermarket Guru. “The field of nutrition is getting more and more complicated,” Mr. Lempert said. “Merchants used to buy on price and promotion, but you can’t buy that way any more with all the product claims. You need someone around who understands whether products can really deliver, whether they’re safe.”

He has set up a new organization, the Retail Dietitians Business Alliance, that will offer its members a weekly newsletter with tips on merchandising, webinars about how to demonstrate the value of a dietitian in a retail setting, and workshops at gatherings like Expo West in March and the Food Marketing Institute’s Health and Wellness Conference.

Recently, Kristen Decker, the dietitian at the Utica Ridge Hy-Vee in Davenport, Iowa, just across the Mississippi River from Moline, spent her morning preparing Fast Fit Meals, a program that supplies three meals and two snacks a day totaling 1,200 to 1,500 calories to cover five days a week. Shoppers pay $75 for a week and pick up the food and instructions for preparing it each day on a specific day of the week.

“We have four weeks of menus, and they never eat the same thing twice during that period,” Ms. Decker said. “There is a mix of fresh, frozen and dry, and if you don’t like fish or broccoli, we’ll find a substitute.”

Six shoppers were stopping by that evening to pick up meals, but Ms. Decker said that number would double after the summer break.

“Customers don’t have a lot of time, or they don’t know what to look for,” she said. “The claims on the front of the packaging aren’t always about nutrition, or sometimes they just don’t know what’s important. I had a customer, for instance, ask about whether he should be more concerned about sugar or fat.”

Megan Leahy, the deli manager at the Hy-Vee in Rock Island, Ill., knows to watch the fats she eats. Ms. Leahy has Chrissy Watters, the dietitian in her store, monitor her cholesterol, heart rate, weight and other biometrics, which entitles her to a discount on her insurance.

“Your glucose is perfect,” Ms. Watters told her. “You’re still working on your waist circumference.”

She recommended more aerobic activity, eating more fish and using canola oil.

Ms. Leahy has started running, and she said Ms. Watters had given her some ideas for foods lower in cholesterol, including a spinach dip made with yogurt. But she wrinkled her nose at the mention of fish, which all of the dietitians said was a hard sell. “I’m like a 5-year-old when it comes to trying new food,” Ms. Leahy said.

While Ms. Watters was giving a tour of the store, a call came in from Chris Carlson, a shopper whom she had advised. Mr. Carlson had come to her after having a blood test showing his triglycerides were at 880 and his total cholesterol was at 332.

“I knew I needed to make significant changes, and I had contacted various groups, but they all wanted me to pay a lot of money to do their programs,” Mr. Carlson said.

His wife had consulted with a Hy-Vee dietitian when her mother found out she was gluten intolerant, and she suggested he make an appointment with Ms. Watters. “She gave use some ideas about how to change our diets with different meats and get off the sugar and walked us through the store,” Mr. Carlson said.

He called that day, two months later, because he had been to the doctor and his cholesterol had dropped to 170 and he had lost 27 pounds. “As someone whose business is sales, I can see how having someone like Chrissy is good for Hy-Vee,” Mr. Carlson said.
677 2012-08-25 For seven straight years, he beat everybody up the mountains and through the long valleys and around the frantic circuits of the time trials of the only race that mattered to him and his master plan. Win the Tour and you gain immortality.

A great champion like Greg LeMond could witness Armstrong barreling up some Alpine pass and insist that no human could possibly climb at that rate without doping. LeMond and some friends were righteous in their rage and suspicion. Yet other cyclists were testing positive even under the halfhearted efforts of the world cycling body.

Was Armstrong using some more potent drug, or using it more often? I doubt that. My guess is that cycling has been the ultimate level playing ground we all say we want for sports. It was also a lethal business, by the way: young Tour aspirants were falling off their machines, quite dead, because their altered blood was the thickness of tomato bisque.

The ones who really did not want to dope went away. Check out the recent essay “How to Get Doping Out of Sports,” by Jonathan Vaughters, in The New York Times Sunday Review.

Vaughters is a former Tour cyclist who is now running a proclaimed clean program that is competing in the Tour, in a different and vastly more supervised age. The one name you will not find in that essay is Lance Armstrong, who was the straw boss of the team during Vaughters’s short time around the Tour. Make no mistake: that personal history is the subtext for that essay, for Vaughters’s admission of doping.

Armstrong did all the hard training that Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens did, for example — dominating his sport the way they dominated theirs. He was combative like them but also charismatic, with a cause far more compelling than theirs: as a survivor of a lethal cancer, he has a foundation that fights cancer. I am told by doctors that if he did take illegal cycling drugs, or even recreational drugs, they did not give him cancer, and also that his struggle with cancer and use of cancer drugs did not lead to his later dominance, except possibly for the weight loss that allowed him to handle the hills better. But he had always been a potential Tour champion.

As Armstrong kept winning the Tour, most people covering the sport were not tracking the whispers and the circumstantial evidence. The journalists David Walsh and Pierre Ballester wrote a book, “L.A. Confidentiel: Les Secrets de Lance Armstrong,” published only in French in 2004. Armstrong’s lawyers have made sure the book was never published in English, but I can read French (with the help of a dictionary) and was tantalized by some details.

Maybe the most telling segment concerns an Irish masseuse named Emma O’Reilly, who was Armstrong’s personal kneader during the 1999 Tour. (She was also asked to make a mysterious run from Spain to France, to deliver some mysterious material across the border.)

During the 1999 Tour, O’Reilly said, her workload had been lightened when one cyclist, the aforementioned Vaughters, dropped out of the race. That left her more time to minister to Armstrong and one other rider. On the team bus, she claimed, she heard several top team officials fretting about a positive test by Armstrong for steroids. They were in a panic, saying: “What are we going to do? What are we going to do?” Their solution was to get one of their compliant doctors to issue a prescription for a steroid-based ointment to combat saddle sores. If Armstrong had saddle sores, O’Reilly said, she would have known.

In “Confidentiel” (page 207), O’Reilly quotes Armstrong as telling her, “Now Emma you know enough to bring me down.”

That backdated doctor’s note in 1999 nullified the finding of steroids. Lance rode on. Five years later, during an early stage in Belgium, I referred to a “positive test” in 1999. One of Armstrong’s top advisers sidled up to me in a prerace staging area and said, in unmistakably legal terms, that a nullified result was not a positive test. I granted the legal distinction but always remembered the urgent and specific way that message was delivered.

That same time in Belgium, Armstrong was browbeating confidants to forget things they might have heard. I know some people who hate him for the tight way he ran the team, and for the threats they said he made. Over the years some associates said Armstrong had doped, or admitted doping. My position was that the sport was administering tests and that other cyclists were failing them. Got proof? I asked. Nobody really did.

Eventually the new scrutiny and other suits forced cycling to tighten up. It was too dirty to go on like that. Two disgraced champions sang on Armstrong: Floyd Landis and Tyler Hamilton. The United States Anti-Doping Agency became, as the saying goes, interested in Armstrong. And finally, that most loyal and longstanding outrider of them all, George Hincapie, was forced to give testimony. Omertà goes only so far.

Armstrong now says he will not play their little game, satisfy their vendetta. He denies all. The world knows he won seven straight Tours, he says, and that is good enough for him.

Of all the legion of the lost, Armstrong most compares to Rose, who had a swagger and a crude charm and made his sport come alive. I still like some of Pete, too, but he did his complicated image a terrible disservice by not cutting his losses early and admitting that he had gambled on his sport. His hits were enough, he felt, but he was dead wrong.

Armstrong suggests that his seven Tours — his open superiority — will sustain him. Now he pays his lawyers and leaves the race maintaining his innocence. I always left the subject of innocence to the tests, to the authorities, to the labs. However, by his departure, I think Lance is trying to tell us something.
678 2012-08-25 To work properly, the new banking regulator will need far greater powers than the existing European Banking Authority, which is only about two years old. The banking authority lost credibility after it conducted two rounds of stress tests on European banks but failed to highlight the sector’s looming problems, particularly those in Spain.

In a statement, the commission said it would specify the central bank’s new role and its relationship with national supervisors. Putting the central bank in charge could greatly diminish the possibility of political interference in banking regulation by reducing the ability of countries to protect favored lenders.

It said it would also address whether banks outside the euro area would fall under the purview of the new system and to what extent the existing banking agency would maintain a supervisory role.

The commission said that its goal was to make the proposals on Sept. 11, but that the date was not final. It said the new system was to enter into force early in 2013, although analysts have said there may be delays.

One of the thorniest questions for the commission is how many banks the central bank will oversee, and whether they will include politically sensitive lenders like savings banks in Germany.

The proposed regulations will still be “subject to debate and agreement among the member states, and that is likely to prove contentious,” Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst for the Eurasia Group, wrote in a note on Thursday.

Because “many difficult issues remain,” Mr. Rahman wrote, “implementation could be delayed, in turn delaying the direct recapitalization of Spanish banks.”

Another important step toward shoring up the euro is the authorization of a permanent European bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to succeed the current, temporary bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility. The permanent fund, capitalized at 500 billion euros, or $627 billion, was scheduled to begin operating over the summer but is now awaiting a decision on its legality by the German constitutional court, due on Sept. 12.

The delay in establishing the permanent fund is also holding up action by the European Central Bank to buy bonds from troubled euro countries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs and help the countries refinance their budgets. The central bank’s president, Mario Draghi, said this month that it was working on a bond-buying plan, but the bank is thought to be unwilling to proceed without the permanent bailout fund in place.
679 2012-08-25 Larry M. Wortzel, of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a panel created by Congress, said that China was developing the capability to put as many as 10 nuclear warheads on an ICBM, although dummy warheads could be substituted for some of the nuclear warheads. The dummy warheads would have heat and electromagnetic devices designed to trick missile defense systems, he said.

“The bigger implication of this is that as they begin to field a force of missiles with multiple warheads, it means everything we assume about the size of their nuclear arsenal becomes wrong,” said Mr. Wortzel, who is a former military intelligence officer and retired Army colonel.

China has separately tested submarine-launched missiles in recent weeks, which it could use to outflank American missile detection systems, Mr. Wortzel said. Most of the radar arrays that the United States has deployed against ballistic missiles were built during the cold war to detect attacks over polar routes.

Sun Zhe, a professor of international relations at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said that China was developing its military forces only in response to continued efforts by other countries, particularly the United States, to improve their own forces.

“We have again and again said that we will not be the first country to use nuclear force,” he said. “We need to be able to defend ourselves, and our main threat, I’m afraid, comes from the United States.”

China’s development of long-range missiles is part of a much broader military expansion made possible by rapid budget growth in tandem with the Chinese economy, which had an output of $7.5 trillion last year, compared with $1.2 trillion in 2000.

China began sea trials last year for its first aircraft carrier, a retrofitted version of a Soviet vessel, and has begun talking this summer about the eventual construction of up to five aircraft carriers. China also began conducting fairly public flight tests in January last year for the J-20, its new stealth fighter jet.

The scale of China’s strategic missile program is much more secret. The Pentagon estimates that China currently has 55 to 65 ICBMs. China is also preparing two submarines for deployment, each with 12 missiles aboard, Mr. Wortzel said.

Those forces are dwarfed by those of the United States, which is cutting its inventory to 1,550 strategic nuclear weapons by 2018 under the latest arms control agreement with Russia.

Western forecasts vary on how many of the new Dongfeng-41 missiles China will produce, with 20 to 32 mobile launching systems planned. The mobile launchers make it harder to find and destroy a missile before it is launched. If each missile has 10 nuclear warheads, that could result in a few hundred to several hundred nuclear weapons.

But Tom Z. Collina, the research director of the Arms Control Association, said that China might not actually deploy multiple warheads without first developing and testing smaller warheads. And China signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996, agreeing not to conduct further nuclear tests.

The United States has tried to reassure Russia and China that its limited ballistic missile defenses are designed only to shoot down one or a few missiles launched by a rogue state. But missile defense advocates in the United States favor more ambitious, and also far costlier, systems, a spirited debate that has been followed with nervousness in Moscow and Beijing.

The United States has been considering where it can best place additional high-tech radar systems designed to track ballistic missiles. American forces currently have one in northern Japan and others that are deployed from time to time at sea. The Wall Street Journal reported this week on discussions of whether to put two more on land, in southern Japan and in Southeast Asia.

American officials have repeatedly said that their main concern is North Korea, which has been testing long-range missiles and developing nuclear weapons. But Chinese officials and experts have been suspicious that American defense systems are aimed at their country’s forces as well.

“I have no doubt that one of the goals of the missile defenses is to contain threats from North Korea, but objectively speaking, a high-tech expansion of U.S. military biceps impacts China, too,” said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing. He added that discussions had taken place in China on whether to develop missile defense systems as well.
680 2012-08-25 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at BAM Advisor Services. His book, " The Behavior Gap ," was published this year. His sketches are archived  on the Bucks blog.     We rea...
681 2012-08-25 Twelve semifinalists have been selected for the 25th Annual  Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition , to be held on Sept. 22 and 23 in Washington. Presented by the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, the competition is widely regarded as th...
682 2012-08-25 WEISS--Philip, 86, on August 23. Predeceased by his beloved wife of 60 years, Dorothy (nee Miller). Father of Adrienne Weiss-Harrison (Andrew), Claudia Weiss (Arthur), grandfather of Mark, Rachel, and Alison. Funeral August 26, 11am, Temple Shalom...
683 2012-08-25 While President Obama and Mitt Romney crisscross the   nation raising money for their campaigns, in the battleground...
684 2012-08-25 Reviews of shows from the New York International Fringe Festival will appear on ArtsBeat through the festival's close on Aug. 26. For more information, go to fringenyc.org.   Aha! The choreography is intentionally clunky. The program notes say so....
685 2012-08-25 Along with frets about the political fortunes of Representative Todd Akin, the Republican Senate nominee from Missouri whose comments about rape set off their own tempest, Tropical Storm Isaac was a dominant topic of conversation at a pre-conventi...
686 2012-08-26 The Times asked writers, players and fans what the United States Open of their dreams would include. What if money, space, time, even logic were no object?...
687 2012-08-26 Players and fans have their own ideas about what the U.S. Open of their dreams would include....
688 2012-08-26 Opposing views on should women play five sets or should men play three....
689 2012-08-26 Andy Murray endured a heartbreaking loss in the Wimbledon final and then won the Olympic gold medal at the All England Club....
690 2012-08-26 With Tropical Storm Isaac threatening to gain hurricane strength, organizers could truncate the Republican convention even more out of sensitivity to any damage....
691 2012-08-26 Mitt Romney likes inexpensive shirts sold by Costco....
692 2012-08-26 Among the players who could impress at the U.S. Open are the Americans Sloane Stephens and Sam Querrey, who share a coach....
693 2012-08-26 Emily Anderson Rudkin and John Michael Day Jr. were married Saturday at the Biltmore Estate in Asheville, N.C. The Rev. Dr. Arthur Ross III, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Day, 27, is an architectural designer at Vines Architecture, a firm in Raleigh, N.C. She graduated from Wofford College in Spartanburg, S.C., and received a master’s in architecture from North Carolina State University.

She is a daughter of Susan S. Rudkin and Michael P. Rudkin of Raleigh. The bride’s father is a project manager for Backwater Environmental, a division of the Osborne Company of Eden, N.C., which prepares construction sites for building projects. Her mother is a registered nurse at the main campus of WakeMed Health and Hospitals, a Raleigh health care network.

She is a paternal great-granddaughter of Margaret Fogarty Rudkin, the founder of the Pepperidge Farm food company.

Mr. Day, also 27, is a senior analyst at Square 1 Bank in Durham, N.C., which provides financing for entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. He also graduated from Wofford College.

He is the son of Debbie M. Day and John M. Day of Raleigh. The groom’s father is managing partner of KDI Capital Partners, a Raleigh investment firm.
694 2012-08-26 Petra Kvitova beat Maria Kirilenko, 7-6 (9), 7-5, to win the New Haven Open, her second WTA tournament title in three weeks. Kvitova improved to 22-5 on hardcourts this season heading into the United States Open. Kvitova clinched the United States Open series championship this week after winning her first title of the year in Montreal and reaching the semifinals in Cincinnati.
695 2012-08-26 But the move comes amid what witnesses described as intensified efforts by Egypt to curtail underground smuggling through the tunnels that connect Gaza to Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula. Cranes, bulldozers and drilling machines were seen over the weekend on the Egyptian side of the tunnels, and smugglers said that the transport of construction materials had nearly stopped.

Even as Hamas seemed to be repairing its relationship with Egypt, its leadership further antagonized its Palestinian rivals, by announcing on Saturday that the Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniya, planned to attend this week’s summit meeting of the Nonaligned Movement in Iran.

Iran is the main financial sponsor and arms provider for Hamas, the Islamic movement that took over Gaza in 2007.

Leaders of the rival Fatah organization had called on Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority and leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, not to attend the meeting if Mr. Haniya did.

The United States and much of the world considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization and recognizes Mr. Abbas as the leader of the Palestinian people. Hamas and Mr. Abbas’s Fatah faction have signed several reconciliation agreements, but they have found little traction.

Fatah leaders had called on Mr. Haniya not to attend the summit meeting, and said that they would boycott if he attended. On Saturday, Fatah officials said they were pressing Iran’s leadership to withdraw the invitation to Mr. Haniya and asking other members of the Nonaligned Movement to stay away from the meeting if Mr. Haniya attends.

“This is outside protocol, of course,” complained Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the P.L.O. executive committee, accusing the Iranian government of overstepping its role as host. “The whole movement recognizes the president as the head of the political system and institutions in Palestine. You cannot start inviting others at will.

“It’s like inviting a government and its opposition at the same time. It enforces the division, the rift, as if there are two governments, and parity between them both.”

The Nonaligned Movement is made up of 120 nations that were not allied with either the United States or the Soviet Union during the cold war, and it convenes a meeting every three years. Iran is hosting this year’s event and taking over leadership of the movement, and given the current international effort to isolate Iran because of its nuclear program, that has caused numerous problems. Israel and the United States have objected to the attendance of Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the United Nations.

Mr. Abbas’s plan to petition the United Nations General Assembly for observer state status this fall is on the meeting’s agenda. He had planned to host a mini-conference of nonaligned nations focused on the issue this month in the West Bank, but was thwarted when Israel refused to allow the delegations from several countries to attend.

Salam Fayyad, the prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, issued a statement on Saturday condemning Iran’s invitation to Mr. Haniya as “a dangerous escalation of the Iranian position” and calling his acceptance “a stab in the side of the Palestinian national project.” Mr. Fayyad appealed to Mr. Haniya “to make sure that his patriotism and Palestinian identity overcome all other considerations.”
696 2012-08-26 About 1,400 players from 162 countries are expected in Istanbul on Tuesday for the biennial Chess Olympiad....
697 2012-08-26 How the Jury Decided in the Apple-Samsung Patent Case

The nine-member jury in the patent dispute between Apple and Samsung had to decide whether Samsung violated seven key Apple patents in two dozen models of smartphones and tablets, as well as the merits of Samsung’s counterclaims of patent infringement by Apple. Here is what the jurors decided, point by point.
698 2012-08-26 All of this has given designers and engineers a fast-forward button advancing this technological flip-flop.

“Something that once took three months to make now takes less than a month,” explained Andre Yousefi, co-founder of Lime Lab, a product development firm based in San Francisco that works with start-ups to create hardware products. “With 3-D printers, you can now create almost disposable prototypes,” he said. “You queue it up at night, pick it up in the morning and can throw it away by 11 a.m.”

The rapidly falling cost of building computer-based gadgets has touched off a wave of innovation that is starting to eclipse the software-driven world that came to dominate the Valley in the dot-com boom of the late 1990s.

“If we look hard over the last 10 or 15 years, people don’t realize how different the world is now compared to 1996,” said Sean O’Sullivan, a venture capitalist who splits his time between the United States, Ireland and China. “Products like the iPhone have driven down the cost of components. You can now easily make connected devices that transform lives in the way we have only been able to do with software before.”

To prove his point, Mr. O’Sullivan recently took teams from nine small start-up companies to Shenzhen, China, for 111 days in which each group developed and began manufacturing new products. He calls his investment firm, based in San Francisco, Haxlr8r (pronounced hak-CEL-erator), and in June the first group of fast-to-market hardware products was unveiled. The companies included Shaka, which makes a simple device for measuring wind for sailboard and kite surfers, and Kindara, maker of an iPhone accessory to help women determine when they are ovulating. (The system automatically generates a text message to the husband at the appropriate time.) There is also Bilibot, a project to build an inexpensive open-source robot.

THE shift away from the Valley’s obsession with dot-com services and Web-based social networks is a return to the region’s roots. The Valley began as a center for electronics hardware design in the late 1930s, when Bill Hewlett and David Packard built an audio oscillator that Walt Disney used in the production of the movie “Fantasia.” At the start of the 1970s, the label Silicon Valley was coined because of the proliferation of semiconductor companies. In the mid-1970s, a group of computer hardware hobbyists started the Homebrew Computer Club here, which gave rise to several dozen start-ups, including Apple Computer.

Today some of the most successful hardware start-ups in Silicon Valley have been formed from the diaspora of former Apple employees who want to try their hand at companies that pair hardware and software — which is an integral part of Apple’s DNA.

Tony Fadell, a former Apple executive who led the design teams on the iPod and iPhone, recently started a company called Nest, which makes a beautifully designed smart thermostat for the home. It is one of the hit home electronics products of the year. Hugo Fiennes, the Apple hardware manager for the first four iPhones, started a company called Electric Imp, which plans to connect everyday objects, like wall outlets and household appliances, to the Internet.

And Andy Rubin, who now heads Google’s Android phone business, worked as an Apple engineer before leaving to help create a series of start-ups, the most recent of which was acquired by Google in 2005. The Android software, tightly integrated into smartphones, has come to rival that of Apple’s iPhone.

Hosain Rahman, C.E.O. of Jawbone, a hardware start-up that makes slick Bluetooth speaker systems and headsets, said Apple’s influence on design set a standard for who could enter the hardware start-up world. “The bar for great hardware experiences has been set so high by our friends in Cupertino,” he said, referring to Apple’s home. “They’ve raised the overall goodness of hardware.”

“You can come up with a new concept or idea and you can really efficiently figure out if it’s a viable product,” Mr. Rahman said. “Now you can test a lot of ideas for a lot less capital and intensity.” But, he warned, “the scaling and supply chain, marketing and distribution is still quite hard.”

Yet even distribution has been simplified by technology. Online marketplaces like Etsy, Amazon and Google’s Marketplace allow people to set up shop on any street corner of the Web and begin hawking their latest hardware ideas.

Because of the excitement around hardware, start-ups in New York and Silicon Valley are now vying for venture capital investments. Electric Imp recently closed an $8 million financing round from big-name venture firms. LittleBits, a New York company, just signed a deal for $3.65 million in financing to start mass-producing its tiny tech toys. Mr. Yousefi’s company, Lime Lab, was acquired this year by PCH International, headquartered in Cork, Ireland. PCH is a manufacturer that works with start-ups and technology companies in Silicon Valley to build hardware products that just a decade ago would have cost millions of dollars and years to realize.

Liam Casey, founder and chief executive of PCH International, said the ease of making hardware prototypes had contributed to the rise of a new genre of financing with Kickstarter, a Web site that has raised impressive sums for a number of hardware start-ups. Entrepreneurs pitch their idea on the site and ask for donations — often promising the product, or at least a promotional T-shirt, for the cash.

“The money has always been the barrier for hardware,” Mr. Casey said, “and by showing the amount of interest from consumers, start-ups can now create a space that makes V.C.’s feel comfortable investing in their hardware project.”

Ouya, an open-source game console for the television built using Google Android, just raised more than $8 million through Kickstarter. Pebble, the smartwatch that connects to iPhone and Android smartphones, raised more than $10 million after asking for just $100,000.

THE collapsing cost of hardware can be seen in its revival of a hobbyist ethos in the so-called Maker subculture. That ethos is thriving on the easy availability of low-cost computers and sensors.

One of the best examples of that movement is a full-blown $25 computer system the size of a credit card. Designed by a small team led by Eben Upton, a chip designer at Broadcom, the computer is known as Raspberry Pi, and the Valley’s hobbyists and start-up fans have seized on it as a breakthrough in innovation. So far, 100,000 computers have been sold, and the Raspberry Pi Foundation is making 4,000 daily — enough to reach almost 1.5 million dreamers in a year.

When Raspberry Pi is almost as cheap as a raspberry pie, the impact on future hardware development will be profound. “People are using this as a catalyst to get new designs to the market more quickly,” said Kevin Yapp, chief of marketing and strategy for Element 14, an international online community for engineers backing the project.

Stewart Brand said that information like software “wants to be free,” said Mr. O’Sullivan, the venture capitalist. “Now hardware is almost as cheap as software.”
699 2012-08-26 In fact, for the next two hours, zingers and chuckles came fast and furious.

“Why don’t you take that question about cheating in college football, Bob?” Phillip Nelson, a Georgia graduate, said to his colleague Robert Norman. “You went to Auburn.”

When Brown offered that he rarely missed a Georgia Tech game, Holt Vinson, the resident Alabama graduate, countered, “You guys play on Wednesday nights; there’s nothing else to do.”

The games may be played primarily on Saturday, but the battles around the proverbial water coolers rage all week, and not just in the heart of SEC country.

They grumble about the “stinking Badgers” and wolf “Go, Blue” in the office towers of Chicago, where the Big Ten faithful land in great numbers. What they call Ohio State fans is unprintable. In the Petroleum Clubs of Texas, the one sure way to get the oilmen to stop talking about all their hard work and failure is to bring up the Longhorns, the Aggies or the Red Raiders.

Look back at the long line of recruiting scandals involving boosters, and more often than not, a scheme will have been hatched because said booster was “sick and tired of losing” to (insert name of hated rival).

In 2010, the deep-seated enmity between the Alabama and Auburn fans prompted a suspected act of ecoterrorism. Two 130-year-old live oaks at Toomer’s Corner in Auburn, Ala. — considered sacred ground to those partial to Auburn — were poisoned, apparently in the name of the Alabama football icon Bear Bryant.

“These are the same people who erected a Nick Saban statue after he won one in a row,” Norman said to Vinson, his colleague from the University of Alabama, referring to the statue of the Crimson Tide’s current football coach outside Bryant-Denny Stadium.

No matter their education, good humor and confidence in the fact that they are rational beings, from time to time, something about college football pokes through their better selves.

Geoff Gober recalled his irritation when needled by his colleagues about the news that the running back for his beloved Georgia, Isaiah Crowell — an all-SEC selection last season as a freshman — was kicked off the team in June after being arrested on weapons charges.

“You hear about it immediately, and it drives you crazy,” he said.

Nelson, his fellow Bulldog, groped for the right words.

“No matter how irrational it sounds, you really hate losing,” he said. “There’s a little voice that says Alabama beat me and there’s a guy in red overalls across the way that is very happy.”

John Schlichting is so true to Florida State that he cannot root for fellow A.C.C. teams like Miami or Clemson, even when they are playing teams representing his SEC tormentors.

“I want them all to go 0-12,” he said.

Brown is the most tempered of the group, perhaps because Georgia Tech has been more consistent in turning out top-flight engineers than in finding success in big-time college football. Still, he must remind himself, “I am not going to let 18- to 22-year-old boys determine if I’m going to have a bad weekend.”

All have grown accustomed to scandal at their own universities and across college football. This off-season has been one of particular discontent because of the conviction of Jerry Sandusky for sexual abuse of young boys and the revelations that Penn State and its iconic coach, Joe Paterno, could have, and should have, done more to stop him.

“It just sort of feels nasty,” Nelson said.

On top of that, the money grab that was conference realignment has rankled each and every one of them. They understand the sport is a multibillion-dollar business that lards the broadcast networks, universities and coaches. Everyone profits but the players.

“They pulled back that thin veneer that hid the fact that college football was a cash machine,” Brown said.

They are romantics, however, as well as realists about college football, which aligns them with the vast majority of the United States. Look no further than the millions of people who fill stadiums from California to Connecticut, from Ann Arbor to Knoxville, and the television ratings for college football that show the tens of millions who tune in each week.

When that first kickoff takes flight, the multitudes of faithful will do what Schlichting and his colleagues do — forget college football’s imperfections and pull for their team and their personal bragging rights.

“I’ll be absorbed as I always am,” he said. “It’s important to me, and the great thing about college football is that it is easy to suspend belief and have faith.”
700 2012-08-26 Some technology stocks are indeed rewarding their investors with sizable dividends (“Finding Dividends in Unusual Places,” Fundamentally, Aug. 19). To me, this represents the maturation of these stocks from a speculative to an investment-grade opportunity.

Of course, some tech companies want to keep plowing their earnings back into their operations, and some don’t have the profits to even consider paying dividends. But when many investors see a dividend-paying tech stock, they may be more likely to have confidence in the company and its future growth. We should welcome the coming-of-age of such stocks.
701 2012-08-26 Radinsky grew up in California and was a third-round pick out of Simi Valley High School in 1986. That is a normal enough baseball profile, but Radinsky truly stood apart as a baseball lifer. Try to imagine other veteran arm gurus — Dave Duncan, for instance — taking on side careers as a punk-rock singer and skateboard-park owner, both of which are part of the Radinsky résumé.

In fact, as he prepared for that night’s game in glorious summer weather, he stood in both age (44) and attitude as the major leagues’ youngest pitching coach.

But just two days later, Ruben Niebla would inherit Radinsky’s job. Radinsky would be slowly driving home toward Los Angeles.

FRIDAY, AUG. 10 West of Cleveland, near Gary, Ind., Radinsky did not need Interstate 80 to clear his mind. Speaking on a phone to the same reporter with whom he had sat on Tuesday, he sounded neither angry nor consumed by self-pity over being fired 111 games into his first season as pitching coach. A quarter-century in professional baseball has inoculated him to its fickleness. Coaches sprout calluses, too.

Manager Manny Acta had interrupted Radinsky’s breakfast on Thursday to summon him to a noon meeting. Radinsky stepped into Acta’s office and saw General Manager Chris Antonetti sitting there. The gig was up.

An Indians affiliation that began with Radinsky’s final major league pitches in 2001 had suddenly ended. Acta and Antonetti shook Radinsky’s hand, wishing him well. Radinsky asked a clubhouse attendant to ship personal items from his locker, then returned to his apartment.

“We’re going to find a new team,” Radinsky said he told his son.

“Oh, cool. Can I still like the Indians?” the boy said.

“Well, what’s the new team going to be?”

“I don’t know yet, buddy, but we’ll find out soon.”

“I’m totally fine, man,” Radinsky said as he talked on the phone. “I’ve never really been through this situation before.” But, he added, “I know how it works.”

He was driving alone. His family — his wife, Darlenys, the sister-in-law of Ozzie Guillen, a former Radinsky teammate; and his three children — had flown back to California from Cleveland, leaving him time to think, talk, look ahead. In other words, to be Radinsky, which is to be calm and introspective, almost beatific.

He said that he would ponder his employment options when other jobs opened after the season and that he wanted to remain in baseball. But crossing into Illinois, he had no schedule. He figured he would reach his home in Thousand Oaks within five days. But if musician friends in Denver were playing when he passed through, he might pull up a chair and linger.

“I loved it,” Radinsky continued, thinking about Cleveland. “I was surrounded by awesome baseball people. I made some good relationships.”

He said he was happy about closer Chris Perez’s two All-Star selections, Vinnie Pestano’s emergence “into one of the best setup guys in baseball” and the ex-Met Joe Smith’s career turnaround. Rising as a coach through the minors alongside left-handed reliever Tony Sipp and witnessing Sipp’s development was “the most gratifying thing in the world,” he said.

Radinsky taught pitchers “to trust in your stuff” rather than work to hitters’ weaknesses. Derek Lowe, who pitched for Cleveland this season before joining the Yankees, said, “That’s the biggest thing he tried to instill in us.” Lowe added: “He’s not a big numbers guy. We didn’t have a lot of meetings. I respected that.”

Two days before Radinsky was fired, Acta and the Indians’ president, Mark Shapiro, had lauded his competitiveness, communication skills and optimism in separate interviews. They admired Radinsky’s fortitude as someone who battled cancer while pitching for the Chicago White Sox in the 1990s.

But by then, Radinsky’s fate was probably sealed.

SUNDAY, AUG. 12 By Saturday, Radinsky had reached the Rockies. By now, he had nearly traversed Utah.

In another phone conversation, he said the cross-country drive home reminded him of concert tours he had taken as the lead singer with bands called Scared Straight, Ten Foot Pole and Pulley, his current group.

Pulley operates around baseball’s off-season and everyone else’s day job: airplane mechanic, parks department employee and crew member for another band. In high school, the band Radinsky formed eventually kicked him out early in his baseball career because he was not around enough. Now, of course, that would not be a problem.

Radinsky was happy to have a reporter tag along telephonically. Passing Illinois cornfields on Friday, he had mentioned “Field of Dreams.” His cinematic association on Sunday was “Cobb,” about the aging former Tiger’s transcontinental drive with the ghostwriter Al Stump.

Radinsky’s first major league manager was Jeff Torborg, who in his own telephone interview remembered him as “a young, aggressive athlete,” a “raw, strong, hard-throwing kid — a free spirit.”

He said Radinsky’s life “really changed” when he contracted non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, missed the 1994 season and helped coach his high school team. “I didn’t think he’d want to stay in the game — his interests were so wide,” Torborg said. “He was never afraid. You could take him into Yankee Stadium and have him face Don Mattingly, and it would not faze him.”

MONDAY, AUG. 13 Ninety minutes from home, Radinsky said he had to shake his head at the way things had turned out. Before he was fired, his family had planned to fly home from Cleveland and then rejoin him as the Indians traveled to California to play the Angels and the Athletics. Now they would all stay put in Thousand Oaks.

But he insisted he was not feeling down as his sudden joblessness sank in. “Everything that happens is just kind of a leap on the lily pad, just another steppingstone,” he said in that fallback reflective mode of his. “Everybody moves on, everybody finds their place. That’s why life’s not a mystery.”

His earlier-than-expected off-season routine meant a three-school car pool; daily visits to Skatelab, his skating park with its own hall of fame; and band practice on Monday and Thursday nights.

Radinsky grew up using a skateboard as a means of transportation. “We’d go everywhere,” he said. “When you’re kids, it’s freedom.”

In the mid-1990s, his band played a concert in an indoor skateboard park. Which got him thinking. Less than a year later, he and a friend had opened their own and then attached a museum to it. And now it had more than 4,000 items, including Radinsky’s old skateboards.

“I can either be at the beach tonight and watch the sun go down, or have a barbecue in my backyard. I haven’t quite decided which it’s going to be,” he said as he neared his house. In some ways, it sounded better than watching the Indians.

TUESDAY, AUG. 21 Radinsky’s first week back home ended up including both the beach and barbecues and singing into a towel to exercise his vocal cords before band practice.

Family time had its limits, though. Radinsky decided to skip an outing at Dodger Stadium, saying he did not want to attend games, at least not yet.

But baseball was not far away. Radinsky said he was “waiting to see” what jobs would open up and that he would “absolutely look for a major league job first.”

“If I get fortunate to land one of those, I’ll pick up where I left off,” he added. “I got four months to do what I prepared myself eight years to do. Four months.”

He would like more.
702 2012-08-26 The company’s survival mantra calls for expansion in the international, video, social and mobile spheres. What is so exceptional and surprising to me, a career veteran of long wars between newspapers’ business and newsroom camps, is how thoroughly The Times’s newsroom appears to have bought in to this strategy.

No doubt, the mortal threat is clear enough now to be a motivator. But for journalists at The Times, the opportunity to flood the Web with content is a compelling one in its own right. Encouraged by the company to exploit social media, many Times journalists have become extraordinarily prodigious publishers on , some with thousands of posts to their .

Consider this sign of the froth that surrounds social media: A few weeks ago on , a Times editor conducted a serious video interview with a BuzzFeed writer about the day Twitter was down for an hour or two — and the political, journalistic and (dare I extrapolate?) metaphysical implications thereof.

The emphasis on social and mobile media means that Times material appears far from the home base of , not to mention the distant shores of the Old Country, print. For journalists, this presents tantalizing new opportunities to build a personal audience, while for the company it is a way to follow readers where they are going.

The result is an oddly disaggregated New York Times of hyper-engaged journalists building their own brands, and company content flung willy-nilly into the ether.

Observing this dynamic, I responded with columns emphasizing that, as the digital transformation proceeds, The Times should more forcefully communicate its brand values — its high standards, commitment to accountability, etc. — by publishing those standards more prominently and communicating directly with readers on an reader portal of some kind. Fortifying core beliefs and expressing them, I believe, secures the anchor in a time of change like this. It reinforces those standards to the staff and gives the reader reasons to trust The Times.

Two years ago, when I wrote my “why on earth” column, I suggested that the pace of change called for a re-emphasis on “transparency, accountability, humility.” Looking back now, I think The Times could do better with these.

The Times is hardly transparent. A reader still has to work very hard to find any Times policies online (though some are tucked away there), and there is still no place where Times editors speak on the issues. As for humility, well, The Times is Lake Wobegon on (everybody’s way above average). I don’t remember many autopsies in which, as we assembled over the body, anyone conceded that maybe this could have been done differently.

The strong suit, though, is the corrections desk, led by Greg Brock, where thousands of errors are somehow adjudicated every year. This is a powerful engine of accountability, unmatched by any other corrections operation I have seen, and a potential foundation element for a portal where The Times could prominently display “transparency, accountability, humility.”

I also noted two years ago that I had taken up the public editor duties believing “there is no conspiracy” and that The Times’s output was too vast and complex to be dictated by any Wizard of Oz-like individual or cabal. I still believe that, but also see that the hive on Eighth Avenue is powerfully shaped by a culture of like minds — a phenomenon, I believe, that is more easily recognized from without than from within.

When The Times covers a national presidential campaign, I have found that the lead editors and reporters are disciplined about enforcing fairness and balance, and usually succeed in doing so. Across the paper’s many departments, though, so many share a kind of political and cultural progressivism — for lack of a better term — that this worldview virtually bleeds through the fabric of The Times.

As a result, developments like the Occupy movement and gay marriage seem almost to erupt in The Times, overloved and undermanaged, more like causes than news subjects.

Stepping back, I can see that as the digital transformation proceeds, as The Times disaggregates and as an empowered staff finds new ways to express itself, a kind of Times Nation has formed around the paper’s political-cultural worldview, an audience unbound by geography (as distinct from the old days of print) and one that self-selects in digital space.

It’s a huge success story — it is hard to argue with the enormous size of Times Nation — but one that carries risk as well. A just-released survey found that The Times’s “believability rating” had dropped drastically among Republicans compared with Democrats, and was an almost-perfect mirror opposite of ’s rating. Can that be good?

“Why on earth would you want this job?” The answer is: I thought two years ago it would be interesting, and two years later, I can say that it certainly was.

And one final note: many thanks to Joseph Burgess, my assistant, who ably helped me fulfill the duties of the public editor.
703 2012-08-26 By one estimate, as many as 250,000 patents can be used to claim ownership of some technical or design element in a smartphone. Each patent is potentially a license to sue.

Samsung says it will challenge the jury’s decision, which covered design basics like the shape of the iPhone itself and its array of small on-screen icons. So the courtroom conflict could continue for years, and even then, the case is but one of dozens of suits and countersuits in 10 countries between Apple and Samsung, the world’s two leading smartphone makers.

But Apple has more than Samsung in its sights in its litigation campaign against the Korean electronics giant. Samsung is the leader among companies using Google’s Android mobile operating system. So while Apple may be suing Samsung in courtrooms from Germany to Australia, the real enemy is up the road from Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., at the Googleplex in Mountain View.

Ultimately, the Apple-Samsung roadshow is just the main attraction in the global smartphone patent wars. The roster of litigants includes Microsoft, Nokia, HTC, Google’s Motorola Mobility subsidiary and others.

In a recent case between Apple and Motorola, Judge Richard A. Posner, a prominent federal appeals court judge in Chicago, said in court that the use of patents in the smartphone industry showed a system in “chaos.” In June, Judge Posner dismissed the case, chastising both sides. He heaped scorn on Apple’s broad claims for its user-experience patents and on Motorola’s claim that Apple should pay a rich royalty on its basic communications patents. Both companies have appealed.

The disputes are fueled, legal experts say, by companies rushing to apply for patents as both defensive and offensive weapons, and by overburdened government examiners granting patents too easily.

“The smartphone patent battles are enabled by lots of trivial patents that never should have been granted in the first place,” said James E. Bessen, a patent expert and lecturer at the Boston University School of Law. “That’s where Judge Posner was coming from in his ruling.”

To the winners of the patent wars, the rewards will be rich. Mobile computing, or smartphones and tablets, is the most lucrative and fastest-growing market in business. It has made Apple the most valuable company in the world. As Samsung passed Apple in the last year to become the largest smartphone maker, its profits surged along with its sales.

Despite the hostilities, experts say the smartphone patent wars will eventually end in an industrial armistice.

The California court decision, if it holds up on appeal, could have that effect. “This ruling sends a message to all the handset makers that you have to make truly differentiated products that look different,” said Colleen V. Chien, an assistant professor at the Santa Clara University School of Law. “And that’s the message Apple wanted to send with its litigation.”

Most legal experts thought Apple would have the most trouble winning infringement judgments on its design patents, which are generally considered weaker than engineering patents for hardware or software, known as utility patents.

But the jury found that Samsung infringed on three of the four design patents in the case. The fourth was a patent for shape of a tablet computer — a rectangle with rounded corners.

“This could open up a whole new front in the patent wars, as companies race to file applications for design patents,” said Kevin G. Rivette, a Silicon Valley consultant and former vice president of intellectual property strategy for I.B.M.

Yet Mr. Rivette is convinced that the smartphone patent wars will subside and an accommodation will be reached. The sheer number of smartphone patents and the speed of innovation in product development undermine the power of the patents. That is very different than the role patents play in an industry like pharmaceuticals, where a blockbuster drug may be covered by a single patent or a few. In chemistry, the molecule is the patentable idea.

Smartphones are very different. An infringement ruling can slow a rival down for a few months, but not block it. Samsung engineers, for example, have already devised an alternative to one of the patents found to have been infringed upon in the California decision — the “bounce” feature. Pull a finger from the top of the iPhone’s touch screen to the bottom and the page bounces. On the newest Samsung smartphones, the same downward finger stroke brings a blue glow at the bottom on the touch screen, not a bounce.

“In this industry, patents are not a clean weapon to stop others,” Mr. Rivette said. “The technology, like water, will find its way around impediments.”
704 2012-08-26 But by the ’50s, hockey was starting to be dominated by sturdier, more physical types, like Gordie Howe, Jean Beliveau and Bobby Hull, and the days of small, reedy stars like Raleigh were ending.

Still, he was beloved by Rangers fans.

“Bones Raleigh was the quintessential antihero,” said the hockey historian and commentator Stan Fischler, who was a teenager when Raleigh’s goals won two overtime games during the Rangers’ seven-game loss to Detroit in the 1950 Stanley Cup finals.

“He was an intellectual; he would write poetry on the Staten Island Ferry,” Fischler said. “He would get the puck behind his net and just wend his way up ice on spectacular rushes. Problem was, Bones being so skinny, by the time he got inside the enemy zone, he was usually body checked. But we didn’t mind because he was our guy.”

Raleigh was 17 when he made his N.H.L. debut on Oct. 30, 1943, and played 15 games before a broken jaw from an errant stick ended his season prematurely. He left to serve in the Canadian armed forces and returned in 1947 for 9 more seasons and 101 regular-season goals with the Rangers, his entire N.H.L. career.

“You couldn’t hit him,” said Chuck Scherza, who played alongside Raleigh on the wartime Rangers. “He was fast, a great skater and he could stickhandle so well. I knew he’d make it.”

By the time Raleigh returned to the Rangers, he had attended college in his native Manitoba, exceedingly rare for a hockey player in those days. At one point, he lived on Staten Island, but through much of his Rangers tenure, he lived at the Belvedere Hotel, a block from the old Madison Square Garden on Eighth Avenue between West 49th and 50th Streets, where many of the Rangers lived.

“He liked the New York life,” his son, Jack, remembered. “He said that for a while, he could walk down the street and be asked for autographs, dated a fair number of women. He enjoyed all that. He said it was quite a thrill to be famous in New York City.”

Andy Bathgate, who, like his fellow Rangers rookie Howell, went on to a Hall of Fame career, said: “Don was always reading high-performance books — we didn’t know what the heck they were about. Being 20 years old, we weren’t into his way of life. We were just trying to get on the ice. We were young bucks — we had straw coming out our ears.”

“Old Bones Raleigh, he used to be our cook in the hotel,” Howell said. “He used to buy the groceries, and we’d pay him. One night, he gave a huge can of peaches to the players, and we thought, Boy, this is really something. So Bones, before we ate the peaches, said, ‘Now you guys realize you each have to give me 12 cents per peach.’ We all knew what he was like and just laughed.”

Howell remembered Raleigh’s going to Manhattan clubs to see musicians. Lund remembered his organizing the Rangers for an off-day tour of the Ford plant in Detroit. Both also recalled him as a dedicated player who convened his teammates at the Belvedere for pregame strategy talks, a quality that helped elevate him to the Rangers captaincy from 1953 to 1955.

But by then, hockey had changed. The ice was painted white for television, glass had replaced the chicken wire, and the emphasis under the new Rangers’ coach, Phil Watson, was being revised away from finesse, as it was throughout the game.

“Watson wanted us to be physical and run around and hit people and get hit,” Raleigh said in 2006. “That wasn’t for me, so after 1955-56, I left.”

Howell said: “We were all disappointed when he left. He’d been our mentor for a couple of years.”

Raleigh played and coached for two more seasons, then retired from hockey at 32 and started a successful career back home in Winnipeg in the insurance business.

But even decades later, Raleigh still loved the kind of hockey he liked to play, the finesse game that the N.H.L. had long since abandoned.

“Even when my dad was well into his 50s, he liked to go down to the corner rink, and everyone there would ask, ‘Who’s this old geezer?’ ” Raleigh’s son said. “And he’d take the puck away, skate circles around them, and never give it back.”
705 2012-08-26 LIKE most actresses in New York, Glennis McCarthy, 33, has to juggle callbacks and performances with her day job. But unlike most actresses Ms. McCarthy has a day job that involves keeping her peers united, inspired and working. She is the brains behind Gorgeous Ladies of Comedy, or GLOC. It began as a blog just under two years ago and, under Ms. McCarthy’s tireless hand, has bloomed into an informal society of New York’s brightest comediennes. Kristen Schaal, of “30 Rock” and “The Daily Show,” the actress Kristen Johnston and the stand-up star Tig Notaro have all performed at its events or lent advice on the blog.

GLOC has regular stand-up shows (GLOC Live!) and open-mikes (GLOC the MIC) throughout the city; a recently begun podcast series (GLOC Talk); and an online resource center that guides fledgling comediennes through producing a show, designing a logo inexpensively and other start-up processes. Now Ms. McCarthy is venturing into GLOC-branded original videos.

Ms. McCarthy spoke with Megan Angelo about the New York comedy scene, her dreams of an entertainment empire and the women-aren’t-funny theory. These are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. How did you become part of the New York comedy scene?

A. I moved to New York when I was 19, on my own, no help from the family. I wanted to be on Broadway, but I quickly realized you really need to be trained. I fled the scene and started doing short-form improv.

Q. What pushed you to chase your dreams without a day job?

A. I worked at a law firm for eight years, in H.R. Every idea I came up with was too weird, not P.C. enough. Before I walked out of there the last day, I wrote an e-mail to the whole office, saying, “I’m going to find my bike, like Pee-wee Herman.”
706 2012-08-26 I was 7 years old, and it was 1955. My mother had just gone to Old Man Winter’s Thrift Shop in Buffalo and returned with a Pierre Balmain suit (!) that she got for $8 to wear on Easter. The following Sunday, after spending six days deciding how to accessorize, I donned the suit, the straw cloche, white gloves, lipstick (no rouge!) and her size 6 low heels. Then I hit the street, parading up and down Weston Avenue, where many Italian families lived and who were either howling or trying to lift their jaws from the floor or just blink, but who oddly seemed to accept me exactly for who I was. Is there less tolerance nowadays? It would seem to me that this is so. These parents are doing everything they can, in such a touching and loving way, to make their children happy with who they are. STEVEN GOURNAY, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Maybe clothing for boys is just too dull and restrictive. In the 17th and 18th centuries, men’s clothing was colorful and tight and elaborate. And sometimes pink. Men and women wore beautiful jewelry. Maybe these boys are trying to tell us that our current version of masculinity is dull. MARCY LERNER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

Negotiations over when a parent washes a 3-year-old’s favorite outfit (regardless of gender appropriateness)? Paying for staff training at your kid’s school to better understand your child? “Overindulgent” doesn’t even begin to cover it. ROSE L. ORR, London, Ontario , posted on nytimes.com

If women had real power, no one — parent or otherwise — would blink an eye at a young boy who chose to dress up as one. COLIN BERRY, Los Angeles

As open-minded as I think I am, I must admit I probably would have been taken aback if one of my kid’s male classmates came to school in a dress. At least before last Sunday. Your article provided something quite valuable: the opportunity to see an issue in a new light. SUZY DEYOUNG, Newtown, Conn.

Dresses are bad play clothes for children of any gender. ANN HODGMAN, Washington, Conn.

[Sarah Hepola’s Riff column on Cat Marnell] seems to get at a point I made a while back that the same habit of addiction that drives a person to return again and again to the drug of his or her choice may have found a parallel in the reward-and-shame cycle of writing about oneself. Whether people praise or condemn or just keep writing about you . . . there’s still an itch being scratched there. Marnell wrote, ‘‘Why does a person have to have resolved their drug issues in order to be allowed to write about them?’’ which is a totally fair question. She doesn’t have to have resolved anything to write whatever she wants to. But it changes how we read her story, and how we feel about doing so. JEN DOLL, posted on The Atlantic Wire

So much of women’s media is geared around how to be better, more perfect, improve everything about yourself. There is something refreshing, and necessary, about discussing flaws. CORYNNE CIRILLI, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com
707 2012-08-26 On a recent rainy Friday afternoon at the studio, Mr. Yaguchi, 44, explained that the meticulous attention to detail needed to do origami well was second nature in Japan, where folding begins very early. “I found that for Americans, folding the paper precisely is difficult,” he said, “so I tried to find a way to make them origami folders.”

He developed a program that maps out 34 kinds of folds, divided into six levels that students move through — modeled on the belt system in martial arts — with a colored bracelet for each. Mr. Yaguchi, who still lives in Philadelphia, said the Park Slope business was “a lab” where he can refine his system.

Later that afternoon, Caroline Mulcahy, 6, came in from the rain with her mother, who was headed to the nail salon next door. She picked out a pink piece of paper and, led by the teacher, Ben Friesen, 29, she made a series of creases and then blew it up into a bunny box. Next, she fashioned a frog that could hop.

“I really like art,” she said, “and origami is an art thing.”

A few days later, Gus Vandersteen, 6, was hard at work at the drop-in table — with his grandmother’s help — on a fire engine. He was following instructions on a digital tablet loaded with animated lessons created by Mr. Yaguchi for use in the studio.

“This gets tricky,” he said while trying to fix a faulty fold, adding that the truck would make a great toy, as do his paper ninja stars.

During a group lesson later in the day, Mr. Friesen guided five children ages 3 to 6 through the 15 steps of making a peacock.

“Nice and precise,” he said as he modeled a crisp fold, everyone working intently. Then they moved on to a samurai hat.

“It’s a cool thing to do with paper,” said Stella Jattne, also 6, who was there for her weekly lesson with her 4-year-old brother, Hudson.

So far, the studio has attracted a few dozen regular and semiregular students, with numbers rising as word gets out.

Most of the paper folders are in the single-digit age range, but a few adults do pop in, like Shelley Rauchberg, 68, a retired photographer from the neighborhood.

After struggling with origami books, she came across the studio last year and started private lessons, developing her technique to the point where she could fold her favorite animals: dinosaurs, insects and dragons.

“It just took the whole thing to another level for me,” Ms. Rauchberg said, “which is what I was looking for.”
708 2012-08-26 To help with their move, I.B.M. connected them with Dianne Howard and Rebecca Mirkin of the Corcoran Group. Ms. John and Mr. Pelton, both in their mid-50s, wanted to buy a two-bedroom on the Upper West Side, from which it’s an easy drive to Ms. John’s office. Of course, any building they bought into had to allow the dogs.

Mabel weighs over 150 pounds. She is slightly smaller than Gulliver, who is still growing. They both dwarf Lily, a 45-pound English setter, whom the couple adopted in an attempt to downsize.

Few buildings were sufficiently dog-loving to permit three dogs, Ms. Howard warned them.

“Good!” Ms. John exclaimed, looking on the bright side. No need to wade through an overwhelming number of options.

On an early hunting trip, looking at places from $1.5 million to $2 million, the couple liked everything. If anything, places were too nice. At a high-rise condo on Columbus Avenue, a $1.9 million two-bedroom had a lovely view north. “It made us feel too ostentatious,” Ms. John said. “We could have this kind of view every day and it would be awesome, but maybe a little too awesome for us.”

A magnificent duplex in the West 90s, listed for $1.85 million, had an interior staircase with open treads — which they knew Mabel would be afraid of. “I said, if we get this place, she is going to stay on one floor,” Ms. John said. “You can’t force a mastiff to go where it doesn’t want to go” — nor can you carry it. (The duplex sold for $1.69 million.)

Some places included a small third bedroom. “We didn’t know what we would do with it,” Mr. Pelton said. “We didn’t want a room just for stuff.”

The couple decided to drop their price to $1 million to $1.5 million. “We got all our spreadsheets and budgets” and decided “we don’t want to be watching our pennies because we put everything into the house,” Ms. John explained. Nevertheless, they still liked half the properties they saw.

Last winter they started hunting seriously. Around this time, the Squirrel Hill house sold for $495,000.

They soon discovered that dog-friendliness had its limits. Surprisingly, “it was not the size that was the biggest obstacle,” Ms. Herman said. “It was the number of dogs.”

In the case of a new building with a two-dog limit, the couple provided a notarized letter saying that when one dog died they would not replace it. But the building’s policy was unbendable.

On Central Park West near the north end of the park, a two-bedroom condo had park views and great light.

“They were initially a little concerned they were not in the heart of the Upper West Side,” Ms. Mirkin said. “There’s always a bit of a trade-off. If you’re close to the park, you are not going to have every single cafe on your doorstep.”

The listing price was $1.095 million, monthly charges around $1,100. Their offer of $1.045 million was accepted. They thought they had thoroughly investigated the dog situation but alas, a third dog was taboo, and the purchase fell through. (The place later sold for $975,000.)

Another option arose in a condo building on the far West 80s, near Riverside Park. The ground-floor duplex included a yard.

Their offer of the asking price, $995,000, was accepted. Monthly charges were in the mid-$1,800s.

“I read 168 pages of house rules and there was nothing in there that said a two-dog limit,” Ms. John said. But apparently the rules had been changed, and that, too, fell through.

They soon came upon another ground-floor duplex in a small brownstone, this one a co-op, in the West 70s. The asking price was $1.295 million, with monthly maintenance in the mid-$1,200s.

The listing agent, Stuart Moss of the Corcoran Group, often sold in the building, and confirmed its pet-friendly nature: he’d known of a household with three dogs. This time, their purchase went through easily. They paid $1.235 million and moved in earlier this summer.

They are still unpacking, horrified at how much stuff they have, after spending months giving things away. Now, said Mr. Pelton, who works from home, they wouldn’t mind having that third bedroom after all.

They walk the dogs three times a day in Central Park. In Pittsburgh, the walk was a quiet one through the woods. “Occasionally you would see a deer,” Mr. Pelton said. “Here, every day is interesting and different.”

The mastiffs stay leashed even during off-lead hours. Lily, a hunting dog, needs to run. So off she goes, while “the mastiffs and humans are plodding along,” Ms. John said. “Everybody gets breed-appropriate exercise.”

Tourists love them. “We know ‘can we take your dogs’ picture?’ in every language,” Ms. John said.
709 2012-08-26 When generals prepare to “fight the last war,” as the saying goes, they’re bound to be surprised by new enemies deploying new tactics over new terrain. On the evidence of Bruce Bawer’s fighting-mad book, “The Victims’ Revolution: The Rise of Identity Studies and the Closing of the Liberal Mind,” this rule holds true for the academic culture wars as well.

Bawer is a refugee from the academy. He earned a Ph.D. in English in the 1980s and made his mark in 1993 with a sensitive and forward-looking book, “A Place at the Table: The Gay Individual in American Society.” It was an eloquent call for gay people to stand up against those on the political and religious right who judged them unfit for full citizenship, as well as against those on the academic left who insisted that to be proudly “queer” one must be “transgressive and oppositional” with respect to all cultural norms, and that to be otherwise was to be a sellout and a fraud.

Bawer takes justifiable pride in the contribution he made to the “sea change” that has since taken place for gays in America, most of whom “weren’t the political extremists or sexual subversives that both the antigay right and gay left said we were” — and for whom the United States is a much less hostile place now than it was even 20 years ago. In the late ’90s, he left the country, first for Amsterdam, then for Oslo, where he has continued to write on social and political themes — notably the threat that he believes “radical Islam” poses to the future of Europe.

A couple of years ago, Bawer made a trip home to see what’s happened to the academic world he left behind. He attended a few conferences for women’s studies, black studies, queer studies and Chicano studies, where he heard plenty of cant, as when a participant at a “Fat Studies” conference explained her veganism by declaring: “Dairy is a feminist issue. Milk comes from a grieving mother.” He found, in abundance, what he’s looking for: ­jargon-spewing careerists posing as radicals, semiliterate professors of literature and widespread condemnation of reason itself as a hoax perpetrated by the powerful on the powerless. Based on this sample, he concludes that the contemporary American academy is a place of hypocrisy and fear, where tenured professors proclaim empty solidarity with exploited workers, and Take Back the Night rallies promote the idea that “male students metamorphose, werewolf-like, into potential rapists” every night.

There’s a modicum of truth to this picture — but it’s mostly a caricature. Bawer’s reconnaissance report is out of date. He delivers it with flashes of indignant wit, as when he notes the late queer theorist Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick’s “tendency to insert words like liminal and preterition and alimentative into sentences, much in the manner of a malicious child shoving a stick into the spokes of a moving bicycle. The intent in both cases is the same: to show off — and to throw off.” But this kind of thing is a shrinking sector of academic life, on which, in any event, the generation that came of age in the ’70s and ’80s is ­losing its grip.
710 2012-08-26 As Paul Ryan and Mitt Romney take the stage in Tampa next week, the ghost of an Austrian economist will be hovering above them with an uneasy smile on his face. Ryan has repeatedly suggested that many of his economic ideas were inspired by the work of Friedrich von Hayek, an awkwardly shy (and largely ignored) economist and philosopher who died in 1992. A few years ago, it was probably possible to fit every living Hayekian in a conference room. Regardless of what happens in November, that will no longer be the case.

Hayek’s ideas aren’t completely new to American politics. Some mainstream Republicans, including Ronald Reagan, have name-checked him since at least the 1980s as a shorthand way of signaling their unfettered faith in the free market and objection to big government. But few actually engaged with Hayek’s many contentious (and outré) views, particularly his suspicion of all politicians, including Republicans, who claim to know something about how to make an economy function better. For these reasons, and others, Hayek has become fashionable of late among antigovernment protesters, and if Ryan brings even a watered-down version of his ideas into the Republican mainstream, the country’s biggest battles about the economy won’t be between right and left, but within the Republican Party itself — between Tea Party radicals who may feel legitimized and the establishment politicians they believe stand in their way.

For the past century, nearly every economic theory in the world has emerged from a broad tradition known as neoclassical economics. (Even communism can be seen as a neoclassical critique.) Neoclassicists can be left-wing or right-wing, but they share a set of crucial core beliefs, namely that it is useful to look for government policies that can improve the economy. Hayek and the rest of his ilk — known as the Austrian School — reject this. To an Austrian, the economy is incomprehensibly complex and constantly changing; and technocrats and politicians who claim to have figured out how to use government are deluded or self-interested or worse. According to Hayek, government intervention in the free market, like targeted tax cuts, can only make things worse.

Many of Ryan’s most famous proposals have clear Hayekian roots. His Roadmap for America’s Future includes calls for government to step out and let the market decide. His proposal to allow citizens to buy whatever health insurance they want, rather than use a government-promoted exchange, also seems to be embedded in the Austrian tradition. In other important ways, though, Ryan is anything but Austrian. While Hayek would laugh at an economic forecast for distant 2013, Ryan’s budget plan includes predictions about 2083. The congressman’s proposal for two separate tax systems — a flat-tax system and a loophole-filled tax system — is exactly the sort of contradictory governmental problem-solving that Hayek detested.

In actuality, Ryan is like a lot of politicians who merely cherry-pick Hayek to promote neoclassical policies, says Peter Boettke, an economist at George Mason University and editor of The Review of Austrian Economics. “What Hayek has become, to a lot of people, is an iconic figure representing something that he didn’t believe at all,” Boettke says. For example, despite his complete lack of faith in the ability of politicians to affect the economy, Hayek, who is frequently cited in attacks on entitlement programs, believed that the state should provide a base income to all poor citizens.

To be truly Hayekian, Boettke says, Ryan would need to embrace one of his central ideas, known as the “generality norm.” This is Hayek’s belief that any government program that helps one group must be available to all. If applied, Boettke says, a Hayekian government would eliminate all corporate and agricultural subsidies and government housing programs, and it would get rid of Medicare and Medicaid or expand them to cover all citizens. (Hayek had no problem with a national health care program.) Hayek also believed that the government should not have a monopoly on any service it provides; instead, private companies should compete by offering an alternative Postal Service, road system, even, perhaps, a private fire department.
711 2012-08-26 McCLURE--Douglas Ketcham of Rye, NY, beloved husband of Ruth Lind McClure, died peacefully at home on August 19th. Known for his warmth and keen sense of humor, he loved all that surrounded him. In addition to his wife of 34 years, he is surived b...
712 2012-08-26 DEMIRJIAN--John. Seiji Newman and the entire Newman family extend heartfelt condolences to Alexis, his brother Greg and sister Andrea on the loss of their father....
713 2012-08-26 TUCKED amid New Haven's gritty downtown not far from the well-groomed Yale campus lies the Ninth Square, a district of old red-brick buildings whose storefronts sat mostly vacant for decades. But that has changed in recent years. The opening last ...
714 2012-08-26 GURNEY--Alan Peter, died peacefully on 22nd July 2012 in Woodbridge, Essex, United Kingdom. Much loved husband of Carol, stepfather to Charlie and Matthew....
715 2012-08-27 Credit: Ben Solomon for The New York Times
716 2012-08-27 In Tampa, Op-Ed columnist Charles Blow talks to David Firestone about Paul Ryan’s socially conservative policies and his impact on Mitt Romney’s electoral prospects....
717 2012-08-27 Mitchell Krueger, the highest-ranked American junior player, has decided to skip college and turn professional after the United States Open....
718 2012-08-27 A vivid reminder of the nation's growing debt as Republicans gather in Tampa....
719 2012-08-27 ArtsBeat has the story of Joseph Arthur, whose van, full of vintage amps and paintings, was towed for unpaid tickets and sold to a buyer it won't identify....
720 2012-08-27 A new television ad released by Elizabeth Warren aimed to keep Massachusetts voters' attention on women's issues after Ms. Warren and her Republican opponent, Senator Scott P. Brown, pounced on the rape comments made by Representative Todd Akin of...
721 2012-08-27 A delicious little dish at the United States Open could be even better with a Birra Moretti....
722 2012-08-27 The tennis player Irina Falconi says the United States Open offers plenty of surprises - and comfortable couches....
723 2012-08-27 Apple asked a federal judge to block the sale of more than a half dozen Samsung smartphones, after a jury found that Samsung had infringed a series of Apple's mobile patents....
724 2012-08-27 The average price of U.S. Opem tickets for resale are up 7.6 percent this year compared to the same time last year....
725 2012-08-27 The show, with a book by Berry Gordy Jr. and music from the Mowtown catalog, is scheduled to open at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater on April 14....
726 2012-08-27 Whether it's Facebook stock or our homes, our tendency to let the price we paid for assets become anchors in our minds can be harmful....
727 2012-08-27 Kasey Fechtor joined PJA Advertising and Marketing, Cambridge, Mass., as a planner. She had been an account and project manager at Soldier Design, Cambridge.

Jonathan Forstot joined MiresBall, San Diego, in a new post, director for marketing. He had most recently been director for brand marketing at Taylor Guitars, El Cajon, Calif., a former client of the agency.

Faith Gingold joined Ladies’ Home Journal, New York, part of the Meredith Corporation, as associate publisher for sales. She succeeds Diane Papazian, who became the associate publisher of another Meredith magazine, Family Fun. Ms. Gingold had most recently been Eastern advertising director at Southern Living and southernliving.com, New York, units of the Time Inc. division of Time Warner.

Henkel, the German household and personal care products company, expanded its relationship with Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, by awarding the agency the lead North American creative duties for the Right Guard line of deodorants. Spending has not been determined. The Düsseldorf, Germany, office of TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, which has been the worldwide creative agency for Right Guard, will continue handling those duties outside North America. Red Tettemer & Partners also creates campaigns for Henkel brands like Dial for Men and Renuzit Fresh Accents air fresheners.

Innocean USA, Huntington Beach, Calif., part of Innocean Worldwide, hired three executives for its digital practice. They are Peter Cole, vice president and director for creative technology; Uwe Gutschow, vice president for digital and engagement strategy director; and Lester Perry, vice president for digital account services.

Ben James joined JWT New York as an executive creative director. He had most recently been a creative director and marketing agent at Creative Artists Agency. JWT New York is part of the JWT North America unit of JWT, owned by WPP.

Keith Jose rejoined GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, as director for business development. He succeeds Nancy Ryan, who is leading the agency’s new Walgreens account. Mr. Jose had been director for business development at JWT Atlanta, part of the JWT North America unit of JWT, owned by WPP, and before that was business development supervisor at GSD&M from 2001 to 2007.

Steve Kerho and Doug Rozen joined Meredith Xcelerated Marketing, New York, part of the Meredith Corporation, in new posts. Mr. Kerho becomes senior vice president and chief strategy officer, based in the Los Angeles office; he had been senior vice president for strategy, media and analytics at Organic, part of the Omnicom Group. Mr. Rozen becomes senior vice president and general manager at the Hyperfactory unit of Meredith Xcelerated Media, based in New York; he had been senior vice president and global lead for creative, interactive and media and mobile at Aimia, formerly known as Carlson Marketing Worldwide.

Ron King, vice president at Time Inc. Branded Solutions, based in San Francisco, will move to New York and become associate publisher of a Time Inc. magazine, Southern Living. He succeeds Debbie O’Brien, who resigned, the company said. Time Inc. is owned by Time Warner.

Robert LaPlae joined Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas, in a new post, global president. Mr. LaPlae, who will divide his time between the agency’s Boston and New York offices, had most recently been North American president at McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Moët & Chandon USA, part of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, chose BRPR, Miami, as the first digital agency of record for the United States. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment includes digital ads and work in social media channels.

Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, named McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, as the lead creative agency for the Aussie line of hair care products in North America. The assignment, with spending estimated at more than $10 million, had been handled by Publicis Kaplan Thaler, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, which continues to create campaigns for Procter brands like Bounty, Cascade, Charmin, Crest, Dawn and Swiffer.

R&R Partners, Las Vegas, promoted an employee and hired another. Morgan Baumgartner, based in the Reno office, is being promoted to executive vice president in addition to her duties as corporate counsel; she will serve in a chief operating role, with duties that include overseeing day-to-day management of the agency’s government affairs practice. Jeffrey Butterworth joined the agency, in Las Vegas, as an associate creative director and copywriter; he had been an associate creative director and copywriter at Mering Carson, Sacramento.

Saatchi & Saatchi X opened an office in Cincinnati, to be led by John Yengo, as executive vice president and managing director. The agency is part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe.

David Sogn joined the Los Angeles office of Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group, as vice president for data science. He succeeds Tom MacKendrick, vice president and director for decision sciences, who left to join the health division of the Kern Organization, part of Rapp, as vice president for digital and data. Mr. Sogn had most recently been director for business intelligence at Sidebar, Santa Monica, Calif.

Tiffany Coletti Titolo joined StrawberryFrog, New York, in a new post, director for client services. She had been managing director at Dojo, San Francisco.

Trademob, Berlin, a mobile marketing company, opened its first office in the United States, in New York. Trademob also has offices in London, Madrid and Paris.

Scott Trattner joined 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners, as an executive creative director. He had most recently been an executive creative director at TBWA/Media Arts Lab, Playa del Rey, Calif., part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. Also at 72andSunny, Frank Hahn and Jason Norcross, creative directors, were promoted to executive creative directors.

Melissa Walston, senior director for advertiser solutions at the Santa Barbara, Calif., office of AudienceScience, was promoted to a new post, vice president for client solutions.

Barbara Yolles joined Campbell-Ewald, Warren, Mich., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had most recently been North American chief growth office at McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of Interpublic, based in the Birmingham, Mich., office.
728 2012-08-27 The author of our cover article answers questions about the Williams sisters and respect for other players, faith as Jehovah's Witnesses, and whether they would be good at any sport they tried....
729 2012-08-27 David Carr on why political conventions should embrace the ethos of reality TV. | Learning how to cut the digital lifeline....
730 2012-08-27 David Carr on why political conventions should embrace the ethos of reality TV. | Learning how to cut the digital lifeline.
731 2012-08-27 Is midfielder Dax McCarty the Red Bulls' most valuable player so far this M.L.S. season?...
732 2012-08-27 Best Buy said it had agreed to let Richard Schulze take a closer look at the company’s financial statements to help him firm up his potential takeover proposal....
733 2012-08-27 In his statement outlining his opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plan, for instance, he said “there are larger macro questions and concerns about the cash management industry as a whole” that needed to be studied before the S.E.C. could move forward with efforts to improve money market funds. Mr. Aguilar did not mention the need for further study to Ms. Schapiro until two days before he went public with his opposition last week, commission officials said.

Possible changes to money market funds have been discussed within the agency for over a year, and Ms. Schapiro distributed the 414-page proposal in June to the four other members of the commission, including Mr. Aguilar. During that time, S.E.C. staff members made numerous overtures to Mr. Aguilar to address any concerns he might have had about the proposal, but most were rebuffed, the people said. On the other hand, Mr. Aguilar met with mutual fund companies 11 times this year as the proposal was being developed, according to S.E.C. records.

Mr. Aguilar also defended his opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plan by noting his discomfort with a recent S.E.C. staff list that showed how many money funds had asked the commission for approval to receive financial support from their parent companies. Mr. Aguilar contended that the commission “was never given the chance to assess the staff’s underlying methodology to understand how the list was compiled.” But S.E.C. officials said that he and the other commissioners received the complete list in early July and that Mr. Aguilar had raised no questions about it.

Mr. Aguilar did not respond to requests for comment, but last week he said in an interview that he wanted to be sure to fully understand the implications of any changes to avoid the possibility that they would unnecessarily drive investors out of money market funds.

Mr. Aguilar’s positions have taken on such significance because they have become the deciding factor in one of the most contentious issues facing financial regulators.

Though not guaranteed by the government, money market funds, which invest in the short-term debt of governments, banks and other companies, have long been seen as low-risk investments, in part because of their apparently stable $1 value per share.

During the financial crisis, however, a large fund lost money on the short-term debt of Lehman Brothers and fell below that $1 a share value, leading investors to withdraw $300 billion within a few weeks from what was a $3.6 trillion industry.

The run ended when the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department stepped in to stabilize the funds. Both agencies have said that because of rule changes made in the Dodd-Frank financial legislation, the government no longer has tools to help the funds if they face another crisis.

The debate over proposals for change has been intense since January 2010, when the S.E.C. approved new rules to make money funds safer. Mr. Aguilar voted for those rules. At the meeting, Ms. Schapiro called the decision an interim step.

About a month later, Mr. Aguilar made his skepticism about the need for more reform clear at a gathering in Phoenix of the Investment Company Institute, the industry lobbying group. He said he feared that reforms would drive investors out of the funds, and added that “the first priority should be to recognize that money market fund investments have historically worked well for all investors.”

Early on, Mr. Aguilar’s position was not as significant because — even with his opposition and that of one of the two Republican commissioners, Troy A. Paredes — Ms. Schapiro had the support of two other commissioners, all she would have needed to win a vote for reform.

At the time, the money market fund industry was cooperating with the agency in discussing possible new rules, smoothing the way for an eventual vote.

But by the end of last year, not long after Ms. Schapiro lost one of the votes she needed for reform, the good will and conversations fell apart.

Kathleen L. Casey, a Republican commissioner who had supported the reform efforts, left the S.E.C. in August 2011. She was succeeded by Daniel M. Gallagher, who came out in opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plans in a speech before the United States Chamber of Commerce in December 2011. Within weeks, the industry essentially cut off conversation with the agency about possible rule changes.

Paul Schott Stevens, chief executive of the Investment Company Institute, traces the end of the talks to a meeting at S.E.C. headquarters in late December 2011. Mr. Stevens said his staff was told by representatives of the S.E.C., the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve that they had two alternative rule changes and were not open to other ideas. The two possibilities were to drop the stable $1 a share value of money fund shares, or to add some sort of capital buffer to absorb losses in a crisis.

“Both of those recommendations would destroy the utility of money funds,” Mr. Stevens said. “At that point, there was nothing further to discuss.”

As industry representatives turned against any further changes, they stepped up their attention to Mr. Aguilar. While Mr. Aguilar had two meetings with members of the industry to discuss the issue in all of 2011, this year there have been 11 meetings with Mr. Aguilar, according to public records.

One of the industry’s primary arguments was that the 2010 rule changes had done enough to make money funds safe. While Mr. Aguilar did not say this was the case, he said last week that the agency needed to study the effect of the 2010 measures before making other changes.

According to the people briefed on his actions at the time, there was a lengthy section on the effect of the 2010 changes in the June proposal, but they said Mr. Aguilar never asked for more study.
734 2012-08-27 Apple's victory on Friday in a patent lawsuit against Samsung could, if upheld, give its rivals a kick in the pants to create more original products, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's New York Times. Whether consumers respond by buying more disti...
735 2012-08-27 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
736 2012-08-27 Plus: waiting for the Fed, marginal tax rates through the years, tweets of the week — and how many people are you expecting at your funeral?...
737 2012-08-27 This week's summer reading contest winner analyzes the reasons women and minority superheroes are missing from best-selling comics....
738 2012-08-27 A provincial official in Austria has told state-run hospitals in the region to stop performing circumcisions, and the Danish authorities have commissioned a report to investigate whether medical doctors are present during religious circumcision rituals as required.

Officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, which for several years have been pondering circumcision recommendations of their own, have yet to weigh in and declined to comment on the academy’s new stance. Medicaid programs in several states have stopped paying for the routine circumcision of infants.

“We’re not pushing everybody to circumcise their babies,” Dr. Douglas S. Diekema, a member of the academy’s task force on circumcision and an author of the new policy, said in an interview. “This is not really pro-circumcision. It falls in the middle. It’s pro-choice, for lack of a better word. Really, what we’re saying is, ‘This ought to be a choice that’s available to parents.’ ”

But opponents of circumcision say no one — not even a well-meaning parent — has the right to make the decision to remove a healthy body part from another person.

“The bottom line is it’s unethical,” said Georganne Chapin, founding director of Intact America, a national group that advocates against circumcision. “A normal foreskin on a normal baby boy is no more threatening than the hymen or labia on your daughter.”

In updating its 1999 policy, the academy’s task force reviewed the medical literature on benefits and harms of the surgery. It was a protracted analysis that began in 2007, and the result is a 30-page report, which includes seven pages of references, including 248 citations.

Among those are 14 studies that provide what the experts characterize as “fair” evidence that circumcision in adulthood protects men from H.I.V. transmission from a female partner, cutting infection rates by 40 to 60 percent. Three of the studies were large randomized controlled trials of the kind considered the gold standard in medicine, but they were carried out in Africa, where H.I.V. — the virus the causes AIDS — is spread primarily among heterosexuals.

Circumcision does not appear to reduce H.I.V. transmission among men who have sex with men, Dr. Diekema said. “The degree of benefit, or degree of impact, in a place like the U.S. will clearly be smaller than in a place like Africa,” he said.

Two studies have found that circumcision actually increases the risk of H.I.V. infection among sexually active men and women, the academy noted.

Other studies have linked male circumcision to lower rates of infection with human papillomavirus and herpes simplex Type 2. But male circumcision is not associated with lower rates of gonorrhea or chlamydia, and evidence for protection against syphilis is weak, the review said.

The procedure has long been recognized to lower urinary tract infections early in life and reduce the incidence of penile cancer

Although newborn male circumcision is generally believed to be relatively safe, deaths are not unheard of, and the review noted that '‘the true incidence of complications after newborn circumcision is unknown.’'

Anesthesia is often not used, and the task force recommended that pain relief, including penile nerve blocks, be used regularly, a change that may raise the rate of complications.

Significant complications are believed to occur in approximately one in 500 procedures. Botched operations can result in damage or even amputation of parts of the penis.

By one estimate, put forth by Dan Bollinger, a prominent opponent of circumcision, based on his review of infant mortality statistics, about 117 boys die each year as a result of circumcision. That estimate is cited often by critics of routine circumcision but widely disputed by medical professionals. A spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the agency did not keep track of deaths from infant circumcision because they are exceedingly rare. In the agency’s last mortality report, which looked at all deaths in the country in 2010, no circumcision-related deaths were found.
739 2012-08-27 In his statement outlining his opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plan, for instance, he said “there are larger macro questions and concerns about the cash management industry as a whole” that needed to be studied before the S.E.C. could move forward with efforts to improve money market funds. Mr. Aguilar did not mention the need for further study to Ms. Schapiro until two days before he went public with his opposition last week, commission officials said.

Possible changes to money market funds have been discussed within the agency for over a year, and Ms. Schapiro distributed the 414-page proposal in June to the four other members of the commission, including Mr. Aguilar. During that time, S.E.C. staff members made numerous overtures to Mr. Aguilar to address any concerns he might have had about the proposal, but most were rebuffed, the people said. On the other hand, Mr. Aguilar met with mutual fund companies 11 times this year as the proposal was being developed, according to S.E.C. records.

Mr. Aguilar also defended his opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plan by noting his discomfort with a recent S.E.C. staff list that showed how many money funds had asked the commission for approval to receive financial support from their parent companies. Mr. Aguilar contended that the commission “was never given the chance to assess the staff’s underlying methodology to understand how the list was compiled.” But S.E.C. officials said that he and the other commissioners received the complete list in early July and that Mr. Aguilar had raised no questions about it.

Mr. Aguilar did not respond to requests for comment, but last week he said in an interview that he wanted to be sure to fully understand the implications of any changes to avoid the possibility that they would unnecessarily drive investors out of money market funds.

Mr. Aguilar’s positions have taken on such significance because they have become the deciding factor in one of the most contentious issues facing financial regulators.

Though not guaranteed by the government, money market funds, which invest in the short-term debt of governments, banks and other companies, have long been seen as low-risk investments, in part because of their apparently stable $1 value per share.

During the financial crisis, however, a large fund lost money on the short-term debt of Lehman Brothers and fell below that $1 a share value, leading investors to withdraw $300 billion within a few weeks from what was a $3.6 trillion industry.

The run ended when the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department stepped in to stabilize the funds. Both agencies have said that because of rule changes made in the Dodd-Frank financial legislation, the government no longer has tools to help the funds if they face another crisis.

The debate over proposals for change has been intense since January 2010, when the S.E.C. approved new rules to make money funds safer. Mr. Aguilar voted for those rules. At the meeting, Ms. Schapiro called the decision an interim step.

About a month later, Mr. Aguilar made his skepticism about the need for more reform clear at a gathering in Phoenix of the Investment Company Institute, the industry lobbying group. He said he feared that reforms would drive investors out of the funds, and added that “the first priority should be to recognize that money market fund investments have historically worked well for all investors.”

Early on, Mr. Aguilar’s position was not as significant because — even with his opposition and that of one of the two Republican commissioners, Troy A. Paredes — Ms. Schapiro had the support of two other commissioners, all she would have needed to win a vote for reform.

At the time, the money market fund industry was cooperating with the agency in discussing possible new rules, smoothing the way for an eventual vote.

But by the end of last year, not long after Ms. Schapiro lost one of the votes she needed for reform, the good will and conversations fell apart.

Kathleen L. Casey, a Republican commissioner who had supported the reform efforts, left the S.E.C. in August 2011. She was succeeded by Daniel M. Gallagher, who came out in opposition to Ms. Schapiro’s plans in a speech before the United States Chamber of Commerce in December 2011. Within weeks, the industry essentially cut off conversation with the agency about possible rule changes.

Paul Schott Stevens, chief executive of the Investment Company Institute, traces the end of the talks to a meeting at S.E.C. headquarters in late December 2011. Mr. Stevens said his staff was told by representatives of the S.E.C., the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve that they had two alternative rule changes and were not open to other ideas. The two possibilities were to drop the stable $1 a share value of money fund shares, or to add some sort of capital buffer to absorb losses in a crisis.

“Both of those recommendations would destroy the utility of money funds,” Mr. Stevens said. “At that point, there was nothing further to discuss.”

As industry representatives turned against any further changes, they stepped up their attention to Mr. Aguilar. While Mr. Aguilar had two meetings with members of the industry to discuss the issue in all of 2011, this year there have been 11 meetings with Mr. Aguilar, according to public records.

One of the industry’s primary arguments was that the 2010 rule changes had done enough to make money funds safe. While Mr. Aguilar did not say this was the case, he said last week that the agency needed to study the effect of the 2010 measures before making other changes.

According to the people briefed on his actions at the time, there was a lengthy section on the effect of the 2010 changes in the June proposal, but they said Mr. Aguilar never asked for more study.
740 2012-08-27 , who will be officially nominated this week as the Republican nominee for president, appears to trim his social convictions to the party’s prevailing winds. There is no doubt, however, about where the party’s vice-presidential candidate stands. A long history of social extremism makes an emblem of the Republican tack to the far right.

Mr. Romney’s choice of Mr. Ryan carried some risks, considering Mr. Ryan’s advocacy of overhauling , but it has sent the strongest signal of solidarity to those who have made the party unrecognizable to moderates. Strident conservatives had been uneasy with Mr. Romney, but it is the rest of the country that should be nervous about conservatives’ now-enthusiastic acceptance of the Republican ticket.

Mr. Ryan is best known as the face of Republican budget-cutting, though his ideology runs much deeper. For years, he has been a reliable vote against workplace equity for women, opposing the Fair Pay Act, which makes it easier for women to file wage-discrimination lawsuits, and two similar measures.

The full outpouring of hard-right enthusiasm is based, to a large degree, on Mr. Ryan’s sweeping opposition to rights. He has long wanted to ban access to abortion even in the case of , the ideology espoused in this year’s Republican platform. (Mr. Romney favors a rape exception.) Mr. Ryan also co-sponsored, along with Representative of , a bill that would have narrowed the definition of rape to reduce the number of poor women who can get an abortion through .

Besides that, he has co-sponsored more than three dozen anti-abortion bills, including measures that would require women to get an first, bar abortions after 20 weeks in the and end federal spending for family planning programs. Though he urged Mr. Akin to end his Senate race last week over an offensive remark about “legitimate rape,” Mr. Ryan has actually co-sponsored more of these measures than Mr. Akin.

“I’m as pro-life as a person gets,” he said in 2010.

He also co-sponsored a bill last year to allow employers to decline coverage of if it violated their moral or religious convictions, and his budget would end all government financing for while slashing spending on prenatal care and infant nutrition. Mr. Ryan’s record on gay rights is no less egregious. He supports a constitutional amendment to ban , and voted against the repeal of the military’s discriminatory don’t-ask, don’t-tell policy. In 2009, a decade after was murdered for being gay, Mr. Ryan voted against a bill named after Mr. Shepard that expands the federal hate crimes act to include brutality based on sexual orientation.
741 2012-08-27 For Apple and executives at other companies in Silicon Valley that emphasize distinctive design, the verdict was a welcome validation of the effort they put into making and protecting technologies that create original user experiences. “It’s good for intellectual property, and good for firms that invest in design,” said Chip Lutton Jr., vice president and general counsel of Nest, maker of a smart thermostat.

Mr. Lutton was previously Apple’s chief intellectual property officer and was involved in filing the suit against Samsung.

Bill Flora, creative director at a design firm in Seattle called Tectonic, acknowledged both positive and negative feelings about the verdict. On the one hand, it could force mobile companies to focus more on design rather than simply acting as copycats, said Mr. Flora, a former Microsoft designer who played a central role in creating the look of its Windows Phone software.

But he said the decision could also create a “minefield” for product designers, in which they are constantly second-guessing whether functions will step on someone else’s patents. Mr. Flora is concerned, for example, that Apple’s patent on distinguishing scrolling from pinch-to-zoom covers a gesture that now is so common that touch-screen products without it would be like cars with square or triangular steering wheels.

“It’s very much like a circular steering wheel,” he said.

Charlie Kindel, another former Microsoft executive who frequently writes about the mobile phone industry on his blog, said the verdict was unlikely to drastically affect Samsung or other handset makers. He said Samsung had already been on a path to revamping its mobile products.

But Mr. Kindel also was concerned about the possibility of the mobile device market becoming increasingly complex. Software developers already have a complicated mix of mobile devices to make apps for, and the pressure on manufacturers to design devices differently could make it even harder. Consumers could be confused over which phones have which apps and functions. It may grow harder to persuade phone users to switch to another system, another roadblock to competition.

“What this means is that the scarcity of mobile developers and the complexity that they face is going to get worse,” he said. Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, is already on the ropes, as is Nokia. Palm, one of the industry’s pioneers, has disappeared.

Timothy Holbrook, a law professor at Emory University, said the verdict would affect companies depending on their willingness to take risks. “Fine, we’ve got this infringement but we know people like iPhone,” Mr. Holbrook said, imagining the thought process at a mobile company. “Let’s try to get as close as possible without infringing.”

Velvin Hogan, the foreman of the jury in the Apple-Samsung case, said in a phone interview on Saturday that the decision should send a “clear message” to the industry that companies that violate intellectual property will have to pay a penalty, like the one Samsung officials face. “They took the risk and it caught up with them,” said Mr. Hogan, 67, a retired electrical engineer who holds two issued patents himself and has a third pending.

While Samsung prepares to appeal the billion-dollar penalty, it has a consolation prize. It remains the top manufacturer of smartphones in the world.
742 2012-08-27 In “The Case for Natural Gas Exports” (Op-Ed, Aug. 16), Michael A. Levi lumps together exports by pipeline to Canada and Mexico and overseas exports of liquefied natural gas. However, the economic and environmental distinctions are huge.

Pipeline exports, especially using the existing transmission network, are relatively simple. But liquefying natural gas is energy-intensive and requires substantial capital investment. A natural gas-fueled gas liquefaction plant consumes nearly as much gas as it liquefies, essentially doubling the carbon footprint of L.N.G. compared with pipeline gas.

The L.N.G. infrastructure (liquefaction plants, special ships) can only be justified by gas supplies and market prices that will remain stable for the decade or more necessary to recoup investments. Today, neither the economic lifetime of shale gas wells nor the extent to which such wells will be developed outside the United States is clear enough to support belief in supply and market stability.

The writer is professor emeritus of marine science and chemistry at the University of Alaska Fairbanks.

For years we’ve been hearing complaints about dependence on foreign oil. Now comes Michael A. Levi to make “The Case for Natural Gas Exports.”
743 2012-08-27 ¶H&R Block, Kansas City, Mo., chose 360i, New York, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, as its social media agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. There was no previous agency handling the account.

¶Scripps Health, San Diego, named DeVito/Verdi West, San Diego, to handle tasks that include creative development and branding. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had most recently been handled internally.

¶Robert Harwood-Matthews, president at the TBWA United Kingdom Group, London, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, was named president of the New York office of the TBWA/Chiat/Day unit of TBWA Worldwide. He succeeds Jamie Gallo, who left in June to join the National Basketball Association, New York, as executive vice president for marketing. Assuming the duties of Mr. Harwood-Matthews in London, with the title of chairman and chief creative officer, will be Peter Souter, a longtime executive at the British agency Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom, who had most recently been writing for television.

¶Lindsay Pattison, chief executive of the British operations of Maxus, London, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, will also serve as the agency’s global chief strategy officer, which is a new post.

¶Mary G. Berner was named president and chief executive at MPA, the Association of Magazine Media, New York, succeeding Nina B. Link, who said in June that she would step down after leading the association since September 1999. Ms. Berner had most recently been president and chief executive at the Reader’s Digest Association and before that worked for TV Guide, Glamour and Fairchild Publications. Ms. Link, whose contract expires at the end of the year, will serve in an advisory capacity at the association from Sept. 17, when Ms. Berner’s appointment takes effect, until then.
744 2012-08-27 “Today, adage.com is our newspaper,” she said, evoking a slogan that had long appeared on the front cover, describing Advertising Age as “The international newspaper of marketing.”

As a result, “we have to rethink what we’re offering in print,” Ms. Klaassen said, aiming for content that “is more considered, more thoughtful, goes deeper.”

As extensive as the makeover is, however, executives say they did not consider eliminating the print version and publishing only online.

“Not so far, anyway,” Mr. Crain said, adding with a laugh, “Ask me again in about 25 years.”

Allison P. Arden, vice president and publisher of Advertising Age, said: “Print still serves a very important role for our readers. That’s especially true for the senior executives and the marketers.”

Marketers have long been the mainstay of the publication’s circulation, which also includes readers who work for agencies and media companies. (A joke used to have it that the quintessential scoop for a reporter at Advertising Age — disclosure: this reporter worked there, for five years in the 1980s — was about a new cookie from Keebler.)

The most noticeable change will be the size of Advertising Age, which is being pared from 10.44 inches by 14.5 inches to 10 inches by 13 inches. Those overseeing the redesign call it a “modern tabloid” shape. By comparison, the principal Advertising Age competitor, Adweek, owned by Prometheus Global Media, has been 9 inches by 10‡ inches since a redesign last year.

Each front cover of Advertising Age will get more of a magazine look, with large artwork promoting the cover article and headlines referring to other articles inside. Front covers now typically offer readers the first few paragraphs of three articles, all of which jump, or continue, inside.

On the inside, changes will include an end to jumping articles from the front to the back of each issue. And the editorial and op-ed pages, now named Viewpoint, will be moved to the back of each issue from the middle and be renamed Opinion.

The redesign has been tested with shadow, or prototype, issues, based on issues published in recent weeks. The initiative is being led by Athletics, a design and brand agency in Brooklyn, working with Ms. Klaassen and Jesper Goransson, art director of Advertising Age.

“Because it’s an 82-year-old brand, we wanted to re-envision it,” said Matt Owens, partner at Athletics with Jason Gnewikow. “The ‘aha’ moment was to change the size, then to reorganize it to be sequential, with no jumps.”

“The next big step was the visual language,” Mr. Owens said, changing it “to reflect the in-depth nature of Ad Age, and not be pulpy or bite-sized.”

“Like any rebranding, it will take time for it to be a well-oiled machine,” he added, “but Rance’s urge to reinvent at this time is admirable.”

In April 2011, Prometheus Global Media, working with the design firm Pentagram, made major changes to the print edition of Adweek as it combined Adweek with two sibling trade publications, Brandweek and Mediaweek.

“We redesigned with the notion the industry was going through this transformation,” said James Cooper, executive editor of Adweek, “and a traditional business-to-business publication needed to be retooled.”

“Print is for larger pieces, analysis; it’s hard to break news in a weekly,” he added. “But you can break news on the Web site or on Twitter, so they all inform each other.”

For a publisher to make “the luxury of having a magazine” work, “you have to take the entire week and put it together in a ‘digest-ful’ way that’s visually appealing,” Mr. Cooper said, “a great read that’s not homework-y or tedious.”

Mr. Cooper wished his counterparts at Advertising Age the “best of luck” in their endeavors because, he said, “putting out a weekly print product in this age is a complicated endeavor.”

That was underscored in October, when Mr. Cooper assumed the duties of Michael Wolff, editorial director of Adweek, who left after barely a year in that post. Under Mr. Wolff, Adweek played up coverage of popular culture and media and played down its traditional coverage of Madison Avenue account and people moves.

“My mission has been to stitch back some of that nuts-and-bolts coverage, an important part of our heritage that we had gotten away from,” Mr. Cooper said.

Although it may seem that Advertising Age and Adweek are following each other closely as they redefine their print editions, there is a reminder of the zigzag nature of their rivalry. The redesign of Advertising Age will make it smaller, but the redesign of Adweek made it larger; before April 2011 it was 8‹ inches by 10‡ inches.
745 2012-08-27 How soon before the next big, tough decision at  Hewlett-Packard ? It could be as early as October.   On Oct. 3, H.P. will hold its industry analyst day in San Francisco, when it is expected to spell out growth projections for the coming fiscal ye...
746 2012-08-27 In June, the U.S.T.A. announced an ambitious renovation plan for the National Tennis Center, which included a new Louis Armstrong Stadium and a new Grandstand Court. Players and fans have their own ideas about what the U.S. Open of their dreams wo...
747 2012-08-28 Andy Roddick, Novak Djokovic, Ana Ivanovic and Venus and Serena Williams coast through the first round of play....
748 2012-08-28 David Nalbandian withdrew from the United States Open on Tuesday, the day before he was set to play his fellow Argentine Juan Martin Del Potro in the first round. He had been recovering from a rib injury....
749 2012-08-28 Federal securities regulators charged eight people in Georgia with insider trading on Tuesday, saying they bought stock in a company ahead of a merger announcement after one of them learned about a pending acquisition by Sanofi-Aventis....
750 2012-08-28 August 28, 2012 - Apple sets the stage for a war with Google.
751 2012-08-28 Suzan-Lori Parks will direct her Pulitzer Prize-winning play at Two River Theater Company in New Jersey....
752 2012-08-28 So what magazines do Media Decoder readers miss the most? Gourmet was the dearest of the dearly departed....
753 2012-08-28 Serena Williams won the gold medal in London. Does she have enough juice left to make a run at a U.S. Open title? Lynn Zinser with the latest from Flushing Meadows.
754 2012-08-28 Chipotle Mexican Grill rounds change in some markets, to avoid handling coins that might slow down the checkout process....
755 2012-08-28 When you're an outcast of FIFA - like the soccer players from Darfur, Zanzibar and Northern Cyprus - you also get a certain amount of bragging rights....
756 2012-08-28 The decision by Newhouse Newspapers follows its similar move in New Orleans and is set to take effect in January....
757 2012-08-28 At the food court at the United States Open, arriving early at an old standby means a quick and satisfying meal (not too expensive either)....
758 2012-08-28 How junk mail could put the Postal Service back on track. | Apple sets the stage for a war with Google. | Solving the mystery of a bourbon-loving fungus....
759 2012-08-28 How junk mail could put the Postal Service back on track. | Apple sets the stage for a war with Google. | Solving the mystery of a bourbon-loving fungus.
760 2012-08-28 The deal highlights the growing business of internal investigations into possible wrongdoing at corporations and other institutions, an increasingly lucrative area for law firms....
761 2012-08-28 Constantine Maroulis will star in the revival of the show, which played four years on Broadway beginning in 1997....
762 2012-08-28 The first day of the Republican National Convention is kicked off and adjourned within two minutes. Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi discusses the weather's impact on the convention.
763 2012-08-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
764 2012-08-28 Up Next in Video
765 2012-08-28 Ms. McCullough played Lamar, an assistant of Brother Mouzone, played by Michael Potts.
766 2012-08-28 By making its own hardware, Google could end up more squarely in Apple's sights. Last week's jury verdict could potentially force Google to adjust its software, too....
767 2012-08-28 The shadow of Hurricane Katrina fell over some of the news coverage out of Tampa, and Apple may now be turning its sights on Google for a patent-infringement fight....
768 2012-08-28 He conceded that “I don’t even know what the ballpark number for a server is — for me, it would be like knowing what the price of a sword is.”

Cloud computing has been around for years, but it is now powering all kinds of new businesses around the globe, quickly and with less capital.

Instagram, a 12-person photo-sharing company that was sold to Facebook for an estimated $1 billion just 19 months after it opened, skipped the expenses and bother of setting up its own computer servers.

EdX, a global online education program from the and Harvard, had over 120,000 students taking a single class together on A.W.S. Over 185 United States government agencies run some part of their services on A.W.S. Millions of people in shop for cars online, using cheap smartphones connected to A.W.S. servers located in and .

“We are on a shift that is as momentous and as fundamental as the shift to the electrical grid,” said Andrew R. Jassy, the head of A.W.S. “It’s happening a lot faster than any of us thought.”

He started A.W.S. in 2006 with about three dozen employees. Amazon won’t say how many people now work at A.W.S., but the company’s Web site currently lists over 600 job openings.

Amazon’s efforts are just the start of a global competition among computing giants. In June, fully introduced a service similar to A.W.S. is also in the business with its offering, Windows Azure.

If only for competitive reasons, Amazon does not say much about A.W.S. However, it is estimated to bring in about $1 billion to Amazon. Its three giant computer regional centers in the United States, in , and California, each consist of multiple buildings with thousands of servers.

There are others in , Ireland, and . And the pace of its expansion has quickened. It opened four of those regions in 2011 and is believed to be building a similar number now. , the chief executive of Amazon, is interested in setting up cloud-computing installations for other governments.

According to an executive with knowledge of Amazon’s operation who was not authorized to speak publicly, just one of the 10 data centers in Amazon’s Eastern United States region has more servers dedicated to cloud computing than does Rackspace, a public cloud company serving 180,000 businesses with more than 80,000 servers.

Eventually, however, Mr. Jassy said, “we believe at the highest level that A.W.S. can be at least as big as our other businesses.” Amazon recorded nearly $50 billion in revenue last year. Mr. Jassy thinks A.W.S. is probably less than 10 percent of its eventual size.

The lower cost of computing, along with overnight deployment of machines, drives the business. ’s Spiegel TV paid A.W.S. to make digital copies of 20,000 programs. It cost less than Spiegel would have paid for the electricity powering its own servers.

GoodData, based in , analyzes data from 6,000 companies on A.W.S. to find things like sales leads. “Before, each company needed at least five people to do this work,” said Roman Stanek, GoodData’s chief executive. “That is 30,000 people. I do it with 180. I don’t know what all those other people will do now, but this isn’t work they can do anymore. It’s a winner-takes-all consolidation.”

All that data running through Amazon’s cloud also has value. People leave bits of data about themselves that others then analyze. At any given time on A.W.S., there are about one million uses of a powerful database, called Elastic MapReduce, that is used to make predictions. Some suggest a new movie or video game to play, while others log behavior for advertising, history or suggestions about whom to date. (Companies have to permit their data to be analyzed, and Amazon says it applies the same security standards it uses on its retail site.)

The efficiency of this hyper-aware environment is already remaking jobs for many and will most likely dislocate more. “You can now test a product against millions of users for just a few thousand dollars, or start a company with just one or two people,” said Graham Spencer, a partner at Google Ventures, which invests in data-heavy start-ups that rely on such cheap computing. “It’s a huge change for Silicon Valley.”

That vision is in line with the way Mr. Bezos sees A.W.S., say executives who have worked with him. “Jeff thinks on a planetary level,” said David Risher, a former Amazon senior executive who now heads a charity called Worldreader, which uses A.W.S. to download books to thousands of computers in Africa. “A.W.S. is an opportunity, as a business. But it is also a philosophy of enabling other people to build big systems. That is how Amazon will make a dent in the universe.”
769 2012-08-28 Paul D. Ryan likes to cite the economist Friedrich von Hayek as an influence, but Hayek supported national health care and questioned Ronald Reagan’s policies....
770 2012-08-28 President Obama’s insistence that the government should help only “responsible borrowers,” underscored by the statement that “Mr. Obama and his advisers were convinced that even in the depths of an unyielding crisis, most Americans did not want their neighbors rescued at public expense,” has had devastating consequences for the economy and an ironic effect on homeowners who shared that attitude.

Borrowers who were current in their mortgage payments saw their homes lose value partly as a result of mortgage foreclosures. It’s a great example of shooting yourself in the foot, motivated by the intent to be punitive.

If for no other reason than self-interest, we should support efforts to sustain property values rather than worsen the situation through foreclosures.

The administration’s reaction was quite different when it came to bailing out the banks.
771 2012-08-28 The Republican Party does not often mention New York City as the place it turns to for religious guidance. But this year, New Yorkers will give both the opening and the closing prayers at the Republican National Convention, in a quirk of timing that nevertheless highlights the increased importance the party is placing on appealing to Jewish and Catholic voters.

Rabbi Meir Y. Soloveichik, 35, will deliver the opening prayer on Tuesday, taking the stage in Tampa, Fla., right after the national anthem. A grandson and grand nephew of renowned Orthodox rabbis, he directs the Straus Center for Torah and Western Thought at Yeshiva University in Manhattan, whose mission is “bridging the intellectual heritage of Judaism with the great ideas that have shaped the world,” he said in an interview on Monday.

“To me, this is really an extraordinary honor and a privilege, both as an American and a Jew, to be invited to give a prayer at what is really a cherished ritual of American democracy,” he said.

Rabbi Soloveichik was originally supposed to give the closing prayer on the third night of the convention, after a speech by Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Yeshiva University spokesman said. However, because of the cancellation of Monday’s events due to Tropical Storm Isaac, organizers asked the rabbi late Sunday to go first.

Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, the Roman Catholic archbishop of New York, will deliver the closing prayer of the convention on Thursday night, right after Mitt Romney accepts the nomination. That news has generated controversy since it was revealed last week because Cardinal Dolan — an outspoken critic of President Obama’s policies on gay marriage, abortion and contraception — says that he wishes to be seen as nonpartisan.
772 2012-08-28 In recent years he has modified or abandoned some of these positions as he courted Republican support. But the minimum wage is an example of an issue on which he has held constant.

And some people who have known him in both of his careers say that he still sees government through the pragmatic eyes of a businessman.

“I think his basic philosophy is, whether you’re running a for-profit business, a nonprofit or a government agency, at the end of the day one should evaluate how one is doing, and continually evaluate success, and the right criteria is the level of customer satisfaction,” said Thomas G. Stemberg, the founder of Staples and a friend and adviser to Mr. Romney since the mid-1980s.

The looming showdown over the would provide one of the first tests of how Mr. Romney would balance these influences as president. He has said during the campaign that the deficit should be reduced solely through spending cuts, and that less spending would stimulate growth. Mr. Ryan is a leading proponent of both views. But in Massachusetts, Mr. Romney worked with the Democratic-controlled legislature to close budget deficits through a combination of spending cuts and increased revenues from higher fees for public services and the elimination of some corporate tax deductions.

In 1985, Mr. Romney and his colleagues at Bain Capital made one of their first investments in Sanborn Industries, a Massachusetts company that made recycling systems for industrial coolants. The had just proposed a rule encouraging such recycling. But the agency delayed enactment, potential customers waited and Bain lost its money.

The lesson that Mr. Romney took, which he described 25 years later in his book “No Apology”  was that the regulation was a good idea but that the government should have moved more quickly. “The regulations ultimately led to better machining industry practices,” he wrote, “but because they weren’t enforced for almost a decade, we lost our investment.”

His support for minimum wage increases reflected the same principle, that government enforcement of minimum standards is economically valuable — “I wish more Republicans and Democrats alike understood that important truth,” he wrote — and that businesses benefit when that enforcement is predictable.

When he endorsed inflation indexing during his 2002 campaign for governor, he said it would let businesses plan better than they could with intermittent minimum wage increases at the whim of politicians. “I do not believe that indexing the minimum wage will cost us jobs,” he said. “I believe it will help us to retain jobs.”

He said that again in 2008, during his first presidential campaign, and in January while campaigning in .

But under fire from conservatives, he modified his position, saying that automatic increases in the minimum wage should be suspended in some circumstances, like periods of high unemployment.

Mr. Romney has also stopped talking about the benefits of regulation, focusing instead on its costs. His campaign platform includes proposals to curtail rule making, like capping the total cost of regulation at the current level, without adjusting for inflation.

“For every regulation, there are unintended consequences, underestimated costs and unwanted influence from special interests,” Mr. Romney said in a speech in March at the . “When the heavy hand of government replaces the invisible hand of the market, economic freedom is the inevitable victim.”

A few weeks after taking office in 2003, Mr. Romney visited a solar panel factory in Lowell, a run-down mill town north of , to announce that a state trust fund would invest $9 million in five companies developing clean energy technology and place an additional $15 million in a privately managed fund to make further investments.

During the current campaign, he has said that the government should not invest in individual companies, criticizing the Obama administration for doing so in cases like that of , a bankrupt solar panel maker.

But in 2003, he extolled the potential economic benefits. The fund, he said, “can become a major economic springboard for the commonwealth by focusing on job creation in the renewable energy sector.”

Mr. Romney’s predecessor, Jane M. Swift, had proposed that the state should take $81.6 million from the Renewable Energy Trust, about half of its financing, to pare the state’s budget deficit.

Rob Pratt, who ran the fund, said that Mr. Romney’s staff called shortly after the to ask about investments that were ready to be announced. “It was very encouraging that he wanted to put his imprint on it,” Mr. Pratt said in an interview. “After that, I never felt that they were going to take a run at gutting the trust.”

A month later, in February, when the State Senate proposed draining $35 million from the fund, Mr. Romney argued for spending cuts instead. He ultimately agreed to take $17 million from the trust, but he immediately announced legislation requiring the state to buy a comparable amount of renewable energy, maintaining support for the industry by other means.

Mr. Romney’s current opposition to such investments has placed him at odds with many business interests. “I know that not everyone is happy with my discourse on this,” he told the Business Roundtable, an association of executives, in June. “But I don’t think the government should be investing in individual companies to try and promote individual companies.”

It has also disappointed some of those he worked with in Massachusetts. William Osborn, a private manager selected to help the state invest $15 million through the spinoff Green Energy Fund, said Mr. Romney had liked the idea of combining the strengths of government, including a longer investment horizon, with private sector discipline.

“He’s altogether a different person now,” Mr. Osborn said, “but back then there was no complaint that he wasn’t supportive of this stuff.”

Barbara Anderson spent more than half an hour in March 2002 fruitlessly trying to persuade Mr. Romney, then seeking the Republican nomination for governor, to sign the pledge for no new taxes that the last three governors, all Republicans, had signed.

Ms. Anderson, executive director of Citizens for Limited Taxation, an influential group in the small world of Massachusetts conservatives, met with Mr. Romney in a hotel conference room north of Boston with a copy of the pledge printed on parchment-style paper “that looked a little businesslike,” she said.

“What I remember is that he never stopped smiling,” Ms. Anderson said in an interview. “He listened and gave us all the time we needed to make our case, and then he said what he was going to say: ‘I’m just not going to sign it. It’s not necessary. I’m not going to raise taxes.’ ”

But Mr. Romney would soon anger conservatives with a tax proposal that was not intended to raise any new money. In October 2002, he called for Massachusetts to shift from a flat-rate annual tax on automobiles to a tax based on emissions. Mr. Romney was careful to describe the plan as “revenue neutral.” It was meant to change behavior. Owners of low-emission vehicles would pay less; owners of high-emission vehicles would pay more.

Ms. Anderson told that it was an example of “big mama government telling us how to lead our lives.”

The idea found little support in the legislature, but it was representative of Mr. Romney’s broader view that government could improve the economy not just through tax cuts but also through penalties — as in his landmark plan to penalize people who do not carry health insurance.

“Experience proves again and again that incentives are more effective than controls,” he wrote in his book.

As Mr. Romney sought to close the state’s budget deficit, he also sought to raise revenues by invoking what he described as the conservative principle of personal responsibility, cutting corporate tax deductions and raising fees for things like ice rink rentals and business licenses.

He invoked the same idea in a deal with the legislature to replenish the state’s unemployment fund through a combination of benefit cuts and higher fees on businesses, with most of the burden falling on companies that had most frequently dropped workers onto the dole. All states use a version of this “experience rating” to set unemployment taxes; Massachusetts under Mr. Romney moved from a modest adjustment to one of the steepest slopes.

“It was kind of hard to argue against those changes,” said Bill Vernon, Massachusetts state director for the National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business trade group.

Mr. Romney has indicated, however, that he would not replicate the Massachusetts approach nationally. He has said that the federal government’s revenues are sufficient, and that he would focus on spending cuts.

He has also backed away from the use of tax penalties. In early 2006, he proposed what he later described as a “similar but more palatable” plan to offer a tax break for buyers of vehicles, with no attempt to recover the lost revenues from owners of other vehicles.

And in December 2006, while preparing for his first presidential bid, Mr. Romney signed his name to a national version of the pledge for no new taxes.
773 2012-08-28 Apple and Microsoft have both sued phone makers in large part because it is far easier to calculate the damages those companies could owe from the sale of patent-infringing phones.

Unlike Apple, which makes both iPhone software and hardware, Google makes Android software but leaves the manufacturing of phones and the customization of specific Android features to other companies, like Samsung, HTC and Motorola. (Though Google now owns Motorola, it has said it will work no more closely with Motorola than with the other hardware companies when it comes to making Android phones.)

And Google gives the Android software to manufacturers at no charge. Instead, it makes money on Android indirectly, by selling mobile ads, along with apps and media in its Google Play store.

It would be difficult for Apple to prove that Google is benefiting financially from patent infringement, or that Google, and not the hardware manufacturers, is directly responsible for potential damages caused to Apple, said Robert P. Merges, faculty director of the Center for Law and Technology at the University of California, Berkeley. That could change as Google makes or designs more products itself.

If Apple really went after Google, Mr. Merges said, it could end up hurting its own products. The iPhone includes a Google search bar in its Safari browser, and Google offers some popular apps, like one for Gmail, in Apple’s App Store. A direct attack could compel Google to remove such features from the iPhone and make it a less attractive product to consumers, he said.

That kind of relationship has not stopped Apple in the past, though. Samsung, for instance, is a major supplier to Apple of iPhone parts like chips and screens.

Google has also foreshadowed that it has grounds to countersue Apple, much as companies like Samsung have done. Google has patents on several important iPhone features like maps and search, for instance. “Even though you are at war with these guys on one front, you want to try to maintain strategic peace in other areas if you can,” Mr. Merges said.

Still, peace between Google and Apple is looking shakier by the day.

Lawyers from Google have been working closely with those from hardware manufacturers, including Samsung, to defend against Apple, according to two people with knowledge of Google’s legal tactics.

Several features that Apple said Samsung’s devices had infringed are built into Android, like a way to distinguish between one-finger scrolling and two-finger gestures.  Another, the rubber band effect, when the screen bounces to indicate reaching the top or bottom, was part of Android until recently. According to a person briefed on Google’s Android design plans, Google removed the effect for design reasons, not in response to patent litigation.

“Most of these patent claims don’t relate to the core Android operating system,” Google said in a statement on Monday. “The mobile industry is moving fast and all players, including newcomers, are building upon ideas that have been around for decades.”

Google declined to comment on whether it would make changes to Android. But when it comes to features like tapping to zoom, it may have to “design around” Apple’s patents and safeguard itself and its hardware partners, said Robert Barr, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley and former patent counsel for Cisco Systems.

Google set itself up as a target earlier this year when it acquired Motorola Mobility, an Android phone maker with which Apple has been locked in a multiyear legal battle over smartphone patents. A federal judge in June dismissed a lawsuit between Apple and Motorola. Earlier this month, Motorola filed a new suit against Apple with the International Trade Commission.

Still, owning Motorola also armed Google with its own arsenal of mobile-related patents, so a fight between Apple and Motorola could result in a settlement in which the two companies agreed to license each other’s patents, Mr. Barr said.

The Samsung conflict is likely to linger. Samsung has said it will ask the judge in the case to overturn the jury’s verdict and, if that fails, will file an appeal with a higher court.

Apple on Monday asked a federal judge to block the sale of eight Samsung smartphones. But the chance that Samsung will have to take those phones off store shelves soon is slim, because of the likelihood that such an action could be delayed, pending appeals by Samsung.
774 2012-08-28 Two Tibetan teenagers set themselves on fire and burned to death on Monday in an anti-Chinese political protest in a restive Tibetan-populated area of western China’s Sichuan Province, the rights group Free Tibet reported. At least 50 people have set themselves on fire since March 2011. The latest victims were identified as Lobsang Kalsang, an 18-year-old monk, and Damchoek, 17, a former monk. Free Tibet, which has networks of contacts in Tibetan-populated areas of China, said the teenagers staged their protest outside the Kirti monastery in the town of Ngaba, known in Chinese as Aba, a center of anti-Chinese sentiment.
775 2012-08-28 For me to film the snake in the dark, I had to rely on Sony’s innovation and engineering. The camera’s infrared LED source generated light with a longer wavelength than the human eye can detect; those photons then bounced off the snake and were detected by the camera’s infrared sensors and converted into an image.

For the fer-de-lance to find its prey in the dark, it also relies on infrared sensors. But that ability, which it shares with a select group of other snakes, was acquired the old fashioned-way: It was evolved, of course. And recent understanding of how some snakes and other animals detect infrared light is providing some striking examples of how new lifestyles can evolve when old genes learn some new tricks.

Closely related to the rattlesnake, the fer-de-lance is also a pit viper, a member of a group of venomous snakes named for the deep sensory pits between the nostrils and eyes. These specialized pits enable the snakes to detect infrared light in the form of heat.

Humans and other warm-blooded animals emit heat as infrared radiation. Pit vipers are so adept at infrared sensing that some can detect potential prey a meter away.

To understand how snakes evolved their infrared detection systems, a group of scientists led by Prof. David Julius at the University of California, San Francisco, searched for potential infrared-sensing proteins in the western diamondback rattlesnake. They looked in particular at genes active in the nerve cells that are connected to the pits, called trigeminal neurons.

They found one gene, known as TRPA1, that was 400-fold more active in rattlesnake trigeminal neurons than in other kinds of neurons. Moreover, they found that the TRPA1 gene was not highly active in the trigeminal neurons of snakes lacking pits. These two pieces of evidence suggested that TRPA1 might encode a protein involved in infrared sensing.

The TRPA1 protein was very familiar to the scientists. A few years earlier, Dr. Julius’s group had identified TRPA1 as the receptor that drives our response to the molecules that give wasabi its punch, as well as to other chemical irritants, like tear gas.

The TRPA1 gene encodes a type of receptor protein known as an ion channel. In humans and other mammals, when the protein is exposed to and binds specific chemicals, the channel opens, allowing ions to flow into nerve cells and setting off a sequence of events that produces a nerve impulse.

In pit vipers, however, Dr. Julius and his collaborators discovered that the TRPA1 has evolved to be especially heat-sensitive. While the receptor is not activated in most snakes by temperatures approaching 37 degrees Celsius (98 degrees Fahrenheit, our normal body temperature), the western diamondback rattlesnake TRPA1 receptor is stimulated around 27 degrees Celsius (80 degrees Fahrenheit), creating a “thermal image” of the heat source in the snake’s brain that is used to aim its strike. Pit vipers are not the only animals or even the only snakes to have evolved infrared sensing. Pythons and boas have also evolved heat-sensing pit organs on their faces, although of a different structure. Dr. Julius and his team found that TRPA1 was also highly expressed in the trigeminal neurons of python and boa pit organs, about 65-fold and 170-fold higher, respectively, than in the trigeminal neurons of other snakes lacking pits. Similarly, their TRPA1 receptors were 5 to 8 degrees Celsius more heat-sensitive than typical snakes.

In both groups of snakes, changes in the structure of the TRPA1 receptor, and the evolution of very high levels of expression in their sensory pits, endowed the animals with sensitive infrared detectors.

The large evolutionary distance between pit vipers and pythons and boas indicates that the two groups of snakes separately evolved infrared sensing.

But TRPA1 is not the only means of infrared sensing. Dr. Julius’s laboratory recently investigated the mechanism of infrared detection in another group of animals so equipped: the infamous vampire bats. This small group of blood-feeding bats also has sensory pits around the noses that the animals use to locate the warmest areas on the surface of their furry prey, where blood flow is the greatest. Dr. Julius’s team found that the bats had recruited a different ion channel/ receptor called TRPV1 to become an infrared sensor.

What is especially noteworthy about TRPV1 is that it is the very same receptor that detects capsaicins, the active ingredients in chili peppers, in our neurons. It causes the familiar burning sensation when prompted. The scientists discovered that the particular form of the receptor expressed in vampire bat trigeminal neurons was much more heat-sensitive (by about 9 degrees Celsius) than either our TRPV1 receptor or the TRPV1 expressed in fruit bat neurons. The vampire bat receptor is thus tuned to detect heat in ways that other bats and mammals cannot.

Both the TRPA1 and TRPV1 genes are hundreds of millions of years old, having arisen deep in evolutionary history, while vampire bats, pit vipers, and pythons and boas are much younger species. The histories of these genes and animals, and the repeated invention of infrared sensing, demonstrate how the evolution of new abilities does not necessarily require new genes, but new variations of very old genes and new ways of using them.

In case you are eager to see such clever creatures, all three known species of vampire bats also inhabit Belize. I didn’t tell Jamie then, but now she knows.
776 2012-08-28 Apple’s $1 billion court win against Samsung translated Monday into a much bigger jump in its market value, and a marked dip for several other technology stocks.

At midday, Apple shares were up $12.70, or 1.9 percent, to $675.92 after hitting a high of $680.87 at the start of trading.

That raised its market capitalization, already the highest in the world, by $11 billion to $633.6 billion.

Late Friday, a nine-person federal jury in Silicon Valley found that some of Samsung’s products illegally copied features and designs from Apple’s iPhone and iPad.

Investors appeared to be betting that the verdict would make it harder for Apple’s rivals to ride on the iPhone’s coattails. In particular, analysts said, it was likely to slow the growth of Android, Google’s operating system for smartphones. Android is used in phones made by Samsung, HTC, LG and Motorola, now a division of Google.
777 2012-08-28 Over the weekend, about 1,000 protesters affiliated with the anticorruption crusader Anna Hazare marched through New Delhi over the coal scandal. The protests were aimed at both the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the police arrested scores of people as they tried to picket outside the houses of the prime minister and of Sonia Gandhi, president of the Congress Party.

But the confrontation on Monday suggested that the current “monsoon” session of Parliament was likely to be little different from several other sessions during the past three years, in which political tactics trumped substance. This session, which ends on Sept. 7, has an ambitious docket, with important bills pending on food security, corruption and land acquisition. So far, though, not a single one has been passed in the lower house. Last week, Bharatiya Janata lawmakers forced repeated adjournments, shouting and protesting over the coal scandal.

Swapan Dasgupta, a right-wing political analyst in New Delhi, said opposition leaders were betting that battering Mr. Singh and his government over corruption was a winning strategy to prepare for the 2014 national elections, even if doing so risked alienating voters who want to see Parliament function. He said opposition parties used a similar strategy in 1989 against Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, whose Congress Party lost badly in the next election.

“That’s why they are so gung-ho about it, because of the past precedent,” Mr. Dasgupta said. He added, “They want to keep the focus singularly on this issue, at least for some time, before they go in for a debate.”

Mr. Singh is known for his personal integrity, even as his government has been besieged with scandals and charges of mismanagement. But accusations over coal deals have especially galvanized opponents because Mr. Singh holds direct responsibility over the Coal Ministry.

India has large deposits of coal, but much of the resource remains untapped, often because of environmental concerns or land disputes. Beginning in 2004, the government, seeking to increase power production quickly, awarded coal blocks to some of the country’s biggest private power companies.

This month, India’s comptroller and auditor general released an audit estimating that government policies on the sale of coal concessions had cost the country nearly $34 billion in royalties. The report found that rather than putting each untapped coal block up for public auction, the government had sold the blocks to private and public power companies on favorable terms, a process that the report criticized as lacking transparency and effectively offering significant discounts for private companies.

Several Congress Party leaders dismissed the findings as misguided and the projected losses as hypothetical, because most of the coal remains in the ground. Moreover, Congress Party leaders have tried to turn the pressure on the Bharatiya Janata Party, calling for an open debate in Parliament, even as the opposition has persisted in shutting things down.

“Once again, I appeal to the opposition to come back to the house, to debate our positions and let the country judge where the truth lies,” Mr. Singh told television crews outside Parliament, minutes after his appearance in the lower house.

By Monday afternoon, Mr. Singh’s written statement to Parliament was made public on government Web sites. In it, he said he assumed “full responsibility” for the actions of the Coal Ministry and declared that “any allegations of impropriety are without basis and unsupported by the facts.”

Mr. Singh said that his government had first suggested the idea of competitive bidding for coal blocks in 2004 but that state governments, including states led by opposition parties, opposed such a move. Parliament did not pass the necessary legislative amendments to shift to competitive bidding until 2010, he said.

Opposition leaders, though, have blamed the government for the slow change to competitive bidding, saying that an objection from the prime minister’s office spurred the delay.

“The whole process of allocation of coal blocks stinks,” Arun Jaitley, the leader of the opposition in the upper house, said in a statement on Sunday.
778 2012-08-28 Expectations are that the Fed will start another round of bond purchases next month, but Mr. Bernanke will probably keep markets guessing about the timing.

“The big upswing in the equity market that we’ve seen is based on the belief the Fed is going to do something and that Bernanke is going to say sooner rather than later that he’s willing to commit to further easing,” said Subodh Kumar, chief investment strategist at Subodh Kumar & Associates. “But I don’t think he’s got the policy support within the Fed to do that, so the markets are set for some more correction here.”

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.30 points, or 0.25 percent, to close at 13,124.67. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dipped 0.69 points to 1,410.44. The Nasdaq Composite Index edged up 3.40 points to 3,073.19.

Stocks have rallied in recent weeks on growing expectations for a third round of quantitative easing from the Fed, as well as possible action by the European Central Bank. News from Jackson Hole could determine whether the rally will be sustained.

Investors will be faced with other potentially market-moving events in the next few weeks. The European Central Bank will meet on Sept. 6 and is expected to take some action to support the region’s sputtering economy and tackle the debt crisis. And Germany’s constitutional court is expected to rule on the legality of the euro zone bailout fund on Sept. 12.

The Dow was led down by shares of I.B.M., which agreed to buy Kenexa for $1.3 billion. Shares of I.B.M. dropped $2.08, or 1.1 percent, to $195.69. Shares of Kenexa gained $13.40, or 41.4 percent, to $45.79.

In other deal news, Hertz Global Holdings said it would buy its smaller rival, the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, for about $2.3 billion, ending years of an off-and-on takeover battle. Shares of Hertz climbed $1.06, or 8.1 percent, to $14.21, while Dollar Thrifty gained $6.08, or 7.5 percent, to $87.08.

Hudson City Bancorp’s stock jumped $1.01, or 15.7 percent, to $7.45 after the company agreed to be acquired by the M&T Bank for $3.7 billion in cash and stock. M&T shares advanced $3.95, or 4.6 percent, to $89.82.

The bond market moved higher on Monday. The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 10/32, to 99 24/32, while its yield fell to 1.65 percent, from 1.69 percent late Friday.
779 2012-08-28 AOL Inc. on Monday declared a special dividend of $5.15 a share and said that it would buy back about $600 million in its common stock through an accelerated repurchase program.

The New York-based Internet company said the moves were part of a plan to return $1.1 billion to the company’s shareholders.

The shares will be bought back through an accelerated stock repurchase agreement with Barclays Bank using a previous stock-buyback authorization and an incremental $10 million approved by the company on Sunday.

AOL will pay the $600 million at the beginning of the agreement and expects to receive most of the shares before the end of the year, including about four million shares that Barclays will deliver to AOL on Thursday, the company said.

The exact number of shares AOL will ultimately buy back will be based on a discount to the volume-weighted average share price of AOL common stock during the agreement period minus $5.15 for the payment of the special dividend, the company said.

Both moves are aimed at increasing value for the company’s shareholders, AOL said.
780 2012-08-28 As Republicans gather in Tampa, Fla., for their convention, party leaders want to drive home a message to voters: The federal debt is hurtling toward $16 trillion, and it is  President Obama 's fault.   That's the gist of what the party chairman, ...
781 2012-08-28 Young farm animals given  antibiotics  gain weight quickly. Now a new study suggests that the same thing may happen to human infants treated with antibiotics.   Researchers writing online last week in The International Journal of Obesity studied 1...
782 2012-08-28 Warning: this post contains spoilers about Sunday's episode of "Breaking Bad."   From the moment he first appeared on AMC's "Breaking Bad,"  Mike Ehrmantraut , the laconic drug-ring henchman played by Jonathan Banks, was someone you did not want t...
783 2012-08-28 One of the nation's bigger regional banks,  M&T Bank , has had a hectic few days of deal-making.   Last week, the Buffalo-based M&T Bank paid back the government its bailout money, and on Monday, it announced the acquisition of  Hudson City Bancor...
784 2012-08-28 Sports marketing experts praised United Way and the N.F.L. for their efforts.   Dan Migala, a sports marketing consultant in Chicago, said the new campaign disproved basketball player Charles Barkley's provocative statement in a 1993 Nike commerci...
785 2012-08-28 6:20 p.m. | Updated  After more than a week of negotiations, Best Buy said on Monday that it had agreed to let its founder, Richard M. Schulze, take a closer look at its financial statements to help him hone his potential takeover proposal for the...
786 2012-08-29 Action from the second round at the United States Open, including victories by Victoria Azarenka and Andy Murray....
787 2012-08-29 The company is hiring in India and China....
788 2012-08-29 John McCain focused his speech at the Republican National Convention on foreign policy.
789 2012-08-29 Megan Moulton-Levy and Lindsay Lee-Waters learned Tuesday night that they had made it into the United States Open as alternates. They were also told they would face Venus and Serena Williams on Wednesday afternoon....
790 2012-08-29 The gun appeared to have been left inadvertently, and Mitt Romney was never considered in any danger....
791 2012-08-29 Alex Waske, who lost in a doubles match at the United States Open on Wednesday to end his professional career, was cheered on by two coaches who helped him have play in college....
792 2012-08-29 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Wednesday's selection includes a pictorial analysis of the smartphone industry, a look at a powerhouse venture capitalism firm and a star sp...
793 2012-08-29 Brown Johnson, who was responsible for groundbreaking hits like "Blue's Clues" and "Dora the Explorer," is credited with Nickelodeon's entrance to preschool television....
794 2012-08-29 At the Farm 2 Fork booth at the United States Open, the shortrib sandwich is definitely shareable....
795 2012-08-29 The tennis player Irina Falconi talks about her prematch playlist, and answers questions from readers....
796 2012-08-29 Entertaining advertising can create the impression of a retailer that has a sense of fun and that might have something unexpected in store for its customers....
797 2012-08-29 The National Park Foundation created a Web site with mobile devices in mind so travelers can find the nearest park and share park stories, photos or video....
798 2012-08-29 Who was James Reilly, and where is he today?...
799 2012-08-29 A new proposal outlined on Wednesday by the Securities and Exchange Commission would remove a longtime restriction barring hedge funds from marketing themselves in public....
800 2012-08-29 N.Y. See: Behind the scenes at the United States Open, a video glimpse of Serena Williams at work....
801 2012-08-29 Congress has eased demands that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York turn over documents detailing interest rate manipulation at big banks, whittling down the request and granting more time....
802 2012-08-29 Mini-Unit 2 of our Election Unit is about researching the issues. The unit includes lesson activities, projects and useful handouts....
803 2012-08-29 What Hurricane Isaac might mean for energy prices. | Second-quarter growth revised upward. | How new media are dominating convention coverage....
804 2012-08-29 What Hurricane Isaac might mean for energy prices. | Second-quarter growth revised upward. | How new media are dominating convention coverage.
805 2012-08-29 Amazon.com rarely talks about what it is doing with its cloud service, Amazon Web Services. But a look through the company's help-wanted listings reveals a lot about where it is headed....
806 2012-08-29 What would you do with this business?
807 2012-08-29 LOS ANGELES — With its bears, slippery rock walls and waterfalls, Yosemite National Park, where at least 18 people died last year, is known as a particularly dangerous patch of America the beautiful.

But park officials on Tuesday told 1,700 people they may have been exposed to a potentially lethal rodent-borne disease while visiting one of Yosemite’s low-cost lodging areas this summer.

The e-mail alerts said four people who stayed at Curry Village in June have contracted hantavirus pulmonary syndrome, a rare disease carried by mice and other rodents, and that two of them have died.

Humans can become infected with the virus “by breathing small particles of mouse urine or droppings that have been stirred up into the air,” wrote Dan Jensen, president of DNC Parks and Resorts at Yosemite. Hantavirus is carried in about 15 percent of deer mice, which have solid-colored backs and white bellies.

Symptoms, which can start from one to six weeks after exposure, include fever, chills, headache, muscle aches, vomiting or cough. The park, which said it is working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, warned that the disease can progress to severe difficulty breathing within two to seven days, in which case people should seek immediate medical help, Mr. Jensen said.

Only 587 cases have been documented in the United States since 1993, when the virus was first identified; about one-third of cases are fatal.
808 2012-08-29 The state elections chief fired two Democrats from the elections board in the Dayton area on Tuesday after they pressed to allow early voting on weekends. Secretary of State Jon Husted initially suspended the two, Thomas Ritchie Sr. and Dennis Lieberman, and then temporarily lifted the suspension last week so the board could continue its work. Mr. Husted told the two on Tuesday that he was dismissing them because they had “knowingly and willfully violated Ohio election law” by not following his directive on early voting hours. The board members’ actions are among disputes over early voting in the battleground state that have essentially broken down along party lines.
809 2012-08-29 Kiryat Shmona is a hardened little city on Israel’s border with Lebanon, a town of 23,000 that has been repeatedly subjected to violence during the decades of Arab-Israeli confrontations. But over the past year, it became known for something else — as the home of an upstart soccer team that somehow captured the championship of Israel’s top league and then just kept going.

The Israeli title allowed Kiryat Shmona to compete in the qualifying rounds of the Europe-based Champions League, considered the world’s richest and most prestigious soccer club competition. Kiryat Shmona embraced the challenge, first eliminating a team from Slovakia and then one from Azerbaijan.

All it needed to do was win one more home-and-away matchup, this one with BATE, the champion of Belarus, and the once unthinkable would occur: Kiryat Shmona would play in the group stage of the Champions League alongside European powerhouses like Chelsea and Manchester United, Real Madrid and Barcelona.

But it did not happen. Kiryat Shmona put itself in a hole by losing, 2-0, to BATE last week in Belarus. The rematch came Tuesday in Israel’s national football stadium in Ramat Gan. Kiryat Shmona needed its own 2-0 victory to force a tie, and overtime. Or to simply win outright by topping BATE by three or more goals.

The stadium was largely empty, the small core of Kiryat Shmona supporters doing their best to fill the void. The game, meanwhile, remained scoreless until Laszlo Lencse fired home a free kick for Kiryat Shmona in the 67th minute to make it 1-0. The second goal never came, though, although Kiryat Shmona came close. Instead, BATE scored in the final moments to ensure that it would move on.

There is a consolation prize for Kiryat Shmona: participation in the group stage of the Europa League. It is equivalent to an American college basketball team missing out on the N.C.A.A. tournament and being invited to the National Invitation Tournament. Still, not bad for a team from a little city that lives in the shadow of rockets. (NYT)
810 2012-08-29 Gov. Sean Parnell said that a major earthquake or a volcanic eruption could leave Alaska’s 720,000 residents cut off from supply lines, and that he was taking steps to ensure an adequate food supply. Mr. Parnell said he was moving ahead with plans to build warehouses full of emergency food in Anchorage and Fairbanks, with a goal of having enough to feed 40,000 people for up to a week.
811 2012-08-29 A French court will open a homicide investigation into the 2004 death of the former Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat, left, French news media reported Tuesday. Mr. Arafat’s widow, Suha, petitioned French authorities to investigate last month after findings by a Swiss laboratory suggested that Mr. Arafat may have been exposed to polonium 210, the same radioactive isotope used to poison a dissident Russian former spy in London in 2006. Mr. Arafat died in a French military hospital on Nov. 11, 2004, after an infection that was never identified, according to medical records. There have long been suggestions, however unspecific, that he may have been the victim of foul play. The Palestinian Authority, which has agreed to exhume the body for analysis, welcomed the French decision, Saeb Erekat, an aide to the Palestinian Authority president Mahmoud Abbas, told Agence France-Presse.
812 2012-08-29 “Forget having a robust, guiding voice. The victims have no voice at all,” Mr. Teves said.

Cheryl Haggstrom, the executive vice president of Community First, said $350,000 from the relief fund had been distributed so far to victims’ families through the Colorado Organization for Victim Assistance. That money has been allocated largely to ease the burden of immediate costs like burials and travel, she said.

More than $100,000 has also gone to 10 local nonprofit groups assigned to aid victims and their families, Ms. Haggstrom said.

Ms. Haggstrom said she was deeply sympathetic to the families’ frustration, adding that it was critical to ensure that remaining funds were stretched out over time to help with their long-term needs.

“We do trust the process,” she said. “We do believe that it’s a good process. There are some well-minded individuals who are doing the best job they can to address all of these issues in a timely fashion.”

It is not uncommon for relief funds to be fraught with tension. After the mass shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado and the Sept. 11 attacks, disputes erupted over how money from relief funds should be disbursed.

In this case, some families said on Tuesday that they had already received a check for $5,000 but worried that the amount would be all they ever got.

The family of Jarell Brooks, who was one of 58 wounded in the theater shooting on July 20, said that he was unable to return to work and that loved ones had been forced to sacrifice income to care for him.

“You don’t understand how difficult it is for someone to ask you, as though you are going to apply for welfare, ‘What do you need that money for?’ ” said Deidra Brooks, his mother.

Rich Audsley, special adviser to the 7/20 Recovery Committee, the group of local officials helping with the distribution of funds, said the committee was open to including representatives of victims and their families.

“The plan from the very beginning was to make sure we had input from the victims in this process,” he said.

Mr. Holmes, who has been charged with dozens of counts of murder and attempted murder, was a once-promising neuroscience student before dropping out of graduate school in June.

Students and faculty have described him as socially awkward and intensely isolated, and one classmate has said Mr. Holmes once implied that he suffered from a psychiatric condition called dysphoric mania.

Over the past month, prosecutors have sought to portray Mr. Holmes’s mounting academic problems as a possible motive for the attack, while his lawyers have countered that he is mentally ill.

At a hearing scheduled for Thursday, both sides are expected to argue over whether a notebook sent by Mr. Holmes to his psychiatrist around the time of the shootings falls under the aegis of patient-doctor confidentiality.

In the meantime, relatives of the victims said they would continue to push the relief fund and the disbursement committee to get the money to families faster and with more explanation.

“Evil started this. Good has to finish it,” Mr. Teves said.
813 2012-08-29 Tuesday was no different.

In the afternoon, Anne Keothavong of Britain slumped in a chair in front of a handful of reporters. Her match, a lopsided 6-2, 6-0 thrashing delivered by Angelique Kerber, might have ended badly. But at least it ended quickly, too, in 54 minutes.

Someone asked Keothavong if it was worth it, all the travel and practice and, in recent months, none of the corresponding results.

“I’ve been around long enough, and I’m experienced enough to know that tennis can be so fickle,” Keothavong said. “Losing matches doesn’t get any easier. You just have to keep putting yourself out there.”

She continued, as if she felt it necessary to point out: “Over all, I’m a pretty happy person. I’m not crying myself to sleep at night because I lost a tennis match.”

The defeated do not leave the grounds at Flushing Meadows empty-handed. Each first-round loser in the singles main draws earns $23,000 (and a Citizen wristwatch), or $4,000 more than in 2011. Most players who lost Tuesday also planned to play doubles, in which men’s or women’s teams will make at least $11,000 for the tournament and each mixed doubles team will make $5,000.

For some, those earnings will not cover the cost of travel, coaching and other expenses. Others said that under the right circumstances, they could break even. None of them had planned to lose that early, anyway.

It happens to the best players. Tuesday marked the 28th anniversary of Steffi Graf’s losing in the first round here. Of course, she was 15 and just beginning a Hall of Fame career. On Aug. 28, 1990, Stefan Edberg became the first top-seeded player to fall in the first round in 19 years.

Such early losses accumulated quickly Tuesday. It took 54 minutes for Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland to wallop Nina Bratchikova of Russia. Shortly after that, Kimiko Date-Krumm of Japan, the oldest player in the singles draw (42 next month), fell to Sofia Arvidsson of Sweden.

Date-Krumm made her United States Open debut in 1989, before 37 of this year’s qualifiers had been born. That year, she also lost in the first round.

So it went. Klara Zakopalova of the Czech Republic, seeded 24th, fell to her countrywoman Andrea Hlavackova. This marked Zakopalova’s ninth consecutive United States Open singles defeat. Afterward, she tried to explain how it felt to reporters, to show up at the same tournament and lose as early as possible for nine straight years.

She could not explain it. Nor is she alone.

On the men’s side, since 1968, 32 players have played in at least five first-round Grand Slam matches and won none. The retired Juan-Antonio Marín of Costa Rica went 0-17 in the first round at major tournaments.

On the flip side, David Goffin, a young, rising Belgian, had never lost his first match in a Grand Slam event — until Tuesday. In May at the French Open, Goffin charmed the tennis world when he sneaked into the singles draw as a so-called lucky loser, then advanced to the fourth round, where he won a set against Roger Federer.

On Tuesday, Goffin could not replicate that magic against Tomas Berdych, the sixth seed. Goffin became the 13th player to lose on Tuesday. “It was not easy,” he said.

Four hours into Tuesday’s action, 18 singles players had been defeated. While most planned to play doubles, they also hoped to go sightseeing in New York before they headed home. The flights, booked at the last minute, would be expensive.

Rhyne Williams, a 21-year-old American qualifier overwhelmed Tuesday by Andy Roddick, said he enjoyed the food in New York far more than Roddick’s serve. Williams, who comes from a tennis family and attended the University of Tennessee, played Roddick on Ashe, which meant his first first-round Grand Slam loss was memorable, if not ultimately a success.

For the defeated, the matches mostly ended the same way: a handshake with the opponent and the chair umpire, a short interview, a quick shower. Then most said they would watch the tournament, same as everybody else.

“It’s just the way it works,” Keothavong said, defeated. “Someone has to lose.”
814 2012-08-29 While Catalonia, the home of Barcelona, has traditionally been among Spain’s most prosperous and industrial regions — accounting for almost a fifth of the country’s economic output — it has also accumulated 42 billion euros in debt, the highest among Spanish regions. Catalonia’s credit rating was downgraded recently, and it has been shut out of the debt markets.

Last week, Fedea, a Spanish research group, forecast in a study that the country’s regions would end this year with a combined deficit of 2.2 percent of gross domestic product, rather than the 1.5 percent target set by Mr. Rajoy’s government.

Mr. Rajoy on Tuesday expressed confidence that Spain’s economic situation would be much better in 2013 and that its budgetary imbalances would be overcome.

But Spain’s national statistics institute this week reduced its economic readings for both 2010 and 2011, indicating that Spain went into recession during the fourth quarter of 2011, one quarter earlier than originally estimated. The revised data also indicated that the Spanish economy contracted 0.4 percent in the second quarter of this year from the previous three months.

Despite signs of a deeper recession, the government has so far stuck to budgetary targets that anticipate an economic contraction of 1.5 percent this year and 0.5 percent in 2013.

The fund from which Catalonia is requesting aid is still being assembled. Of the 18 billion euro total, 6 billion euros is to come from the national lottery, with the remainder drawn from the Treasury with the backing of a banking syndicate.

Luis de Guindos, the economy minister, said last week in an interview that the fund would soon be ready and that recipient regions would still be expected to meet their budgetary goals.

“At the end of the day, we are not going to let any region go down,” he said. “But liquidity will come with strong conditionality.” Regions, he added, “will have to carry out the fiscal consolidation that has been agreed.”

Mr. de Guindos also said he expected the extra capital needs of Spanish banks to reach about 60 billion euros, rather than the 100 billion euros agreed to in June by Europe’s finance ministers.

But data released Tuesday suggested that Spanish banks continue to weaken. Private clients have recently been withdrawing money from Spanish banks at a higher rate than in previous months, with deposits falling 4.6 percent in July from a month earlier.

The regions’ financial problems have created tension with the government in Madrid. Some regional politicians have openly challenged the austerity measures recently announced by Mr. Rajoy, including plans to scrap access to free health services for illegal immigrants. Among their main tasks, the regions are in charge of health and education spending in Spain.

Relations have been particularly strained between the Catalan regional government in Barcelona and Mr. Rajoy’s administration, fueling a long-running argument over the degree of fiscal and political autonomy that Catalonia should be granted.

Francesc Homs, the spokesman for the Catalan government, said Tuesday that his government would not accept any “political conditionality” attached to the granting of the funds.

In response, Mr. Rajoy said: “The government will help Catalonia, as it has done on many other occasions.”

The national government additionally faces a struggle to meet its own refinancing obligations, though Spain’s borrowing costs have recently receded from their record highs of late July, after a pledge by Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, that the central bank would “do whatever it takes to preserve the euro as a stable currency.”

On Tuesday, the Spanish Treasury sold 3.6 billion euros of bills at much lower interest rates than a month ago. For example, the rate paid on three-month bills was 0.946 percent, down from 2.434 percent a month ago.
815 2012-08-29 The day had started routinely enough, with second-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska needing just 54 minutes to polish off the first match in Ashe Stadium, against Nina Bratchikova of Russia, 6-1, 6-1. The morning’s rain had given way to a brilliant, if breezy, afternoon, so the players were not so much battling the conditions as they were battling themselves.

Raonic, the 15th seed, finished his match red-faced and relieved, having resurrected his game after losing the second and third sets. When asked how tired he was, he said, “A bit more mentally than I was physically.”

Raonic had several break chances in the fifth set and finally capitalized to close out the match. At 21, Raonic has shouldered huge expectations the past few years but has fallen short in the Grand Slam events. His best result was reaching the fourth round of the Australian Open in 2011.

“I’ve just got to keep fighting and find a way,” Raonic said. “I’ve got to put a lot of things aside. A lot of things at Grand Slams are not always pretty, but I’ve got to put those things aside and just go win the matches.”

No one knows that better than Roddick, who is facing his 30th birthday in the coming days as he surveys a career expected to hold so much more than his one Grand Slam victory here in 2003. He wryly observed that tournament organizers generally hand him a young American for his first-round match, as if anyone needed reminding about Roddick’s promising start. Roddick gave his 21-year-old opponent a nod for handling his side well, particularly because he had to advance through qualifying.

“He did it the hard way, he didn’t get a wild card,” Roddick said. “He did a great job. Hopefully we’ll see a lot more of him.”

As for how much we will see of Roddick as his career winds toward a close, he just said, “I just want to be around until next week and then we’ll renegotiate.”

There are others, of course, who have found themselves toiling futilely in the Big Three era of men’s tennis as Roddick has. Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France has been among them for a few years, threatening but never cracking their glass ceiling. Seeded fifth here and playing in a city he enjoys, he is left hoping this is his time.

A 6-3, 6-1, 7-6 (2) victory over Karol Beck of Slovakia was a necessary step, but not where Tsonga has generally faltered. That comes against the triumvirate of Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic, which has ruled the game in this era.

“I think I still have to improve a lot of things in my game,” he said. “I have to move a bit better to win against these guys, so I work on it. But, you know, they are unbelievable and it’s tough. Every year I’m better and better on the court. I hope one time, I will break this series of victories of these guys.”

As he well knows, so much of it lies in the expectations and how to handle them.
816 2012-08-29 Navy officers note the seasonal ebb and flow of piracy attacks in the region, influenced by the twice-yearly monsoons, and they warn that in October and November the waters and winds tend to be calmer and that pirate raids increase. But the statistics for 2012 are far below what could be explained by weather alone.

The decrease in attacks appears to be a result of increased security measures taken by commercial vessels and of sustained antipiracy patrols by the navies of more than a dozen nations, including the United States.

Admiral Fox said the shipping industry “can take a great deal of credit” for the trend. More commercial vessels are carrying “embarked security teams” of armed guards, he said, and no vessel with such a team on board has been hijacked.

Commercial ship captains are also following recommendations that they sail in international transit corridors that the navies patrol. More ships are taking measures to make it difficult for pirates to climb aboard from the waterline.

And American and European forces have conducted a handful of high-profile counterpiracy raids in which hostages have been freed and pirates have been killed or captured. Officials say those raids may be acting as a deterrent.

The effect can be seen in the busy Gulf of Aden, a hunting ground favored by pirates before the United States and other nations began patrolling a 460-mile-long shipping corridor through it. “It is now one of the safest” areas, Admiral Fox said.

The multinational counterpiracy effort, called Combined Task Force 151, was organized in 2009 and operates in and around the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arabian Sea and other areas of the Indian Ocean, with 25 to 30 warships on patrol on any given day. Overseeing the task force is Combined Maritime Forces, which is based in Bahrain along with the Navy’s Fifth Fleet. Command of the task force unit itself rotates among participating nations, and it has been held by the United States, Denmark, Pakistan, Thailand, Turkey and, most recently, South Korea.

The task force coordinates its efforts with other counterpiracy missions in the region operated by NATO and European Union members, and a number of other nations send out patrols independently.

“Piracy is like an ancient disease that should be extinct in this modern world,” said Commodore Simon Ancona of the British Navy, who is currently deputy commander of Combined Maritime Forces. “The cure is difficult and requires the disruption of pirate actions, building law and order and livelihoods ashore, and making the merchant prey less vulnerable. Although there are signs of remission, I would judge the medicine will be required for some time to come.”

Somali pirates in particular have hijacked hundreds of vessels in the past few years, ranging from the sailboat of a retired British couple to a 1,000-foot supertanker.

East African pirates routinely hold seized vessels and hostages for ransom that can run to hundreds of millions of dollars. Commercial shipping officials say that Somali pirates alone cause an additional $5 billion a year in expenses for insurance and security, with piracy in other regions adding billions more to the cost.
817 2012-08-29 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — The American banking industry’s earnings rose 20.7 percent in the second quarter, as banks set aside less money to guard against losses and increased lending, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reported Tuesday.

But revenue growth remained sluggish, said the F.D.I.C.’s acting chairman, Martin Gruenberg, as JPMorgan Chase’s multibillion-dollar trading loss weighed on the quarter’s results.

The F.D.I.C. quarterly report showed the banking industry earned $34.5 billion in the second quarter, up $5.9 billion from a year earlier. The amount banks set aside to guard against losses reached a five-year low, declining $5 billion or 26 percent from the second quarter of 2011.

Banks increased lending during the second quarter by $102 billion, or 1.4 percent, after curbing lending in the first quarter. Mr. Gruenberg called the shift encouraging.

“The banking industry continued to make gradual but steady progress toward recovery in the second quarter,” Mr. Gruenberg said. But he cautioned that “we will have to wait and see if the trend toward increased lending can be sustained.”
818 2012-08-29 The stock market, in another day of extremely light summer trading, barely budged on Tuesday after mixed economic data gave investors little reason to shift their focus away from the speech that the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is scheduled to give on Friday.

It is then, during a conference of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that Mr. Bernanke could announce new measures to stimulate economic growth. While Mr. Bernanke is expected to keep alive expectations that the Fed might undertake a third round of major bond-buying, known as quantitative easing, he could keep markets guessing about the actual timing.

Trading volume was among the lightest of the year after the market had its slowest full day of 2012 on Monday. August is normally slow, and investors mostly stayed on the sidelines.

“I don’t think you can read a lot from what’s going on in the market right now,” said John Fox, co-manager of the FAM Value Fund. “Because there’s nothing going on. Everyone is waiting for the speech on Friday.”

In an encouraging report, the Standard & Poor’s/Case Shiller composite index of 20 metropolitan areas showed home prices nationally inched up in June compared with their levels from a year ago, a sign of slow improvement in the housing sector.
819 2012-08-29 Ten years after Suzan-Lori Parks's dark comedy "Topdog/Underdog" won the Pulitzer Prize for drama, Ms. Parks will be directing a new production of the play at  Two River Theater Company  in Red Bank, N.J. this fall. The show begins performances on...
820 2012-08-29 Pepper Hamilton, the corporate law firm, has acquired the investigative group and legal practice run by Louis J. Freeh, the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.   The deal, announced on Tuesday, highlights the growing business o...
821 2012-08-29 Add the Frank Wildhorn musical "Jekyll & Hyde" to the list of shows being revived on Broadway not long after their last appearance there.   A 25-week national tour of "Jekyll & Hyde" will begin this fall and then come to the Richard Rodgers Theate...
822 2012-08-29 Late on Monday afternoon, the first official day of play in the 2012  United States Open , Katrina Williams, 21, was sitting in the top row of a side court at the  Billie Jean King National Tennis Center  in Queens.   The day had a leisurely feel ...
823 2012-08-29 7:54 p.m. | Updated In a big upset in the men's doubles draw at the United States Open on Tuesday, the brothers Ryan and Christian Harrison of the United States, ranked 88th and 1,025th in doubles respectively, defeated fourth-seeded Mariusz Fyrst...
824 2012-08-30 A look at Thursday’s action in the United States Open tennis tournament at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens....
825 2012-08-30 A new report on popular coastal retreats say these areas are some of the most susceptible to the effects of climate change and may look very different, very soon....
826 2012-08-30 David H. Koch opens up about his support of conservative caucuses....
827 2012-08-30 Apple has rejected an iPhone app that puts United States drone strikes on an interactive map because it ran afoul of Apple’s rules on objectionable content....
828 2012-08-30 August 30, 2012 - A discussion with Representative Tom Price on the Republican's health care plan.
829 2012-08-30 Credit Suisse has hired Matthew Hind as the head of its Canada metals and mining business in its investment banking department, the firm announced in an internal memorandum reviewed by DealBook....
830 2012-08-30 Early apples are even earlier this year, but less red and crunchy....
831 2012-08-30 Kim Clijsters is retiring and the Williams sisters are nearing the end of their careers. Who will fill the void in Women's tennis? Lynn Zinser reports from Flushing.
832 2012-08-30 Open dining strategy advice: head to the New Delhi Spice booth and avoid the crowd....
833 2012-08-30 A flier for a Brooklyn candidate for the State Assembly referred to "our negrohood," instead of "our neighborhood."...
834 2012-08-30 The Financial Stability Oversight Council can use a part of Dodd-Frank, called Title VIII, to address regulation of the plumbing of the financial system....
835 2012-08-30 Mr. Bowie said his archives had given access to the Victoria and Albert Museum for a exhibition of his costumes, but that he was not a co-curator of the project and did not participate in its decision-making process....
836 2012-08-30 California tests its carbon emissions cap-and-trade program. | The best shoes for travel? Ask a flight attendant....
837 2012-08-30 California tests its carbon emissions cap-and-trade program. | The best shoes for travel? Ask a flight attendant.
838 2012-08-30 A 74-year-old man opened fire on his wife as she prepared to start work at a Staten Island bowling alley on Wednesday morning, the police said. No one was hurt.

Maureen Tritto, 48, was opening the snack bar at Rab’s Country Lanes in Dongan Park when her husband, Armando Tritto, entered through the back door, according to Frank Wilkinson, the owner. Two other employees were present. Mr. Wilkinson called the episode “an isolated domestic dispute.”

When Mr. Tritto began shooting, Ms. Tritto locked herself in a storage area, the police said. Mr. Tritto fled the scene and was arrested a short distance away, they said. He complained of chest pains and was taken to Staten Island University Hospital.

He was charged with attempted assault, criminal possession of a weapon, resisting arrest and other offenses.

Mr. Wilkinson declined to comment on whether the Trittos were separated. But on a Facebook page listed as Ms. Tritto’s, there was a posting that read: “Maybe you think you can hurt me ... but you will never break me.”

On Aug. 15, Ms. Tritto wrote that she had purchased a MetroCard for the first time in her life and was taking the bus to work. In the “About” section, she described her “fabulous husband,” “gorgeous children” and “incredible job.”
839 2012-08-30 Hitler is a "good, catchy" name for a shop, owner says....
840 2012-08-30 Pension problems and government gridlock earned Illinois another reduction in its credit rating on Wednesday. Standard & Poor’s said it lowered the rating a notch because of “weak pension funding levels and lack of action on reform measures.” The firm also said the financial outlook for Illinois is negative, in part because the state’s temporary income tax is scheduled to expire in 2015. Lower ratings can raise the interest rate a state must pay to borrow money. The downgrade, from A+ to A, leaves Illinois with the nation’s second-lowest rating from S&P. California is rated A-, but it has earned a “positive outlook” from the firm. Gov. Pat Quinn said that the downgrade was no surprise but that it served as evidence that state leaders must fix public pension systems. Illinois’s retirement systems have a roughly $85 billion gap between money available and what they will eventually pay out in pensions. The shortfall is the largest in the country.
841 2012-08-30 If his vigorous support for shrinking the size and role of government has left the party exposed to withering attacks from Mr. Obama and the Democrats, it did not seem to cause concern. Rather, Mr. Ryan ran headlong into the fire he expects to draw.

Mr. Ryan made it clear that he would portray the Romney-Ryan ticket as protecting Medicare, not “raiding it,” as he said Democrats would, saying his own mother’s reliance on the program should be proof of his commitment to it.

“A Romney-Ryan administration will protect and strengthen Medicare, for my mom’s generation, for my generation, and for my kids and yours,” he said. “So our opponents can consider themselves on notice. In this election, on this issue, the usual posturing on the left isn’t going to work. Mitt Romney and I know the difference between protecting a program and raiding it.” Mr. Ryan’s final line — which included the declaration “We can make the safety net safe again” — brought a cheer resembling something like a last-minute goal in overtime of a championship game.

The night gave the first real answer about what sort of wingman Mr. Ryan will be for Mr. Romney. He showed that he was more than willing to go after Mr. Obama, using a mocking tone often laced with humor.

“College graduates should not have to live out their 20s in their childhood bedrooms, staring up at fading Obama posters and wondering when they can move out and get going with life,” he said midway through his speech, eliciting laughter and delighted applause.

But he also showed that he would serve as a steadfast advocate for Mr. Romney, pivoting between the two messages.

“He helped start businesses and turn around failing ones,” Mr. Ryan said of Mr. Romney. “By the way, being successful in business — that’s a good thing.”

Mr. Ryan playfully referred to the generational gap between him and Mr. Romney, who watched the speech with his family at a nearby . But when it came to what the new ticket has cast as the most pressing issue facing the nation, reining in the surging costs of social programs, Mr. Ryan portrayed their approach as a politically brave effort “to meet serious challenges in a serious way, without excuses and idle words.”

Mr. Romney’s aides have said they believe that antipathy for Mr. Obama’s has upended the political dynamic of Medicare in way that tilts the presumed advantage away from the Democrats. Mr. Ryan’s speech reflected that thinking.

“Obamacare comes to more than two thousand pages of rules, mandates, , fees and fines that have no place in a free country,” he said. “And the biggest, coldest power play of all in Obamacare came at the expense of the elderly.”

Mr. Ryan was referring to a provision of the health law that cuts more than $700 billion in projected spending from the Medicare program. Mr. Ryan’s budget assumes similar reductions, a point Democrats will be certain to continue making in the weeks ahead.

Likewise, Mr. Ryan, whose deep budget-cutting plans drew intense criticism from Mr. Obama long before the Republican ticket was completed, accused the president of failing to act on the recommendations of his own bipartisan . Mr. Ryan did not mention that he had served on that commission and dissented from its policy proposals, which included specific steps to reduce budget deficits.

But that was of no concern to the audience, whose raucous reception of Mr. Ryan was a resounding affirmation of his popularity with conservatives who have at times shown less enthusiasm for Mr. Romney.

It was Mr. Ryan’s first turn on a truly national stage, and in many ways he was a marked contrast to his party’s vice-presidential nominee of four years ago, of . Mr. Ryan formally took his place on the ticket with a well-established reputation as a policy expert, with years of experience in Washington and with few surprises lurking in his past.

But in other ways he is a bigger risk for Mr. Romney than Ms. Palin was for Senator in 2008 because he represents a set of substantive policy positions that even his own party shied away from until the last year or two.

Mr. McCain addressed the convention earlier Wednesday and got a somewhat subdued reaction as he declared, “Our president is not being true to our values,” adding,  “I trust Mitt Romney to lead us.”

But two hours later, , national security adviser and secretary of state under President , brought the crowd to its feet several times in a rare foray into electoral politics, even reprising Republican accusations that Mr. Obama has failed to project American strength, saying, “We cannot be reluctant to lead — and one cannot lead from behind.”

Mr. Bush did not come to the convention, appearing in an emotional video that was part tribute to his father, the 41st president, with whom he reminisced while at the family vacation home in , Me., and part endorsement of Mr. Romney.

In some respects, though, the party continued to reject the domestic legacy of the Bush years. The younger Mr. Bush has fallen out of favor with the party’s fiscally hawkish base, which now views many of his policies as irresponsibly costly.

Mr. Ryan gave a nod to that. “In a clean break from the Obama years, and frankly from the years before this president, we will keep federal spending at 20 percent of G.D.P., or less,” he said. “That is enough.”
842 2012-08-30 It was, since it is still not clear if the Pirates’ success this year is really believable. And Pirates fans themselves were sending mixed signals on whether they thought a team that has not even had a winning record for two decades was going to hang in there.

The Pirates had sold out their series against the Milwaukee Brewers last weekend, and over all, attendance is up by about 100,000 fans this season. But the first two games against the Cardinals drew just over 17,000 fans apiece, a measly total for what is close enough to pennant race baseball.

Excuses were quickly offered, with some noting that the school year had begun on Monday.

But an elevator operator at Pittsburgh’s PNC Park scoffed at that explanation. “St. Louis would be drawing lots more fans for these games,” he said.

As they faced off, the clubs appeared headed in opposite directions. With a 48-37 record at the All-Star break, Pittsburgh led its division by one game, over Cincinnati, and led the Cardinals by two and a half. Then came the skid, somewhat reminiscent of what happened in July 2011, when the Pirates lost 12 of 13 games to fall out of contention. They eventually finished under .500 — again.

St. Louis, meanwhile, arrived in Pittsburgh having won 7 of 10 and seeming primed for another playoff push. A late hot streak earned the Cardinals a playoff slot on the last day of the 2011 season and propelled them to the franchise’s 11th World Series title.

That kind of success is a foreign concept to many Pittsburgh fans, especially younger ones.

“I think they’ll get to .500, but I don’t think they’ll make it to the playoffs,” Jenna Foster, a young skeptic at 14, said of the Pirates as she strolled with some friends through the stadium concourse during Tuesday’s game.

Still, her T-shirt displayed the team’s latest inspiration: the Z sign formed by sideways hands whose thumbs touch. Catcher Rod Barajas and shortstop Clint Barmes started the fad, inspired by the character Zoltan in the film “Dude, Where’s My Car?”

Later, Foster craned her neck to see the Pirates star Andrew McCutchen pulling into second base with a double; he flashed a Z sign, and the crowd cheered. The fans roared louder a moment later, when Pedro Alvarez homered to left to stretch Pittsburgh’s lead to 3-0.

McCutchen is 25, and with a .344 batting average in his fourth season, he is a candidate for the National League’s Most Valuable Player award. Alvarez is also 25, and with 26 home runs this season, he is making an impact with the Pirates in his third season.

“These young kids — Clint makes them believe they belong in the big leagues and can compete against anybody,” Manny Sanguillen, a catcher on the 1971 and 1979 championship Pirates teams, said Monday of Manager Clint Hurdle.

To Sanguillen, the team’s futility streak “is over,” regardless of how September plays out.

“It’s now 2012,” he said. “You look back, and you’re frozen. You have to look ahead.”

As he watched Monday’s game, his old team scored two runs in the bottom of the fourth inning. But St. Louis came right back with four runs combined in the fifth and sixth innings to beat Pittsburgh’s ace, A. J. Burnett, 4-3. The Pirates fell another game out in the wild-card chase.

But on Tuesday night, Pittsburgh rebounded, roughing up St. Louis starter Jake Westbrook for 11 hits and 7 runs in a 9-0 blowout.

Before Tuesday’s game, several Cardinals pondered the Pirates’ fortunes and whether the team might just fade away in the final weeks of the season. Some felt the Pirates would not.

“They have guys over there who can lead by example,” pitcher Adam Wainwright said, citing the World Series experience of Burnett and Hurdle.

Third baseman David Freese, who was the 2011 World Series most valuable player, said, “With what we did last year, it shows that anything’s possible.”

Sitting at his locker nearby, catcher Yadier Molina said he put less weight on the series with Pittsburgh than others did.

“You have to take care of business and not worry about the other side,” Molina said while polishing his mitt. Asked about momentum, which the Pirates have been searching for, Molina turned and looked up. His right thigh sported a pronounced red welt.

“I believe in playing the game the right way; if you do, positive things will happen to you,” he said. “Momentum? I don’t know. Every night you have to come ready to play.”

That night, Molina’s words held true, but for his opponents. Hurdle called the Pirates’ lopsided win the team’s best all-around game this season. Hurdle mentioned starter James McDonald’s “top-shelf” pitching performance in yielding just two hits in seven innings and Alvarez’s four hits in five at-bats, including two home runs.

And then there was Josh Harrison’s violent crash into Molina while attempting unsuccessfully to score on a second-inning single. Molina left the game with a sore back, neck and shoulder.

“I hope Molina’s not hurt,” Hurdle told reporters of the collision, which he called “an old-fashioned baseball play,” one he said could give the Pirates a spark.

But beyond that, Hurdle was not making any promises. “This,” Hurdle said as he left a postgame briefing, “was the most important game we’ve played all day.”

On Wednesday night, Hurdle’s Pirates again beat St. Louis, 5-0, behind starter Wandy Rodriguez, who allowed three hits in six innings, and Alvarez, who hit a three-run homer and a double. The win gave the Pirates the 15-game season series with the Cardinals, 8-7, and drew them closer in the playoff hunt.

With just two more victories in 2012, the Pirates will equal last season’s total of 72. Hurdle no doubt plans for his team to win many more important games.

Maybe even some in October.
843 2012-08-30 A former journalist with Rupert Murdoch’s Times of London newspaper was arrested Wednesday on suspicion of computer hacking during his time there, Scotland Yard said in a statement. The man, whom the British news media identified as Patrick Foster, was questioned “about alleged computer hacking relating to the identification of a previously anonymous blogger in 2009,” the statement said. It said he was also suspected of obstructing justice.

The Times of London, which has tried to hold itself above the scandals that have roiled its sister newspapers in Britain, admitted this year at a public inquiry that it had hacked the e-mail account of Richard Horton, a police officer who had started an anonymous tell-all blog about his work. The newspaper revealed his identity in 2009. A spokeswoman for the Times of London’s parent company, News International, said the company would have no comment.
844 2012-08-30 SINCE Sept. 11, 2001, the American government, under two presidents, has taken unprecedented steps to ensure the safety of its citizens. Unfortunately, more than a decade later, a major flaw in our national security remains, leaving millions of Americans at risk. It’s a flaw that policy makers have known about for years but not yet done enough to fix.

Hundreds of chemical plants and other facilities maintain large stockpiles of dangerous substances and are in or near major American cities like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, as well as many smaller but no less important towns. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, a deliberate release of these chemicals at just one of these plants could threaten the health and lives of hundreds of thousands of people.

In the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks, there was bipartisan support for addressing the vulnerabilities posed by these chemicals. After all, even small chemical accidents involving poison gas can result in the evacuation of an entire community. As the head of the E.P.A. at the time, I knew what could happen, if a terrorist were to target a chlorine gas facility, to the hundreds of thousands of people living downwind. This knowledge spurred the agency to take action.

We considered using existing authority in the Clean Air Act to reduce the vulnerability of chemical facilities to acts of terrorism, primarily by requiring facilities to evaluate the use of safer chemicals and processes. After considerable internal discussion, however, we decided that the best way forward was to enact legislation that would give the E.P.A. additional authority to do so. Unfortunately, and much to my frustration, after a long, multiagency effort, the White House declined to endorse a draft bill, and Congress did not act on its own.

This has now become a 10-year battle. Today, Congress is hopelessly gridlocked on extending the inadequate homeland security appropriations statute that currently regulates the industry.

And yet I am encouraged, because the E.P.A., under its current administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, is once again seriously considering addressing chemical facility security. In March, the National Environmental Justice Advisory Council urged the agency to “use its authority under the 1990 Clean Air Act ... to reduce or eliminate these catastrophic risks.” This is the right thing to do, and it is a step that the E.P.A. could take right now. All the agency needs is the support from President Obama to use its Clean Air Act authority.
845 2012-08-30 Through Sept. 3, many kitchen, bath, storage, garden and other home accessories are up to 65 percent off at Casa.com (Black+Blum’s lunch pot in green, regularly $22, is about $18; Kosta Boda’s Mine tumbler, regularly $25, is $20); (855) 687-2272, casa.com.

Hable Construction is discounting bushel storage containers in new prints by 40 percent through Sept. 21 (a turquoise Rope bushel, originally $275, is $165; a charcoal Cosmos bushel, originally $275 is $165); (718) 834-1752, hableconstruction.com.

Through Sept. 22, Calico is discounting fabric, furniture and window treatments at some stores by 20 percent (custom upholstered queen headboards, shown, usually starting at $816 plus fabric, are about $653 plus fabric; the Saratoga chair in Gianni/Prussian and Feuilles/Azure fabric, usually $1,478, is about $1,182; the Burton chair in Koi/Indigo fabric, usually $2,399, is about $1,919); (800) 213-6366, calicocorners.com.

Good deals may be reported to deals@nytimes.com.
846 2012-08-30 “It means everything,” Baker said. “Everybody knows I’ve gone through a hard time. I was probably a little more nervous today than I’d like to have been. But seven years is a long time.”

Somewhere in all the pain and frustration, Baker, who since January has lifted his ranking to 70 from 458, has fashioned a remarkable comeback. He received more good news after his victory when he discovered that his next opponent, eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic, needed five sets to win his first-round match against Guillaume Rufin.

Still, Baker has no illusions that his journey will suddenly be easy.

“I haven’t really played him,” Baker said of Tipsarevic. “I think I played him in junior Wimbledon when I was 15. He doesn’t have to win in straight sets. He can win in five sets because he’s in great shape. When I get opportunities, I’m going to have to be aggressive and step up. I’m going to have to serve better than I did today.”

Baker advanced despite a 61 percentage mark on first serves. But all of that was mere details when he thought about what it meant just to be here.

“I remember several years watching it on TV, wishing I was here, so just to be here is an awesome feeling,” Baker said. “And then at the same time, the competitive side kicks over and I want to do really well.”

Isner tried to claim he was also just happy to be moving on after dispatching Malisse, but he seemed to be convincing himself there was no more than the usual pressure on him here.

He had to work hard to keep Malisse at bay, even though Malisse seemed to be coming apart at the seams. He carried on a running discussion with the umpire, with noisy fans, and at times, with himself. Four sets in, he resembled the crazy guy inevitably encountered on the 7 train at rush hour.

But Malisse was still battling, sending two sets to tiebreakers. That is Isner’s specialty, however. He leads the world in tiebreaker victories, and his record in them this season is 37-13. Malisse, in contrast, is 9-10.

“I’ve had a lot of practice, obviously,” deadpanned Isner, who won tournaments in Newport, R.I., and Winston-Salem, N.C., this summer. “Last week I won a tiebreaker at the end to win the tournament, and it gave me a lot of confidence. I wish I could make it a little easier on myself. I tend to not to, as people know.”

At least, however, Isner did offer the Ashe Stadium crowd something to linger on and cheer for after two and a half days of uncompetitive matches.

Before him on Ashe, Victoria Azarenka continued the trend of highly seeded players having little trouble, storming through her match against Kirsten Flipkens. Azarenka, ranked No. 1, needed all of 65 minutes to win, 6-2, 6-2.

She happily collected the easy victory and became a little more used to the wind that buffeted the stadium court, knowing her hard work is still ahead. As the top seed for the first time, she knows that, like Isner, she is going to have to work harder to impress people.

“The expectations are higher for sure,” Azarenka said. “There is a lot more attention. People expect you to play better.

“For me, I always take it match by match, no matter where it is, what my ranking is. I have been doing it for pretty much my whole career. I try to stay humble and focused.”

No. 4 David Ferrer, not known for short matches, got through his first-round match relatively quickly with a 6-4, 6-2, 7-6 (3) victory over Kevin Anderson. Juan Martín del Potro, the No. 7 seed, knocked out Florent Serra, 6-4, 7-6 (4), 6-4. Serra, a lucky loser from the qualifying tournament, earned a spot in the match on Wednesday morning because del Potro’s scheduled opponent, David Nalbandian, withdrew.

Elsewhere in the women’s draw, Petra Kvitova, the fifth seed, enjoyed an easy victory over Alize Cornet, 6-4, 6-3. Li Na, the No. 9 seed, defeated Casey Dellacqua, 6-4, 6-4.
847 2012-08-30 “With this cabinet reshuffling, President Karzai is trying to consolidate his grip on power,” said Jawid Kohistani, a security analyst based in Kabul. “He is not thinking only about his remaining two years in office. He has long-term plans, and this reshuffling is just the first step. Indeed, he wants to have full control over all government apparatuses to make sure that whoever from his team runs for president in the upcoming elections wins.”

Mr. Karzai’s aides confirmed Wednesday that the current head of the spy agency, Rahmatullah Nabil, will leave that job and become an ambassador to a foreign country. But Karzai aides declined to speak about any new cabinet appointments.

The men identified as the probable appointments were not likely to raise objections from the government’s Western supporters, some officials said. But at least two of the choices come along with some controversy.

Mr. Khalid, the likely new spy chief, is an influential confidant of Mr. Karzai, who delegated to him significant power over security in southern Afghanistan after Ahmed Wali Karzai, the president’s brother, was assassinated last year. Lately Mr. Khalid, who also serves as minister of tribal and border affairs, has been leading the government’s efforts to support uprisings against the Taliban in Ghazni Province, where the head of the provincial council, Qazi Sahim Shah, was fatally shot on Wednesday evening in what local officials said may have been retribution by insurgents.

His appointment to lead the National Directorate of Security could prove controversial in some quarters, especially with human rights groups: While seen as a committed enemy of the Taliban, Mr. Khalid was also removed from his job as governor of Kandahar Province in 2008 amid accusations of human rights abuses and corruption. He has denied those accusations, and his allies called them politically motivated.

Reached for comment, Mr. Khalid insisted that, despite rumors circulating through the capital all week that he had been chosen, he had not been officially contacted yet.

Appointing Mr. Mohammadi as defense minister would seem a direct provocation of Parliament, but it may also be a way for Mr. Karzai to keep one of the country’s most powerful Tajik officials in his political camp.

Mr. Mohammadi, who has also served previously as chief of staff for the Afghan Army, angered many other politicians by aggressively filling major security posts with other Tajiks from Panjshir, the province northeast of Kabul that was a stronghold of the Northern Alliance against the Taliban. An official in his office declined to comment on reports of his nomination on Wednesday, saying that “it is his personal business.”

But it was clear to Mr. Kohistani, the security analyst, why Mr. Karzai might risk the wrath of Parliament by renominating Mr. Mohammadi. “President Karzai cannot let go of Bismillah Khan because he doesn’t want to add him to the ranks of his opponents,” Mr. Kohistani said. “He will do whatever it takes to keep him.”

The immediate catalyst for the national security reshuffle was the vote by Parliament this month to dismiss the defense minister, Abdul Rahim Wardak, as well as Mr. Mohammadi.

Members of Parliament complained of problems, including what they said was a failure to respond effectively to cross-border attacks from militants in Pakistan and corruption in contracting procedures.

But Parliament may have also acted because members were frustrated that their recommendations for appointments had not been taken into account and that they had not received their fair share of contracts.

Mr. Mohammadi “was already disqualified once by Parliament, and I don’t think he will gain a vote of confidence again,” said Daud Kalakani, an influential lawmaker who said that he and other Parliament members had been informed of the nominee choices by Mr. Karzai’s minister of parliamentary affairs.

Mr. Patang, who does not have the sort of deep political or ethnic power base that ministers often possess, is seen as a competent, long-serving police official and someone whom Mr. Karzai can control. His new job would be crucial in ensuring fair elections.

In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Patang said he had not spoken to Mr. Karzai directly but had learned about the decision from the news media and the minister of parliamentary affairs.

On Wednesday, the international coalition announced that an attacker in an Afghan Army uniform had killed three NATO personnel members in southern Afghanistan the day before. A wave of similar insider attacks has increased tensions between the Afghan security forces and the foreign troops working with them.
848 2012-08-30 BLUEWEISS--Jeffrey Alan, 56 passed at his Trumbull, CT home on August 29th at 1:47pm. Beloved husband of Lynn, proud father to Marissa, Allyson and Brett. Brother to Karen and Bruce. Jeffrey was a very accomplished trial attorney who graduated wit...
849 2012-08-30 The tight-lipped world of hedge funds might soon be able to speak more freely.   The  Securities and Exchange Commission  on Wednesday proposed rules that would remove a longtime prohibition against general solicitation by hedge funds, a huge chan...
850 2012-08-30 Congress has eased demands that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York turn over thousands of documents that detail interest rate manipulation at big banks, whittling down the request and granting the regulator more time.   The reprieve will afford ...
851 2012-08-30 TAMPA, Fla. -- Representative  Paul D. Ryan  of Wisconsin, whose budget plans have come to define conservative opposition to President Obama's governing philosophy, accepted the Republican vice-presidential nomination on Wednesday as his party emb...
852 2012-08-31 The Giants' roster was further trimmed Friday, with cornerback Terrell Thomas out for the year with a knee injury....
853 2012-08-31 Credit: Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times
854 2012-08-31 Credit: Ben Solomon for The New York Times
855 2012-08-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
856 2012-08-31 The wheelchair racer Joshua George contrasts the embrace of the Paralympic Games by people in London with the news media coverage of the event in the United States....
857 2012-08-31 AMR Corp., the parent company of American Airlines, agreed to open up its books to US Airways Group. The non-disclosure agreement could pave the way for US Airways to buy the bankrupt airline. Read more »...
858 2012-08-31 A proposed twin-reactor plant in Texas and another planned project in Maryland, with a French connection, have become victims of tough economic and regulatory times....
859 2012-08-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
860 2012-08-31 The compact sedan sacrificed 10 horsepower, but the reduction may not be felt by drivers, given it also lost 150 pounds....
861 2012-08-31 How luxury real estate became a safe haven for wealth. | The burden of student debt, with no relief in sight. | Adding jobs, but with low pay and few prospects....
862 2012-08-31 How luxury real estate became a safe haven for wealth. | The burden of student debt, with no relief in sight. | Adding jobs, but with low pay and few prospects.
863 2012-08-31 The former boiler house of a textile mill now serves as an antique and design shop....
864 2012-08-31 Current electoral lists for Pakistan’s next general election may be short 20 million eligible voters....
865 2012-08-31 The U.S. under-20 women's national team defeated North Korea, 2-1, in extra time Friday to advance to the semifinals of the World Cup in Japan....
866 2012-08-31 Two researchers have spent the summer chasing an elusive surveillance tool from Bahrain across five continents, Nicole Perlroth reports on Friday in The New York Times. What they found was the widespread use of sophisticated, off-the-shelf compute...
867 2012-08-31 The spiritual leader of Lebanon's Shiites disappeared 34 years ago on Friday. As the community faces a spillover from the conflict in Syria that threatens the rule of its traditional patron, Bashar al-Assad, some politicians may have an interest i...
868 2012-08-31 Among the highlights Friday are Andy Roddick's first match since he announced his retirement, Laura Robson's next test against Li Na, and Brian Baker's challenge against Janko Tipsarevic....
869 2012-08-31 As Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany arrived in China for a high-profile visit, the dissident artist Ai Weiwei was watching - and waiting....
870 2012-08-31 Strange and sneaky and driven by a fury that only slowly reveals itself, “The Tall Man” opens like a ghost story and closes with its feet firmly in the real world. Until then, Pascal Laugier’s chilly little thriller manhandles our sympathies and gladdens our eyes in almost equal measure.

For years children have been disappearing from Cold Rock, a depressed mining town. Jumpy residents whisper about a mysterious stranger who snatches little ones in the dead of night, while Julia (a deglamorized Jessica Biel), the town’s widowed nurse, ministers to those who remain. Then, in one breathtakingly creepy sequence, Julia’s own toddler is taken, and the story appears to lose its mind. It will eventually return, though probably not in the way you expect.

Like an early Stephen King novella, “The Tall Man” buzzes with small-town secrets and downtrodden paranoia. Here the unemployed gather in conspiratorial huddles, and a single mother (an exceptional Samantha Ferris) refuses to fire the handyman who threatens both her daughters.

Filling the screen with dense pine forests and panicky strings, Mr. Laugier stirs apprehension, flirting with “Jeepers Creepers”-style horror and murder mystery psychodrama. But ultimately his story draws more energy from class than from criminality: awash in sludgy browns and rotting greens — the colors of poverty and decomposition — this unpredictable oddity is a little bonkers but a lot original.

“The Tall Man” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Twisted morals and straight-up scares.
871 2012-08-31 A commission in the Maldives concluded Thursday that the resignation of President Mohamed Nasheed in February was legal and that he had not been forced to step down at gunpoint as he claimed. Mr. Nasheed rejected the findings released by the commission of national inquiry, and his supporters resumed street protests on Thursday. Mr. Nasheed resigned after public protests and a loss of support from the military and the police. The commission was set up to investigate allegations that mutinying police officers and soldiers had forced him to resign.
872 2012-08-31 The wife of the dissident Wang Xiaoning said Friday that he had been released after serving 10 years in prison on a state subversion conviction that was supported by evidence from the Web portal Yahoo. Mr. Wang’s wife, Yu Ling, said that her husband had been released from the Beijing No. 2 Prison. American lawmakers and human rights advocates condemned Yahoo for cooperating with Chinese authorities in prosecuting Mr. Wang and another journalist. The company later apologized and settled a lawsuit with the families involved.
873 2012-08-31 Jarrod Parker pitched into the sixth inning and Oakland hit four home runs Thursday, leading the Athletics to their sixth straight win, a 12-7 victory over the free-falling Indians in Cleveland.

Oakland, which has won eight of nine, maintained a one-game lead over Baltimore for the top spot in the American League wild-card race. George Kottaras’s three-run double broke a 1-1 tie in the fourth. Coco Crisp, Cliff Pennington, Josh Reddick and Josh Donaldson homered.

The Indians have lost five straight and 14 of 15, and they are 5-27 since July 27.

Parker (9-7) gave up a home run to Jason Kipnis to start the game, but Cleveland starter Justin Masterson (10-12) allowed eight runs in four-plus innings.

BLUE JAYS 2, RAYS 0 Carlos Villanueva (7-4) pitched six sharp innings and Kelly Johnson hit a two-run double as host Toronto sent Tampa Bay to its fifth loss in six games.

ORIOLES 5, WHITE SOX 3 Zach Britton (4-1) struck out a career-high 10 in eight innings, and Taylor Teagarden and Adam Jones homered as host Baltimore won for the eighth time in 11 games.
874 2012-08-31 Marcus Lattimore ran for two touchdowns and 110 yards, and Connor Shaw ran for 92 yards while playing the second half with an injured shoulder as No. 9 South Carolina rallied for a 17-13 victory against Vanderbilt to open the season Thursday night.

¶ Chandler Whitmer threw for 219 yards and Connecticut scored touchdowns on offense, defense and special teams to beat Massachusetts, 37-0, spoiling the Minutemen’s debut as a bowl subdivision program.
875 2012-08-31 The book, which was translated into several languages, hurtled Ms. Firestone into the front ranks of second-wave feminists, alongside women like Betty Friedan, Kate Millett and Germaine Greer. It remains widely taught in college women’s-studies courses.

A painter by training, Ms. Firestone never anticipated a high-profile career as a writer; she had come to writing through preparing manifestoes for several feminist organizations she had helped found.

The crush of attention, positive and negative, that her book engendered soon proved unbearable, her sister said. In the years that followed, Ms. Firestone retreated into a quiet, largely solitary life of painting and writing, though she published little.

Her only other book, “Airless Spaces,” was issued in 1998 by the experimental publisher Semiotext(e). A memoir-in-stories that employs fictional forms to recount real-life events, it describes Ms. Firestone’s hospitalization with schizophrenia, which by the 1980s had overtaken her.

The second of six children of Orthodox Jewish parents, Shulamith Bath Shmuel Ben Ari Feuerstein was born in Ottawa on Jan. 7, 1945, and reared in Kansas City, Mo., and St. Louis.

The family Americanized its surname to Firestone when Shulamith was a child; Ms. Firestone pronounced her first name shoo-LAH-mith but was familiarly known as Shuley or Shulie.

After attending Washington University in St. Louis, Ms. Firestone earned a bachelor of fine arts degree from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1967. Around that time she helped found the Westside Group, a Chicago feminist organization, before moving to New York.

There, she was a founder of three feminist organizations — New York Radical Women, the Redstockings and New York Radical Feminists — begun as alternatives to mainstream groups like the National Organization for Women.

Ms. Firestone came to renewed attention in 1997 with the release of “Shulie,” an independent film by Elisabeth Subrin. Ms. Subrin’s 37-minute film is a shot-for-shot remake of an earlier, little-seen documentary, also titled “Shulie,” made in 1967 by four male graduate students at Northwestern University.

The 1967 film, part of a documentary series on the younger generation, profiles Ms. Firestone, then an unknown art student, as she paints, talks about her life as a young woman and undergoes a grueling review of her work by a panel of male professors.

In the 1997 remake, conceived as a backward look at a social landscape that seemed to have changed strikingly little in 30 years, Ms. Firestone is portrayed by an actress, Kim Soss. Her dialogue is uttered verbatim from the original documentary.

Ms. Subrin’s film, which was shown at the New York Film Festival, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Biennial and elsewhere, was well received by critics. But it distressed Ms. Firestone, who said she was upset that she had not been consulted in the course of its creation, her sister said this week.

In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Subrin said that she had sent Ms. Firestone a rough cut of her film through an intermediary. The intermediary later told her, she said, that Ms. Firestone “could appreciate it as a labor of love, but she hated the original film and didn’t see how my film was different.”

Besides her sister Laya, Ms. Firestone is survived by her mother, Kate Firestone Shiftan; two brothers, Ezra and Nechemia; and another sister, Miriam Tirzah Firestone.

In “Airless Spaces,” Ms. Firestone writes of life after hospitalization, on psychiatric medication. The account is in the third person, but the story is her own:

“She had been reading Dante’s ‘Inferno’ when first she went into the hospital, she remembered, and at quite a good clip too, but when she came out she couldn’t even get down a fashion rag. ... That left getting through the blank days as comfortably as possible, trying not to sink under the boredom and total loss of hope.”

The story continues: “She was lucid, yes, at what price. She sometimes recognized on the faces of others joy and ambition and other emotions she could recall having had once, long ago. But her life was ruined, and she had no salvage plan.”
876 2012-08-31 In a discussion of the case attached to his decision, Justice York wondered whether the city’s failure to study the negative impacts of the 60-40 establishments suggested that “what the city is really regulating is the content of expression, clearly a violation of the plaintiff’s rights to freedom of speech.”

The decision will have no immediate practical effect, because the 2001 law that it overturned was not enforced while lawsuits challenging its constitutionality winded through the courts.

The 1995 zoning law change, which was upheld by the courts, succeeded in scattering sexually oriented businesses to industrial areas across the city, breaking up clusters of X-rated businesses and strip clubs in Times Square and elsewhere, and opening the door to remaking those neighborhoods.

Justice York’s decision included nine pages of descriptions on how some of the mixed-material establishments segregated their sexually oriented material and included nonsexual material of legitimate interest to consumers. For example, an area in Ten’s Cabaret in Manhattan that is separate from the establishment’s topless dancers has held events featuring the pop singers Mariah Carey and Janet Jackson, he wrote.

Martin P. Mehler, a lawyer who represented several topless clubs in the case, said the city’s defense of the 2001 law failed because the original 60-40 rule had worked.

“We have adhered to what the law was,” Mr. Mehler said. “It has accomplished its goal of doing away with that tawdry atmosphere that used to exist in Times Square, and there was no need to take away a basic First Amendment right.”

Lawsuits challenging the 2001 law have taken many turns over the last decade. Justice York twice before, in 2009 and 2010, found the law to be constitutional. But he was directed by appellate courts to reconsider both rulings.

The litigation may not be over. City lawyers said on Thursday that they would appeal.

“We believe the court was right the first time when it ruled that 60-40 establishments have a predominant sexual focus,” Robin Binder of the city’s Law Department said. “The city’s ability to regulate adult establishments is critical to preserving neighborhood quality of life.”

But Herald Price Fahringer, who represented more than 100 video stores in the case, said the suit was not about protecting neighborhoods as much as about free speech and letting the marketplace, rather than government, decide which businesses survive.

“It’s wrong for a city or a state to say, ‘We’re banning this type of literature, and we’re not going to allow you to read or see it,’ ” he said. “That’s just un-American.”
877 2012-08-31 The market for such technologies has grown to $5 billion a year from “nothing 10 years ago,” said Jerry Lucas, president of TeleStrategies, the company behind ISS World, an annual surveillance show where law enforcement agents view the latest computer spyware.

FinSpy is made by the Gamma Group, a British company that says it sells monitoring software to governments solely for criminal investigations.

“This is dual-use equipment,” said Eva Galperin, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an Internet civil liberties group. “If you sell it to a country that obeys the rule of law, they may use it for law enforcement. If you sell it to a country where the rule of law is not so strong, it will be used to monitor journalists and dissidents.”

Until Mr. Marquis-Boire and Mr. Marczak stumbled upon FinSpy last May, security researchers had tried, unsuccessfully, for a year to track it down. FinSpy gained notoriety in March 2011 after protesters raided Egypt’s state security headquarters and discovered a document that appeared to be a proposal by the Gamma Group to sell FinSpy to the government of President Hosni Mubarak for $353,000. It is unclear whether that transaction was ever completed.

Martin J. Muench, a Gamma Group managing director, said his company did not disclose its customers. In an e-mail, he said the Gamma Group sold FinSpy to governments only to monitor criminals and that it was most frequently used “against pedophiles, terrorists, organized crime, kidnapping and human trafficking.”

In May, Mr. Marquis-Boire, 32, of San Francisco, and Mr. Marczak, 24, of Berkeley, Calif., volunteered to analyze some suspicious e-mails sent to three Bahraini activists. They discovered all the e-mails contained spyware that reported back to the same command-and-control server in Bahrain. The apparent use of the spyware to monitor Bahraini activists, none of whom had any criminal history, suggested that it had been used more broadly.

Bahrain has been increasingly criticized for human rights abuses. This month, a 16-year-old Bahraini protester was killed in what activists said was a brutal attack by security forces, but which Bahrain’s government framed as self-defense.

The findings of the two men came as no surprise to those in the field. “There has been a clear increase in the availability of penetrating cyberattack tools,” said Sameer Bhalotra, President Obama’s former senior director for cybersecurity who now serves as the chief operating officer of Impermium, a computer security firm. “These were once the realm of the black market and intelligence agencies. Now they are emerging more and more. The problem is that it only requires small changes to apply a surveillance tool for attack, and in this case it looks like dissidents were targeted.”

Since publishing their findings, Mr. Marquis-Boire and Mr. Marczak have started receiving malware samples from other security researchers and from activist groups that suspected they may have been targets. In several cases, the two found that the samples reported back to Web sites run by the Gamma Group. But other samples appeared to be actively snooping for foreign governments.

A second set of researchers from Rapid7, of Boston, scoured the Internet for links to the software and discovered it running in 10 more countries. Indeed, the spyware was running off EC2, an Amazon.com cloud storage service. Amazon did not return requests for clarification, but Mr. Marczak and Mr. Marquis-Boire said the server appeared to be a proxy, a way to conceal traffic.

Mr. Marquis-Boire said a Turkmenistan server running the software belonged to a range of I.P. addresses specifically assigned to the ministry of communications. It is the first clear-cut case of a government running the spyware off its own computer system. Human Rights Watch recently called Turkmenistan one of the “world’s most repressive countries” and warned that dissidents faced “constant threat of government reprisal.”

Ms. Galperin of the Electronic Frontier Foundation said, “Nobody in their right mind would claim it is O.K. to sell surveillance to Turkmenistan.”

The Gamma Group would not confirm it sold software to Turkmenistan. A military attaché at the Turkmenistan Embassy in Washington refused to comment.

Mr. Muench, who for the last month has repeatedly denied that the researchers had pinpointed the company’s spyware, sharply reversed course Wednesday.

In a statement released less than an hour after the researchers published their latest findings, Mr. Muench said that a Gamma Group server had been broken into and that several demonstration copies of FinSpy had been stolen.

By Thursday afternoon, several of the FinSpy servers began to disappear, Mr. Marczak said. Servers in Singapore, Indonesia, Mongolia and Brunei went dark, while one in Bahrain briefly shut down before reincarnating elsewhere. Mr. Marquis-Boire said that as he traced spyware from Bahrain to 14 other countries — many of them “places with tight centralized control” — he grew increasingly worried about the people on the other end.

Four months in, he sounds like a man who wants to take a break, but knows he cannot just yet: “I can’t wait for the day when I can sleep in and watch movies and go to the pub instead of analyzing malware and pondering the state of the global cybersurveillance industry.”
878 2012-08-31 Of Brazil’s 81 senators, only one voted against the law this month. Other spheres of government here have also supported affirmative action measures. In a closely watched decision in April, the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the racial quotas enacted in 2004 by the University of Brasília, which reserved 20 percent of its spots for black and mixed-race students.

Dozens of other Brazilian universities, both public and private, have also adopted their own affirmative action policies in recent years, trying to curb the dominance of such institutions by middle- and upper-middle-class students who were educated at private elementary and secondary schools. Public universities in Brazil are largely free of charge and generally of better quality, with some exceptions, than private universities.

Still, some education experts are already predicting a shift to the better private universities among some students. “With these quotas, these rich Brazilians who took up their spots will not be abandoned,” argued Frei David Santos, 60, a Franciscan friar in São Paulo who directs Educafro, an organization preparing black and low-income students for university entrance exams. “Their parents who had money saved will spend it” on elite private universities.

The Law of Social Quotas takes the previous affirmative action policies to another level, giving Brazil’s 59 federal universities just four years to ensure that half of the entering class comes from public schools. Luiza Bairros, the minister in charge of Brazil’s Secretariat for Policies to Promote Racial Equality, said officials expected the number of black students admitted to these universities to climb to 56,000 from 8,700.

The law obligates public universities to assign their spots in accordance with the racial makeup of each of Brazil’s 26 states and the capital, Brasília. In states with large black or mixed-race populations, like Bahia in the northeast, that could lead to a surge in black university students, while states in southern Brazil, which are largely white, could still have relatively few black students in public universities.

The new law recognizes that Brazil has remained far from the ideal of “racial democracy” espoused by the influential sociologist Gilberto Freyre, who argued that Brazil escaped much of the prejudice and discrimination he witnessed while studying in the segregation-era United States.

Brazil’s former president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, said in an interview that he was “completely in favor” of the quotas. “Try finding a black doctor, a black dentist, a black bank manager, and you will encounter great difficulty,” Mr. da Silva said. “It’s important, at least for a span of time, to guarantee that the blacks in Brazilian society can make up for lost time.”

Brazil’s 2010 census showed that a slight majority of this nation’s 196 million people defined themselves as black or mixed-race, a shift from previous decades during which most Brazilians called themselves white.

Still, some prominent Brazilians have expressed concern about the scope of the quotas. “It’s important to compensate people, but the way to do that cannot be a copy of what has been done in one moment in the U.S.,” Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Mr. da Silva’s predecessor as president, said in an interview. “I think it’s better to leave more freedom for universities to show how to adjust.”

Despite such reservations, Brazilian officials say the law signifies an important shift in Brazil’s view on offering opportunities to big swaths of the population.

“Brazil is experiencing an extremely positive moment,” said Ms. Bairros, the minister promoting racial equality. “Next, we will seek to extend this concept to other areas, like culture and jobs.”
879 2012-08-31 Conventiongoers mill about, trying to get inside. But they are generally turned away, their only option the CNN Web site, which keeps a running tally of A-list guests (Senator Kelly Ayotte! Herman Cain! Rudolph W. Giuliani!)

“The only place,” it boasts, “to host the Romney family, the Gingrich family AND the Santorum family, all in one day.

All of Mitt Romney’s siblings are in town for his Big Night at the Republican convention: Jane, Scott and Margo.

So is Tito, his Italian brother.

He could not imagine missing it. “I feel I am part of the family,” he said in an interview at the Romney family’s hotel in Tampa, Fla.

Fifty-three years ago, Attilio G. Cortella, above, showed up at the front door of the Romneys’ home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., a 17-year-old foreign exchange student from Turin with a big suitcase and a slim grasp of English.

“It was such a big house,” recalled Mr. Cortella, whose family lived in a modest apartment in Turin. “We could have made 10 houses out of it.”

George and Lenore Romney, Father and Mother Romney, as Mr. Cortella called them, quickly integrated him into the rhythms of the family: nightly dish duty, yard work and Sunday church. (George Romney, a Mormon, insisted that Mr. Cortella be driven to the local Catholic church every week for Mass.)

Mitt Romney, then 11, became an eager sidekick, patiently translating rapid-fire English on the television and providing lessons on American lingo.

Mr. Cortella, now 70, remembered bonding with young Mitt during a drive from Michigan to Utah for Jane Romney’s wedding. “He was always ready to joke,” he said.

Did Mr. Cortella see presidential material back then? “No, I did not,” he concedes.

But he stayed connected with Mr. Romney through the years, meeting him in Italy for the 2006 Olympic Games and exchanging periodic e-mails.

When it became clear that Mr. Romney would be the Republican nominee, Mr. Cortella knew he wanted to attend the convention. He arrived on Monday and has stayed at a Marriott hotel with the rest of the Romneys, posing for group photos and sitting through long, laugh-filled reunion dinners.

The Innisbrook Resort is newly renovated, with a golf course and spa.

But members of the Florida delegation know it best as “Primary Purgatory,” a daily reminder that they violated Republican Party rules and are now being punished.

Florida, along with Arizona, Michigan, New Hampshire, and South Carolina, moved up their primaries this cycle, bucking the wishes of their party. Florida was the first to do so, setting off a chain reaction of states vying for standing in the early nominating contests. Along with South Carolina, it seems to be facing the harshest reprimands.

Among their punishments: a less-than-ideal hotel, located so far from the convention center that every day begins and ends with an hourlong bus ride to downtown Tampa. On Tuesday, convention coordinators forgot to send buses to pick up the Florida delegates, leaving them briefly stranded 31 miles from the action.

South Carolina found itself similarly marooned at the Innisbrook, but both delegations say they have found ways to bond in exile. “We had a great time with Florida,” said LaDonna Ryggs, a South Carolina delegate.

They organized a breakfast with their governors, and have welcomed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and several of Mr. Romney’s sons.

“If we’re too far out, they’ve certainly been willing to come see us,” Ms. Ryggs said, brightly.

Not every state has fared poorly. Michigan scored rooms at the Embassy Suites downtown. Thomas Stroup, a delegate from the state, had a theory about why Michigan’s penalty seemed less harsh than four years ago, when a similar rules violation landed the delegation at “a bad hotel, 20 miles away.”

“Michigan is a swing state, and the Romney/Ryan ticket has a chance to win,” he said.

And New Hampshire found itself at what Tom Rath, a delegate from the state and a Romney adviser, described as a “not bad” hotel near the airport.

Their stay has not been hassle-free — an eight- mile bus ride took them three hours one night — but they, too, are savoring small victories.

“They have free M&Ms,” Mr. Rath said. “They were very, very important the other night when we got home late and everybody was starving, so we really hit the M&Ms hard.”
880 2012-08-31 Most of the nation’s retailers posted better-than-expected sales gains in August as parents and students wrapped up back-to-school purchases, setting the stage for a strong third quarter.

August sales at stores open for more than a year rose 3.6 percent at retailers tracked by Thomson Reuters, topping forecasts for a 2 percent rise. The statistics were reported on Thursday.

“Back-to-school generates so much sales in the first month of the retailers’ third quarter, it has to have a big impact,” said Mark Larson, head of retail at the accounting firm KPMG.

Back-to-school is the second-strongest selling season for retailers after the winter holidays. However, a strong seasonal showing does not guarantee a strong holiday season, Mr. Larson said.

“There is still too much uncertainty around consumer spending to make a declaration that the holiday season would be good,” he said, adding that factors like unemployment, droughts and higher gas prices can put a crimp on consumer spending.
881 2012-08-31 LONDON — Police officials investigating phone hacking by journalists at Rupert Murdoch’s British newspapers arrested a man on Thursday who was identified in news reports as Tom Crone, a former senior lawyer for the newspapers.

Scotland Yard said in a statement that officers in London were questioning a 60-year-old man “on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications.” The police did not release the man’s name, but he was widely identified by British news outlets.

The arrest brings the scandal over allegations of illegal interceptions of voice mail messages and other improprieties at the newspapers — especially The News of the World, the tabloid that Mr. Murdoch shut down last year — closer to Mr. Murdoch’s son James. He headed the British newspaper business until recently, and has been locked in a public dispute with Mr. Crone and with Colin Myler, the former editor of The News of the World.

In testimony before public inquiries and in statements to reporters, the two men have insisted that in the summer of 2008, when they were facing a lawsuit claiming that phone hacking was widespread at the paper, they informed James Murdoch at a meeting and in an e-mail that criminality in the newsroom was not limited to one or two rogue employees.

Mr. Murdoch has said that he did not read the e-mail, and he disputes the men’s account of their meeting. He has said that he agreed to settle the lawsuit by authorizing a large payment to the plaintiffs only because it made financial sense to do so, not as part of a cover-up. When a wave of additional phone hacking allegations emerged last year and stoked public outrage, Rupert Murdoch shut down The News of the World.

A spokeswoman for News International, the British newspaper arm of the Murdoch empire, said Thursday that it had no comment on the arrest.
882 2012-08-31 “Probably the first time in my career that I can sit here and say I’m not sure that I can put everything into it physically and emotionally,” he said. “I don’t know that I want to disrespect the game by coasting home.”

The United States Open seemed as fitting a place as any to call it quits. Roddick recalled Thursday the first time he came to New York because of tennis, in 1990, the result of a birthday gift from his parents. He sneaked into the players’ lounge without a credential. He said he thought he bested Pete Sampras, then 19 and about to win his first Grand Slam title, in video games.

Roddick returned to the Open in 1991 and watched the fiery Jimmy Connors’s memorable run at age 39. Eight years later, Roddick played in New York for the first time, in doubles.

Over the years, Roddick became part of the fabric of the Open, a regular at the night sessions, a fan favorite. He won the tournament in 2003 and took the silver trophy home to Austin, Tex., where he plans to open an academy next year through his foundation. The trophy sits in his study.

Roddick said he did not see the trophy often “because we all know I don’t go there very much.”

Known for his powerful serve and combustible nature, Roddick captured 32 ATP World Titles, won four doubles crowns and obtained the No. 1 ranking in November 2003 at 21 years old.

Yet he came of age in the era of Roger Federer, who turned 31 this month. Then came Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic, and the three have let few major tournament titles slip through their grasps. Federer alone toppled Roddick in four Grand Slam finals, including an epic contest at Wimbledon in 2009 that Federer won, 16-14, in the fifth set.

Roddick also proved a Davis Cup mainstay and a leader among his American teammates. His 33 wins rank second for the United States, which he led to the Davis Cup championship in 2007. Along the way, Roddick married the model and actress Brooklyn Decker.

Life over all was good, regardless of era or legacy or the constant questions about the state of American men’s tennis.

Roddick did not cry at the news conference announcing his retirement, even though he admitted he expected to. Instead, he did what Roddick does best in those settings. He made jokes.

On what Roddick would miss most, he cracked to reporters, “All of you.” He said his dog would be excited because “I won’t be a deadbeat dad anymore.”

“He’s been my biggest role model the last 10 years playing tennis, watching tennis,” said Sam Querrey, the 24-year-old American. “He’s been a great guy, a great leader to us all.”

Federer, in an ESPN interview, said Roddick seemed “at peace.”

Ten years ago, Sampras won the Open at age 31, in the final match of his career.

“We’ll see,” Roddick said when asked about the prospect of a dream run. “I wish it was a choice.”
883 2012-08-31 I realized in early spring that it was going to be a critter-heavy warm-weather season in my New Jersey yard because rabbits, chipmunks and squirrels were already lined up at my gardens with cutlery and napkins. So I resolved to test DogTV on whatever wildlife I could in the ensuing months and to augment those studies with tests friends and family members conducted on their domestic animals at my request. (I have no pets myself, ensuring objectivity.)

First I had to establish what we researchers call a control group, by seeing how DogTV was received by actual dogs.

I should note that I did not subscribe to DogTV to conduct these experiments. The Internet stream costs $9.99 a month, and our office manager is rather humorless when it comes to approving expense reports. I used only the sample videos on the DogTV site, which come in three variations: “Relaxation,” “Stimulation” and “Exposure.” This would no doubt meet with disapproval from the DogTV staff, which counsels owners to “give your dog some time to adjust.” Too bad; science waits for no dog.

My control-group dogs had mixed reactions to DogTV that bordered on randomness:

¶Mitzy, a Border collie mix in Westerly, R.I., was certainly stimulated by the “Stimulation” video: she was stimulated to get up and leave the room.

¶Dakota, a Dalmatian in Westford, Vt., “quickly realized the dogs in the video were not going to try to take her spot and went right back to sleep,” her owner reported. Her companion, Otto, a German shorthaired pointer, “watched for about a minute and a half, then tried to lick the iPad.”

¶Maxie, a bichon frisé in Hawley, Pa., who is said to prefer Yo-Yo Ma delivered by radio to any sort of television, looked everywhere but the screen for most of all three videos, the exception being a brief glance when a dog owner in “Exposure” aimed the command “Sit” at her dog after a doorbell rang.

¶Walter, an Airedale in New York, ignored the screen for the first two videos and walked out on the third. His housemate, Fadilah, a Lakeland terrier, was also uninterested except during that controversial doorbell scene. “Her head did the telltale sign of paying attention (slightly cocked to the right) as the dog sat for his/her owner’s ‘sit,’ ” Fadilah’s owner reported, adding, “Then the image shifted to the people walking across the street, and she was done.”

So much for the dog verdict on DogTV. The first out-of-species test subject was an 18-inch garter snake I apprehended in May. About one snake a year makes the mistake of coming into my yard, in which I enforce a strict no-snakes policy, and I have become quite adept at nabbing them.

I decided to show this one “Relaxation,” since it seemed annoyed, possibly because I had imprisoned it in a Tupperware container for transport to someone else’s yard. Surprisingly, the video noticeably calmed down the snake. “Stimulation” and “Exposure,” however, seemed to have no effect at all, even though “Stimulation” includes images of an animated mouse, a favorite food of snakes.

As the summer wore on I tested DogTV on various critters that convened to eat my flowers and vegetables. These animals’ fearlessness — sometimes they came into a garden while I was weeding it — enabled me to play DogTV for them occasionally on one of my two laptops, which I would set in the grass.

In general, rabbits preferred the higher resolution of the MacBook, whereas squirrels favored the larger screen of the Toshiba. Chipmunks were too hyperactive to linger around either device, even though I sprinkled the keyboards liberally with birdseed, which chipmunks seem to enjoy far more than birds do. I do not recommend this practice, as the alt and ctrl keys on the Toshiba now sometimes stick.

The rabbits and squirrels occasionally glanced at the DogTV videos but soon resumed pursuit of their apparent goal of eating the entire world. A more definitive opinion was rendered by Molly, my daughter’s cat, a sedentary beast roughly the size of a Volkswagen Beetle.

She began her viewing session exhibiting unmistakable indifference but soon graduated to outright animosity. It wasn’t that she was afraid of the dogs on DogTV, my daughter reported; it was that she was annoyed at being asked to do anything outside of her normal routine, which is to do nothing. By the time “Exposure” played, Molly chose to curtail her own exposure by diving under the bed, where she remained for four hours.

The last test subject of the summer was a turtle I rescued on Monday as it sat in the middle of Clarksville Road in West Windsor, N.J., trying to get from the bog on one side to the pond on the other. There’s a turtle-crossing sign at the site, but it doesn’t have much effect; the turtle I plucked from certain death was surrounded by the squished bodies of a half-dozen cousins.

At first none of the three DogTV videos coaxed the turtle out of its shell, but after a while its curiosity was piqued. It seemed to enjoy the studied languidness of “Relaxation” and be intrigued by parts of “Exposure.” But a graphic scene in “Stimulation,” in which a dog jumps into a pool and chews up a turtle-size water toy, seemed too much for the turtle. It bolted — yes, bolted — off the computer table.

I caught it before it plummeted to the floor, the second time in hours that I had saved its life. Then I took it back to the pond and, after a brief primer on pedestrian safety, set it free. Other turtles in that pond probably have street-crossing stories to tell, but this one has them beat by miles.

Anyway, it is clear from this summer-long study that DogTV produces exactly the same haphazard, unpredictable responses in nondogs that it does in dogs. Could it be that the distinctions we make between species are artificial, that there are not many types of creatures on the planet, but essentially only one: the one that either stares at a TV screen or doesn’t, depending on factors that remain unclear? Aren’t we all, humans included, looking for relaxation or stimulation or exposure, unless we’re not?

I hope to study these and other profound questions further. If I can ever wrestle my laptops away from those rabbits.
884 2012-08-31 Johnson & Johnson announced Thursday that its pharmaceutical unit had reached a $181 million consumer fraud settlement with 36 states and the District of Columbia over its marketing of Risperdal, an antipsychotic drug.

The company’s pharmaceuticals subsidiary, Janssen, has been under scrutiny for years over its promotion of Risperdal, which treats symptoms of bipolar mania and schizophrenia. State and federal authorities have said that Janssen promoted the drug for uses it did not have approval for, including dementia in elderly patients, bipolar disorder in children and adolescents, depression and anxiety. Prosecutors have also accused the company of minimizing or concealing the risks associated with the drug.

In resolving the allegations by the states, Janssen did not admit wrongdoing or that it violated the law and said it settled to avoid “unnecessary expense and a prolonged legal process.”

“We have chosen this path to achieve a prompt and full resolution of these state claims and to ensure we continue to focus on our mission of providing medicines to meet the significant unmet needs of many people who suffer from mental illness,” Michael Yang, president of Janssen, said in a statement Thursday.

The company’s decision to settle the cases with the states follows several other large state settlements and court decisions involving Risperdal. In April, a judge in Arkansas ordered it to pay more than $1.2 billion in fines. Last year, a South Carolina judge levied civil penalties of $327 million. Janssen is appealing the fines in both states. Two cases against Janssen in Pennsylvania and West Virginia were eventually dismissed.

New York’s attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, applauded the settlement in a statement Thursday. New York will receive nearly $9 million as part of the agreement. “This landmark settlement holds the companies accountable for practices that put patients in danger, and serves as a warning to other pharmaceutical giants that they must play by one set of rules,” Mr. Schneiderman said. Other states involved in the settlement include Florida, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Arizona and Texas. California and Kentucky, which were part of the negotiations, did not take part in the final agreement, said Terri Mueller, a spokeswoman for Janssen.
885 2012-08-31 This refrain is often heard in and around the convention. In dozens of interviews, women at the convention made clear that social issues are taking a back seat. Even those who passionately agree (or disagree) with the new party platform — calling for traditional marriage, public display of the Ten Commandments and a sweeping ban on abortion — were unwilling to discuss it. (An exception was Mitt Romney’s sister Jane, who declared that a ban on abortion is “never going to happen” in a Romney administration.)

Instead, women at the convention preferred to point to opening night on Tuesday, when a parade of Republican women took to the podium, including Ann Romney, who spoke about her family, and Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who preached a gospel of economic empowerment, free of meddlesome government rules.

Being visible was one way, the women said, to counter the Obama campaign’s charge that their party is waging a war on women.

“They’re doing the soft love approach,” said Sandra Stroman, a convention participant from Chester, S.C. “They’re holding up our women in this party and putting those women in front of the cameras, saying, ‘Here are our Republican women. Do they look like we have waged war against them?’ ”

With the intention of appealing to voters beyond the party’s base, many Republican women are simply avoiding the mention of abortion or gay rights because they are seen as too divisive in such a close, contentious race. Some acknowledge deliberately playing down their own views as a strategic move. Instead, they want to talk about the economy, just like the Romney campaign.

“Anything that gives women the idea that they can’t find friends in the Republican Party is unhelpful,” said Kristen Soltis, a pollster and an adviser to Crossroads Generation, a pro-Romney super PAC. “I think what will be decisive in this election are those sort of kitchen-table economics: How am going to pay my bills? How am I going to make sure my kids get a good education? How am I going to make sure my parents are healthy?”

Ms. Soltis, 28, is personally in favor of same-sex marriage but is opposed to abortion. She says she tends not to focus the party platform, and hopes that one day it might shift to the center again, at least on social issues.

“I think particularly as more young people come to the party, that may lead to the party having different positions on things as the years go on,” she said, adding that in the meantime, “I consider myself focused on fiscal issues.”

Mia Love, a mayor in Utah who is running for Congress, usually highlights her Mormon-inspired conservatism, but she, too, shied away from social issues in her speech at the convention on Tuesday, speaking instead about the lives of her parents, who were immigrants from Haiti. “I haven’t focused on those social issues because the economic issues are important to my district,” she said in an interview. “Fiscal discipline, our debt and deficit. We need to focus on work.”

Ms. Love’s friend Deidre Henderson, a candidate for the Utah State Senate who agrees with the party platform, described herself as “very pro-life” but added that social issues are “a distraction. What we need to focus on is the economy.”

The distancing from social issues is all the more urgent, some conservative women acknowledged, in the aftermath of highly polarizing comments Representative Todd Akin of Missouri made two weeks ago, claiming that in cases of “legitimate rape” one need not consider abortion because the female reproductive system shuts itself down.

“Of course it was unhelpful,” said Ms. Soltis saying that Democrats have seized the issue to support their contention that Republicans are hostile to women. “I think that because unemployment is so high, Democrats think it’s much easier to win over women voters if they talk about these social issues. I think that’s a risky gamble for them, because I so firmly believe that this will be an election about the economy.”

And on that subject, Republican women are intent on returning the incoming fire from the Democrats. Rae Lynne Chornenky, the president of the National Federation of Republican Women, addressed the convention on Monday, repeated the oft-discredited claim that 92 percent of all the jobs lost under Mr. Obama were those of women.

“If there is a war against women,” she said, “it is President Obama who waged it.”
886 2012-08-31 As for the locally operated levee on the west bank of Plaquemines Parish, “it appears that the levee has held,” the governor said, adding that “the worst fears did not come true.”

At the east bank community of Braithwaite, floodwaters stood at eight feet in some areas, trapped within the local levees. The water level had dropped from a height of 14 feet, the estimated. The state drained off several feet, allowing some water to flow back into the through the Caernarvon diversion, a coastal restoration structure that normally sends fresh water and sediment from the Mississippi into the coastal bays and marshes of the Breton Sound.

On Thursday afternoon, work crews cut a notch in the parish-built levee to allow the water to flow out. “We anticipate we will be able to drain up to 70 percent of the water from the inundated area within a 24-hour period,” said Olivia Watkins, a spokeswoman for the state’s coastal protection and restoration authority.

The rest of the water, she said, will be removed with diesel pumps that had been trucked in.

In Mississippi, state workers tried to take water pressure off a rain-weakened Percy Quin dam at Lake Tangipahoa. A collapse of the dam could have caused a surge of water into the Tangipahoa River, which has flooded badly in years past and was already running high on Thursday because of the storm’s rainfall.

Tangipahoa Parish stretches down from the Mississippi state line to Lake Pontchartrain, and other than the city of Hammond consists largely of small towns and pastureland. Most of these towns lie just west of the Tangipahoa River. The parish has grown quickly in the years since , as southern Louisianans moved north, but those who have been around a while are used to flooding.

“Folks that live here know better than anyone else, they know where the water went in 1983, they know where the water went in 1990,” Governor Jindal said in a briefing at the Tangipahoa emergency operations center in Amite City, La.

The controlled release of water was intended to take pressure off the dam, but was not expected to substantially raise the level of the river. The release will affect “about 20 homes,” said Christina Stephens, a spokeswoman for Governor Jindal’s emergency office, but will reduce the threat to the larger population along the river.

The collapse of the dam could have been devastating, and Louisiana officials ordered an evacuation of tens of thousands of people who live within half a mile of the river. Were the dam to burst, all of the village of Tangipahoa (population 1,200) would be underwater, said Michael Jackson, the mayor. He estimated that 85 percent of the residents had left for shelters in Kentwood or to stay with relatives. The village had flooded this time last year, just because of a bad rainstorm, so people knew their risks.

To many of those packing up, this was just an unfortunate but inevitable part of living in a floodplain.“You see, this is swamp,” said T. J. Ockman, 65, who lives not far from the river. His sits on stilts up on a hill and he does not think it should flood. Still, he was making trips back and forth between his trailer and his pickup truck, clomping up the stairs in his white shrimp boots, packing up his three dogs and a generator. “I’m no fool,” he said. “I was raised around the bayou. I’ve been through a few storms. I know from water.”

In Slidell, La., a city of about 30,000 people on the northeast shore of Lake Pontchartrain, floodwaters from creeks flowing into the area’s bayous inundated Olde Towne, a residential area and tourist destination, and Mayor Freddy Drennan encouraged residents in several neighborhoods to evacuate.

Louisiana’s lieutenant governor, Jay Dardenne, said that workers in state parks in St. Tammany Parish told him “there is more water than we saw in Katrina.”

At a junior high school in Slidell that served as a shelter for the parish, the volunteer in charge, , had to go back to his own home to rescue his wife, Jeanie. “I got a text yesterday from her, she was scared. We’d gone through Katrina.” He went to pick her up, his truck pushing through the rising water. Now she was one of the 160 or so evacuees to join him at the shelter. They still did not know what happened to the house.

At the Baton Rouge news conference, Mr. Jindal said that the success of the New Orleans hurricane defenses would send a message. “If the proper flood protection systems are built, we can protect our people and our communities,” he said.

The investment around New Orleans pays off for all Americans, he said: “Protecting the Louisiana coast is good for Louisiana — it’s also good for this country” because of the importance of the seafood that comes from commercial and the energy and . “It’s a good investment for the country to be making,” he said. “It’s investing in the goose that’s laying the golden eggs.”
887 2012-08-31 SYDNEY, Australia — Ninety or more people remained missing Thursday after a boat carrying about 150 migrants sank off Indonesia, in another disaster this year for asylum seekers from the Middle East and Asia trying to reach Australia by sea.

The Australian home affairs minister, Jason Clare, expressed grave concern for the passengers and said that a “massive” search-and-rescue effort was under way to locate survivors. At least seven commercial ships and one military vessel were combing the waters around 40 nautical miles south of the Indonesian island of Java, he said, where the boat issued the first of two distress calls early on Wednesday morning.

Thousands of asylum seekers try to reach the remote Australian territory of Christmas Island each year on rickety, overcrowded vessels, leading to accidents at sea that have killed more than 600 people since late 2009. Australia’s Parliament passed legislation this month to allow boat refugees to be deported to offshore detention centers in an effort to stem the record number of arrivals, but the policy has not yet had any significant impact.

Six survivors were pulled from the wreckage of the ship early on Thursday, and 39 more were rescued later in the day by navy and merchant vessels, Mr. Clare said. He had warned earlier that rescuers had a shrinking window to locate any additional survivors.

“Potentially dozens and dozens haven’t survived,” Mr. Clare said in Sydney.

The Associated Press reported that a total of 55 people had been rescued, and that the captain of a rescue vessel said he saw bodies in the water.