1 2011-11-01 The fall of MF Global, and the discovery that hundreds of millions of dollars were missing from the firm’s customer accounts, have cast a dark cloud over Jon S. Corzine’s legacy....
2 2011-11-01 The collapse of MF Global, and the discovery that hundreds of millions of dollars were missing from the firm's customer accounts, have cast a dark cloud over Jon S. Corzine's legacy and reputation....
3 2011-11-01 The Dining staff is taking your questions on Thanksgiving cooking, drinking, entertaining, or any other holiday hurdles....
4 2011-11-01 The Dining staff is taking your questions on Thanksgiving cooking, drinking, entertaining, or any other holiday hurdles....
5 2011-11-01 CFDA Fashion Incubator designers Bibhu Mohapatra and Rachel Dooley team up to make super-saturated prismatic jewelry....
6 2011-11-01 CFDA Fashion Incubator designers Bibhu Mohapatra and Rachel Dooley team up to make super-saturated prismatic jewelry....
7 2011-11-01 A new study also showed that the cancer risk was modest and must be weighed against heart benefits....
8 2011-11-01 A new study shows that women who routinely have even small amounts of alcohol, as few as three drinks a week, have an elevated risk of breast cancer, but the risk was modest and must be weighed against heart benefits....
9 2011-11-01 Pirenópolis, a cobblestoned colonial town about 85 miles from Brasília , is at its most charming and quiet during the week....
10 2011-11-01 Pirenópolis, a cobblestoned colonial town about 85 miles from Brasília , is at its most charming and quiet during the week....
11 2011-11-01 The Democratic senator from Missouri faces a tough re-election, and now feels ready to run....
12 2011-11-01 The Democratic senator from Missouri faces a tough re-election, and now feels ready to run....
13 2011-11-01 DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced provided live coverage of the MF Global hearing at a bankruptcy court hearing in Manhattan....
14 2011-11-01 The digital circulation growth shown in the latest figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations is helping to ease a relentless overall decline in recent years....
15 2011-11-01 The digital circulation growth shown in the latest figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations is helping to ease a relentless overall decline in recent years....
16 2011-11-01 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
17 2011-11-01 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
18 2011-11-01 The online radio service Pandora, which lets Web surfers create custom music "stations" by typing in a favorite artist, is coming to shopping malls, doctor's offices and restaurants....
19 2011-11-01 The online radio service Pandora, which lets Web surfers create custom music "stations" by typing in a favorite artist, is coming to shopping malls, doctor's offices and restaurants....
20 2011-11-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
21 2011-11-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
22 2011-11-01 Prayer for Relief, a 3-year-old son of Jump Start, developed a fever....
23 2011-11-01 Prayer for Relief, a 3-year-old son of Jump Start, developed a fever....
24 2011-11-01 Alan Gelb, author of "Conquering the College Admissions Essay in 10 Steps," delivers tips on how to keep a college essay within bounds....
25 2011-11-01 JPMorgan Chase has reorganized the management of its capital markets operations, naming separate global leadership teams to oversee both equity and debt capital markets, the firm announced in an internal memorandum....
26 2011-11-01 JPMorgan Chase has reorganized the management of its capital markets operations, naming separate global leadership teams to oversee both equity and debt capital markets, the firm announced in an internal memorandum....
27 2011-11-01 A federal judge has ruled that H&R Block's $287.5 million acquisition of 2SS Holdings, the maker of TaxACT software, would undermine competition....
28 2011-11-01 A federal judge has ruled that H&R Block's $287.5 million acquisition of 2SS Holdings, the maker of TaxACT software, would undermine competition....
29 2011-11-01 G4S, the world's largest provider of security services, has abandoned its bid of roughly $8.2 billion for ISS of Denmark after G4S shareholders balked at the takeover....
30 2011-11-01 G4S, the world's largest provider of security services, has abandoned its bid of roughly $8.2 billion for ISS of Denmark after G4S shareholders balked at the takeover....
31 2011-11-01 The second-largest Swiss bank said its third-quarter net profit rose to 683 million Swiss francs, and it announced 1,500 additional job reductions....
32 2011-11-01 The second-largest Swiss bank said its third-quarter net profit rose to 683 million Swiss francs, and it announced 1,500 additional job reductions....
33 2011-11-01 Many members of the unit are among the 28 witnesses scheduled to testify in the court-martial, which is expected to last into next week.

“At the end of the day, they’re all going to corroborate the core facts that are central to this prosecution,” Capt. Dan Mazzone, an Army prosecutor, told the five-person military jury, which consisted of three officers and two enlisted soldiers.

If he is convicted, Sergeant Gibbs faces a maximum penalty of life in prison without parole. Six other soldiers from the unit, part of the former Fifth Stryker Brigade, Second Infantry Division that was based here, have been convicted of lesser crimes, including widespread use of hashish and assaulting another soldier. The unit was stationed at Forward Operating Base Ramrod, near Kandahar, until June 2010.

Although the Army has restricted access to the photographs soldiers took, some were released publicly this year after they were obtained and published in the German news magazine Der Spiegel. Some were displayed in the courtroom on Monday.

“It was just more of a keepsake, a trophy photograph,” Specialist Jeremy Morlock said during lengthy testimony on Monday while looking at an image showing him smiling with one of the victims. Specialist Morlock pleaded guilty to three murder charges in March and is serving a 24-year sentence.

Sergeant Gibbs, originally from Billings, Mont., joined the unit in the late fall of 2009 after having served in Iraq. Specialist Morlock and others have said that Sergeant Gibbs, now 26, initiated talks about “scenarios” in which the unit could fake combat situations.

Asked by an Army lawyer why he had agreed to the scenarios so quickly, Specialist Morlock said that some members of his unit had been frustrated that they were often assigned to “meet and greets” to improve relationships with Afghan villagers. “The whole idea of the infantry mindset is to get into firefights and engage the enemy,” he said.

Mr. Stackhouse suggested that the evidence will show that Specialist Morlock in fact planned the crimes. He said the specialist and others were blaming his client to receive more lenient sentences.

He said that in two of the killings, Sergeant Gibbs was not at the scene and that in a third he fired in self-defense, a point Specialist Morlock disputed. Prosecutors argued that Sergeant Gibbs helped plan the killings and provided “drop weapons,” like grenades, to fake combat. Mr. Stackhouse did not dispute that his client kept fingers from corpses.
34 2011-11-01 TRIPOLI, Libya —Libya’s provisional leaders named an engineer as its new prime minister Monday, taking the first step toward assembling a new transitional government after the killing of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and the formal end to the uprising that ended his nearly 42 years in power.

Libya’s Transitional National Council said Monday that its members voted to name as prime minister Abdel Rahim el-Keeb, whom officials described as an electronics engineer and Qaddafi critic who spent most of his career abroad. For the purposes of Libyan politics, however, Mr. Keeb is considered a resident of the western city of Tripoli, the capital, offering regional balance to the interim president, Mustafa Abdel-Jalil, who is from the east.

Mr. Keeb did not play any conspicuous role in the revolt against Colonel Qaddafi, but leaders of the revolt from Tripoli, the Western mountains and the coastal city of Misurata cheered his selection. He succeeds Mahmoud Jibril, who announced his resignation after the capture of Tripoli. Anti-Qaddafi forces from Misurata had led a drive to oust Mr. Jibril, in part because he had worked for about five years as head of an economic development office under Mr. Qaddafi.

Mr. Keeb “starts with a clean slate,” said Mohamed Benrasali, a spokesman for the local council governing Misurata. “He will not be troubled by his past, unlike Mr. Jibril.”

Under a “constitutional declaration” issued by the Transitional National Council, Mr. Keeb is expected to form a cabinet that will run the government until the election of a national assembly in about eight months. He was named on the same day that NATO’s general secretary, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, visited Tripoli to mark the last day of the organization’s mission here, which formally ended Monday at midnight. “We acted to protect you,” Mr. Rasmussen said in speech at the Rixos Hotel, once the hub of Colonel Qaddafi’s propaganda machine. “Together we succeeded. Libya is finally free.”
35 2011-11-01 In Atlanta on Saturday, demonstrators who had been thrown out of Woodruff Park by the police moved into upper floors of the Peachtree-Pine homeless shelter in a full-scale embrace of the cause of the 600 residents who live below them. It gave the demonstration more of a political focus, and not incidentally expanded its size.

“The homeless bring numbers,” said Alex Smith Jr., 50, a former repairman who lives at the shelter and joined the protests. “They bring a voice.”

But in places like Nashville, New York, Los Angeles and Oakland, Calif., protesters talk about feeling unsafe because of the presence of homeless people.

“There are a lot of them here that have mental problems and that need help. They are in the wrong place,” said Jessica Anderson, 22, who is herself homeless, sitting with friends on a tarp at the Los Angeles site. “They have been creating more problems. There was one guy who showed up last night and he would not shut up: Saying all kinds of crazy stuff all night.”

In Nashville, organizers described the homeless as more of a detriment to the movement than an asset. “This is keeping people away: It distracts a lot of energy away from the issues we’re fighting for when we’re just managing life in the camp,” said Bob Titley 56, one of the participants in Occupy Nashville. “A lot of women felt unsafe camping out at night. It discourages a lot of people from participating.”

The influx of homeless has been continuing at a steady pace, even as the overall populations of some of the demonstrations have faded under the pressures of dropping temperatures, the passage of time and increasingly aggressive police tactics. Some organizers estimated that as many as 30 percent of the people camping out in some cities were chronically homeless, a figure that seems impossible to verify.

That said, in many encampments, the evidence of a homeless population was plentiful amid the more high-quality tents: blankets, shopping carts, piles of clothes, and people sleeping on the grass, a sheet pulled over their heads. Nan Roman, president of the National Alliance to End Homelessness, said the demonstrators and the homeless have some shared interests.

“Homeless people, I think, identify with Occupy because it’s about inequities,” she said. “And it’s another group that is trying to live outside. It’s not surprising that there’s a confluence here.”

Interviews across the country attest to the complexity of the situation.

At Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, some homeless have integrated themselves into Occupy Wall Street, protesters said. But others, they said, appeared to be opportunists looking for free food and clothes, and were often disruptive. Hero Vincent, 21, said that he was a member of a security team that roamed the park and has several times broken up disputes involving people who appeared to be homeless.

“It’s bad for most of us who came here to build a movement,” he said. “We didn’t come here to start a recovery institution.”

In Chicago, where there has been a steady influx of homeless people, organizers said there were just occasional problems, involving drinking alcohol or provoking violence. “We just ask them to leave,” said Taylor Stekkinger, 18, a member the group’s organizational committee.

While some homeless people said they were appreciative of the protesters’ cause, other said they were more grateful for the amenities. Cameron Rose, 26, who spent the past two months sleeping in restrooms and under highways in Oakland, called it a welcome respite from a life of worry about food and safety.

“If I need clothes, someone donates clothes,” he said. “If I need to take a shower, someone helps me find a place to do that. If I need medical help, there are medics here. Everyone gets fed well, 24/7. I need medical marijuana but I have no money. Here, people give it to me.”

At a food tent here in Los Angeles, the homeless are often the first in line when a pot of stew comes out, many of them wandering over from Skid Row.

“If you are hungry and are in need of a meal, we will serve you as long as you do not disrupt the occupiers,” said Michele Watson, one of the managers of the food tent, on a soft and sunny day that was a reminder of why so many homeless people have settled in this city. “We don’t turn anyone away. I don’t care what your address is.”
36 2011-11-01 A plan by the State of Florida to transfer 29 of its prisons to private management is dead, at least for now. Gov. Rick Scott has decided not to appeal last month’s court decision that called the plan unconstitutional. The judge said in the ruling that Florida lawmakers had erred in tucking the measure into a budget bill to get it passed. The judge said the privatization plan — a “substantive” policy change — merited its own debate and should have been presented as a stand-alone bill.
37 2011-11-01 Rhinella’s brutal appetite is among a string of recent revelations of what might be called extreme or uncanny cannibalism, when one animal’s determination to feed on its fellows takes such a florid or subversive turn that scientists are left, as Mark Wilkinson of the in put it, “gobsmacked” by the sight.

There are males that demand to be cannibalized by their lovers and males that seek to avoid that fate by stopping midcourtship and hammily feigning rigor mortis. There are mother monkeys that act like hipster zombies, greeting unwanted offspring with a ghoulish demand for brains; and there are infant caecilians — limbless, soil-dwelling amphibians — that grow fat by repeatedly skinning their mother alive.

In the past, animal cannibalism was considered accidental or pathological: Walk in on a mother rabbit giving birth, and the shock will prod her to eat her bunnies. Now scientists realize that cannibalism can sometimes make good evolutionary sense, and for each new example they seek to trace the selective forces behind it.

Why do cane toad tadpoles cannibalize eggs? Researchers propose three motives. The practice speeds up maturation; it eliminates future rivals who, given a mother toad’s reproductive cycle, are almost certainly unrelated to you; and it means exploiting an abundant resource that others find toxic but to which you are immune.

“We’re talking about a tropical animal that was relocated to one of the driest places on earth,” Dr. Shine said. “Cannibalism is one of those clever tricks that makes it such a superb colonizer and a survival machine.”

Maydianne Andrade, a biologist at the University of Toronto Scarborough in , has studied the redback spider, a type of black widow in which males willingly fling themselves onto the fangs of their much bigger mates. Dr. Andrade has found that the self-sacrificial act is simply the grand finale of an elaborate courtship performance that can last hours.

The suitor leaps around the web to vibrate its silken strands just so. He vaults up and over the female, back to front, side to side, again and again. He somersaults tantalizingly close to her mouth and then flips himself clear.

Is she ready to mate? She allows the male to mount her and fill one of her paired sperm storage organs, but then, hold on buster, it’s time for more jitterbugging, more lordly leaping. The male dances around her jaws again, she lets him fill sperm receptacle No. 2, his genitals break off to help seal the deal, and that’s it. He somersaults toward her fangs for real, she makes a quick meal of him, and he dies in arachnirvana, his gametes well positioned to sire thousands of next-generation redbacks.

But woe to any suitor that lacks a daredevil stripe. The female will cut short his wan routine, cannibalize him prematurely and then instantly mate with a rival, as if out of spite.

Dr. Andrade said the male redback’s suicidal efforts made sense. Males are the size of rice grains and blown about by the wind, females are spottily distributed and hard to find, and a vast majority of males never encounter a single female. For the lucky few who do, there’s no time to waste: This is their one shot at legacy, and they throw their hearts and parts in her hands.

“It’s what we call a terminal ,” Dr. Andrade said.

For males with better dating prospects than the redback, the idea of connubial cannibalism may not seem so sexy, and the males do what they can to keep peckish females at bay. Among some species of widow spiders, males are preferentially drawn to females that smell as if they’ve just finished dinner, and hence are less likely to view approaching mate as a meal.

Studying Pisaura mirabilis, a slender, half-inch-long brown spider found in , Trine Bilde of Aarhus University and her colleagues have discovered that the males sometimes resort to a particularly melodramatic anticannibalism gambit. A male woos a female with a nuptial gift, a fresh-caught insect neatly bundled in silk and held aloft in his fangs. The female latches onto the gift with her fangs, and if she starts eating it calmly, the male slowly positions himself around her and starts transferring sperm.

If, however, the female grabs the parcel a little too hungrily, the male counters the predatory threat by playing spider possum. “He’s still holding onto the gift, but he stretches himself out into a deathlike pose, completely motionless, with his legs lagging behind,” Dr. Bilde said.

The female starts running around with the gift, the limp male dangling from it. Only when she finally grows tranquil enough to treat her present with care will the male dare to rouse himself back to life and lovemaking.

“This sort of death-feigning behavior has never been observed before in a sexual context,” Dr. Bilde said. “It’s very spectacular to see.”

Another skin-tingling spectacle is the kind of living cannibalism recently identified in two species of caecilians. These limbless tropical amphibians may live in soil and look like worms, but the mothers act like saints. For some three months after her young have hatched, the mother stays by their side, and repeatedly, literally feeds them herself.

Over a three-day period, the outer layer of the female’s skin gradually swells with and turns pale and glisteny. When moment and maternal epidermis are ripe, a half-dozen famished young caecilians surround her, and using rows of temporary, specialized teeth that look like slotted spoons or grappling hooks, they peel her, potato-style, from top to tail. They tug and yank. They fight over hanks.

“Within 10 minutes of fairly frenzied activity, they have peeled all the mother’s skin off,” said Dr. Wilkinson of the Natural History Museum, who with his colleagues reported on skin-feeding behavior in the journals Nature and Biology Letters. Mother Caecilia doesn’t seem to mind. Like a lactating Madonna, “she remains placid the whole time,” Dr. Wilkinson said.

Not all mothers are martyrs, of course, and even the good ones may have their monstrous moments. Tamarin monkeys are normally famed for extravagant devotion to their offspring, but in a recent issue of the journal Primates, Laurence Culot, now of São Paulo State University in , and her colleagues described witnessing a rare case of maternal cannibalism among wild mustached tamarins of .

A mother tamarin holding her infant son was foraging for fruit with her adult daughter. One moment the charming tableau looked fine, baby monkey clinging adorably to mother’s fur. The next, the researchers watched as the mother bit through the baby’s skull and ate out its brain. And once the mother had polished off the entire head, her adult daughter partook of some shoulder.

“I was really, really surprised — it was a totally unexpected thing to see among wild tamarins,” Dr. Culot said. “I couldn’t help thinking, ‘Oh, my God, I forgot my camera!’ ”

The researchers propose that, in a way, the grisly act was an expression of maternal love. The adult daughter turned out to be pregnant at the time. Tamarin infants are so demanding that rearing them is a group affair, and if the mother’s infant survived, the daughter’s wouldn’t have a chance. Through a shared act of cannibalism, mother and daughter made their pact.
38 2011-11-01 Without resorting to intrusive tools, scientists have used X-rays and CT scans to reveal new information about a 2,000-year-old Egyptian mummy.

“You can get an enormous amount of information through medical imaging without damaging priceless artifacts, unlike the studies in the 1960s, where you cut them open,” said Sarah U. Wisseman, a mummy expert at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, who is leading the research, along with a pathologist, radiologist and a physical anthropologist.

The mummy was of a child who lived in the Greek-Roman period of Egyptian history, 332 B.C. to A.D. 395. Dr. Wisseman and colleagues scanned it in 1990 — describing it in her book “The Virtual Mummy” (Illinois, 2003) — and then again this year, since technology has improved in recent years.

The child’s skull was cracked, and although that was known from the old scans, the new scans reveal it was much worse than previously thought. “There’s an extra piece of a bone pushed into the cranium cavity,” Dr. Wisseman said. “We still don’t know if it occurred before or after death.”

The new scans also show there was probably a lock of hair on one side of the head — something seen in Roman portraits from the time. The lock was a sign of status, indicating the child was from a wealthy family. Supporting that hypothesis, the mummy’s wrappings contain gilding and red pigment imported from Spain.

Still a mystery is the child’s sex. Its pelvis is collapsed, and its hands cover the genital area.

Dr. Wisseman will present the findings on Wednesday at a symposium on mummies at the university.
39 2011-11-01 When drugs called bisphosphonates were introduced to prevent and treat osteoporosis (Fosamax, now available as a generic called alendronate, was the first), overly enthusiastic doctors prescribed them for millions of postmenopausal women who were not at high risk of fracture. These were women whose bone density in the hip or spine measured below that of a healthy 35-year-old but still not near the level associated with osteoporosis.

I was one, and like many others, at age 60 I had what the World Health Organization has labeled osteopenia, not osteoporosis. Osteopenia is defined as a bone density “T-score” between minus 1.0 and minus 2.5, the lower number being the cutoff for osteoporosis.

Osteopenia is analogous to prediabetes or prehypertension, and as with these conditions, Dr. Khosla recommends that most cases of osteopenia are best treated with protective lifestyle measures, not drugs.

Dr. Khosla, a professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., suggested in an interview that before turning to drugs, people with osteopenia could try to prevent further bone loss with regular weight-bearing and strength-training exercise, adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D, not smoking and limiting alcohol consumption to one drink a day.

The exceptions — those most likely to benefit from drug treatment even if they do not yet have osteoporosis — include people who already have had a low-trauma fracture and those with a bone density level approaching osteoporosis who also have other risk factors, like early menopause, a family history of osteoporosis, the use of steroid drugs (prednisone and others that increase bone loss), extreme thinness, a digestive problem that limits calcium absorption or advanced age.

“Age is itself a major risk factor for fracture,” said Dr. Ethel Siris, director of the osteoporosis clinic at Columbia University Medical Center in New York. Even at the same bone density, a woman of 75 or older is more likely to experience a fall and fracture than a woman of 55.

Dr. Siris explained that with age, changes in the architecture of bones diminish their strength, which can be countered by bisphosphonates. Current thinking in the field, she said, is to place women at risk of fracture on a drug like Fosamax for five years and then perhaps take a one-year drug holiday. For two other bisphosphonates, Actonel and Boniva, she suggests a drug holiday of 6 to 12 months after seven years of treatment.

On average, the bisphosphonates reduce the risk of a fragility fracture by 30 to 50 percent. By comparison, the risk of the most talked-about serious side effect — an atypical fracture of the femur, or thigh bone — is minuscule.

A recently published study examined the use of bisphosphonates among 12,777 Swedish women age 55 or older who suffered a fracture of the femur in 2008. Although those who had taken the drugs were 47 times as likely as those who had not to have experienced an atypical femur fracture, the actual number of these fractures was only 5 in 2,000 women who had used the drugs for five years.

Dr. Khosla estimated that the drugs would have prevented more than 100 osteoporotic fractures in these women, a benefit at least 20 times greater than the risk.

Furthermore, this unusual fracture can be prevented because it is preceded by a warning sign — bone changes that cause pain or discomfort in the thigh or groin that persists for weeks or months. If this occurs, Dr. Siris said, you should see your doctor without delay and get an X-ray.

If the X-ray is inconclusive, a bone scan or M.R.I. should follow. If an abnormality is found, Dr. Khosla said, the drug should be stopped and an orthopedist familiar with the problem should be consulted. If keeping weight off the leg does not result in healing, he said, a rod can be surgically inserted in the femur to prevent a fracture.

But Dr. Siris warned against assuming that any pain in the thigh is being caused by the drug. She said too many patients who are at high risk of an osteoporotic fracture stop the drug on their own when in fact the pain could result from sciatica or arthritis in the hip.

As for the risk from calcium supplements, the study that linked them to heart attacks and strokes did not consider how much calcium the women consumed.

Dr. Siris, among others, recommends 1,200 milligrams a day from diet alone or a combination of diet and a supplement. She noted that each serving of dairy (a cup of milk or yogurt or chunk of cheese) provides about 300 milligrams, and most people get another 200 or 300 from nondairy sources.

She said, “If too little calcium is consumed, parathyroid hormone will take calcium from the bones to maintain a normal blood level” of this essential mineral. Vitamin D — about 1,000 to 2,000 international units a day — is also important to assure adequate calcium absorption, especially for those “with bad bones,” she said.
40 2011-11-01 Women driving cars are much more likely than male drivers to be seriously injured in a crash, even when both groups wear seat belts, according to a new report.

Researchers at the University of Virginia reviewed information on 45,445 crash victims gathered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration over 11 years. Their study was published online Oct. 20 in The American Journal of Public Health.

Compared with male drivers in the study, women were 5 ½ inches shorter and 35 pounds lighter; fewer were overweight; and more were driving passenger cars at the time of the crash. After controlling for these factors and others, the researchers found that women were 47 percent more likely to suffer severe injuries.

The investigators say female drivers are more susceptible to injury because of differences in neck strength and musculature, the positioning of head restraints, and their shorter stature and preferred seating posture. Car safety devices have been designed largely for men, and women may need safety features that take into account their differences.

For now, “female drivers can ensure that their safety systems perform optimally, including maintaining a good belt fit and correct seating posture,” said Dipan Bose, lead author of the study and a research scientist at the University of Virginia.
41 2011-11-01 Chronic insomnia may increase the risk of heart attack, according to a large new study.

Norwegian researchers had more than 52,610 men and women fill out health questionnaires that asked, among many other questions, how often they had difficulty falling asleep, how often they woke up and were unable to go back to sleep, and how often they awoke with a feeling that they had slept poorly. Then they followed the subjects for more than 11 years.

After adjusting for numerous health and lifestyle factors, they found that compared with people who never had sleep problems, those who had trouble falling asleep had a 45 percent increased relative risk of heart attack. People with problems staying asleep had a 30 percent increased risk, and those who woke up tired a 27 percent increase.

The results were similar even among those who were free of all chronic disorders at the start of the study. The researchers did not control for sleep apnea, known to be associated with cardiovascular illness, but they did control for body mass index and blood pressure, two factors highly correlated with that disorder.

“This is just one study,” said the report’s lead author, Dr. Lars E. Laugsand of the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, “and more are needed to try to explain the mechanisms behind these associations, which are unclear.”

The report was published online Oct. 24 in the journal Circulation.
42 2011-11-01 Major indices in Europe closed down around 3 percent, and by the close Monday in New York, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was almost 2.5 percent lower, at 1,253.30, while the Dow Jones industrial average was down about 2.3 percent at 11,955.01 and the Nasdaq composite was down by 1.9 percent.

“Although encouraged by what we consider to be a good start, we suspect Europe will require other measures going forward to effectively deal with its sovereign debt problems,” said USAA Investment Management Company in another note.

Analysts have forecast a period of market volatility in the wake of the deal last Thursday, saying that European officials must still demonstrate viable efforts to restore growth and bring longer-term fixes to the debt problems of the countries that share the euro.

Italian 10-year government bond yields pushed above 6 percent, to levels not seen since August. Credit-default swap rates on a basket of Western European government debt were wider at 304, a difference of about 15 basis points from Friday, according to Markit, although Greece debt spreads was just a half point wider and spreads widened in Italy by 40 basis points.

In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index of euro zone blue chips closed down 3.1 percent, while markets in Germany and Paris lost about 3.2 percent. The FTSE 100 in London was down 2.8 percent. Asian markets were down around 1 percent or less.

“I think it is a big sell-off — profit-taking after an enormous, ferocious, violent run upward,” said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management, speaking about the declines in stocks.

But he also forecast that some of the data to be released this week could restore market attention to the economy in the United States.

“I think Europe is certainly part of the reason” for the down day, he said. “Where we end this week is going to have more to do with the data coming from Main Street, U.S.A.”

In particular, Federal Reserve policymakers hold a two-day meeting that ends on Wednesday, and on Friday the government’s monthly report on the job market is released. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect 95,000 in nonfarm payrolls for October, down from 103,000 the previous month.

Last week figures on United States gross domestic product showed growth rose in the third quarter, suggesting that the recovery had not stalled: total output of goods and services grew at an annual rate of 2.5 percent.

Financial stocks were down 3.8 percent on Monday. Energy stocks were nearly 4.4 percent lower and materials were down 4 percent. The first American casualty of the European debt crisis, MF Global, filed for bankruptcy protection for its United States parent company on Monday.

“Firms can go under remarkably quickly,” said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, reflecting on the liquidity issues of the company

“What we are seeing are the skeptics of the European plan come out of the woodwork today,” Mr. LeBas said, remarking on trade in general in the financial markets.

The United States 10-year Treasury bond yield was 2.13 percent compared with 2.32 percent on Friday.
43 2011-11-01 LONDON - As the Continent grapples with the sovereign debt crisis, financial regulatory revision in Europe has been put on the back burner, with some rules delayed until at least 2013.     The changing priorities have left investment banks, hedge ...
44 2011-11-01 The markets were haunted this Halloween by the ghosts of the past financial crisis.     With MF Global filing for bankruptcy on Monday, investors pummeled many financial stocks, fearful that problems were lurking on the books of other Wall Street ...
45 2011-11-01 9:55 p.m. | Updated  Federal regulators have discovered that hundreds of millions of dollars in customer money has gone missing from MF Global in recent days, prompting an investigation into the brokerage firm, which is run by Jon S. Corzine, the ...
46 2011-11-02 Connie Hedegaard, Europe's climate chief, describes a declaration of opposition to Europe's plan to control emissions as a "missed opportunity."...
47 2011-11-02 Connie Hedegaard, Europe's climate chief, describes a declaration of opposition to Europe's plan to control emissions as a "missed opportunity."...
48 2011-11-02 Apple confirmed software bugs are hurting battery life on the iPhone 4S. It also said the software bugs are in iOS 5, a new version of Apple's operating system that also runs older models of the iPhone and the iPad. It thinks it can fix the proble...
49 2011-11-02 Apple confirmed software bugs are hurting battery life on the iPhone 4S. It also said the software bugs are in iOS 5, a new version of Apple's operating system that also runs older models of the iPhone and the iPad. It thinks it can fix the proble...
50 2011-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
51 2011-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
52 2011-11-02 The purely electric hatchback will be priced on par with the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, but will still cost thousands more than the Nissan Leaf....
53 2011-11-02 The purely electric hatchback will be priced on par with the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, but will still cost thousands more than the Nissan Leaf....
54 2011-11-02 An air of mystery surrounds the sale....
55 2011-11-02 An air of mystery surrounds the sale....
56 2011-11-02 Thomas J. Sargent of New York University, this year's co-recipient of the Nobel  in economic science,  has signed on as a consultant for Hutchin Hill, a multistrategy hedge fund with $1.5 billion in assets under management....
57 2011-11-02 Thomas J. Sargent of New York University, this year's co-recipient of the Nobel in economic science, has signed on as a consultant for Hutchin Hill, a multistrategy hedge fund with $1.5 billion in assets under management....
58 2011-11-02 The Cain campaign, already dealing with sexual harassment allegations against the candidate, also faces questions on possible campaign finance irregularities....
59 2011-11-02 The Cain campaign, already dealing with sexual harassment allegations against the candidate, also faces questions on possible campaign finance irregularities....
60 2011-11-02 China and United States are among 26 countries backing a resolution calling on the European Union to exempt their airlines from a cap and trade system....
61 2011-11-02 China and United States are among 26 countries backing a resolution calling on the European Union to exempt their airlines from a cap and trade system....
62 2011-11-02 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
63 2011-11-02 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
64 2011-11-02 The Day: Here we go again, having to hear political candidates and television commentators exploit some of the most brutal and disgraceful chapters in history to score points. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
65 2011-11-02 The Day: Here we go again, having to hear political candidates and television commentators exploit some of the most brutal and disgraceful chapters in history to score points. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
66 2011-11-02 Iran’s finance minister survived a vote in Parliament on Tuesday to remove him from office over the country’s banking scandal, the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency reported. More than two dozen lawmakers had submitted a motion to impeach the minister, Shamseddin Hosseini, an ally of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who oversaw country’s economy during the time Iranian authorities have said a record $2.6 billion banking fraud occurred. Mr. Ahmadinejad’s conservative critics have tried to link his close associates to the alleged fraud. It was unclear what affect the vote would have on Parliament’s request to summon Mr. Ahmadinejad himself for questioning.
67 2011-11-02 President Juan Manuel Santos dissolved the country’s main intelligence agency, the sprawling Administrative Department of Security, or DAS, after a series of scandals that severely damaged the agency’s credibility. DAS illegally spied on human rights activists, judges and political leaders, and its former spymaster, Jorge Noguera, was recently convicted of collaborating with paramilitary assassination squads in the murder of a prominent scholar. Mr. Santos, above, in an executive order issued late Monday, said about 3,000 DAS employees would migrate to the attorney general’s office, while the Interior Ministry, National Police and Foreign Ministry would absorb almost 2,000 other employees. A new intelligence agency is to be created.
68 2011-11-02 No one can know for sure if this is just the eternally unpredictable chaos of weather on earth or it is something more ominous; call it the new abnormal. But in recent years, suburban and rural residents have found themselves facing multiple disruptions like Mr. Frohne’s. Experts say the violent weather of the past few years in the Northeast is stressing the 20th century above-ground utility grid as never before, along with the people who depend on it.

Few solutions are in sight. A report by the Edison Electric Institute updated at the end of 2010 said that over the past 10 years, at least 11 states studied putting utility lines underground — usually after devastating storms — only to find it too expensive. “To date, no state utility commission has recommended wholesale undergrounding of the utility infrastructure,” it concluded.

By Tuesday afternoon, 1.7 million customers in the Northeast remained without service, according to The Associated Press, many of them repeat victims of power failures that have left residents increasingly jittery with each new storm.

Sue Gress of New Canaan, Conn., said she tolerated the week spent without electricity to pump her well or run her refrigerator after Tropical Storm Irene, even though she had to lug a bucket of water from her swimming pool to flush her toilet, live mostly on peanut butter crackers and swim instead of showering.

But the warm weather two months ago seems a far cry from the snowstorm that drove her shivering from her home last weekend. And at 79 and living alone, Ms. Gress finds a stray crisis tolerable but definitely not a steady diet of them.

She worries that meteorological excess is becoming the rule.

“It’s global warming,” she said. “No one wants to believe it, but things are changing. There’s much more violent weather, and we’re not prepared to deal with it.”

At least this disruption did not go on as long. She got her lights back on Tuesday after three days.

After her own troubles this weekend, Susan Callahan of Summit, N.J., is for the first time wondering about her comfortable suburban life.

On Saturday night, a branch from one of the old trees that surround the house she has lived in for 30 years crashed down and ripped off part of her gutter and badly damaged the roof of her porch. Then on Sunday, her husband, John Callahan, trying to clean up the property, slipped on an icy stone and hit his head, and Mrs. Callahan had to brave debris-strewn roads to get him to a hospital emergency room, where he got six stitches.

On Monday, Mrs. Callahan drove to a State Farm insurance office in New Providence to file a claim, but the office was without power and closed. She left a note under the office’s locked door. It read, “Help.”

Having also lost electricity during the tropical storm, she admits to being a bit rattled.

“I called my friend who lives in New York City today and said, ‘When can we come move there?’ ” Mrs. Callahan said.

She was not really ready to move but said that for the first time she was thinking about whether it made sense to live in an environment less at the mercy of the weather.

“I don’t know what’s going on, with tsunamis and volcanoes erupting and earthquakes all over the world,” Mrs. Callahan said. “But things sure are weird.”

Others see more human failures than cosmic ones.

The utility Consolidated Edison “has gotten so unbelievably bad,” said David Kirschstein, an 83-year-old retired patent lawyer, who has been living in the same house in Chappaqua, N.Y., for 44 years.

“The winters used to be much worse, but even with the big snows, we had nothing like the outages over the past four or five years,” he continued. “I’m just sick of it.”

A year ago, Mr. Kirschstein bought his first generator, which came in handy when his power went out this weekend. “It seemed worth the money to get the generator because Con Ed is terrible,” he said.

In fact, for increasing numbers of people, a generator is seen as a necessity, if an expensive and imperfect one.

Eric Nowlin, vice president for customer service for Grainger, an industrial supply company, said his generator sales around Tropical Storm Irene were tenfold what is normal for that time of year, with people shopping at his stores when mass-market retailers like Lowe’s are sold out. He said during and after the tropical storm, Grainger sold “thousands and thousands” of generators.

“This kind of weather is becoming a fact of life,” he said. “People are saying, ‘I want to get a generator for the next time this happens.’ ”

The issues also go beyond electricity.

Martha Frankel, a writer who lives in West Shokan in the Catskills, said she and her husband lost a private bridge connecting their property to the main road after Tropical Storm Irene, which left them in the dark for 16 days. Then, a month later, heavy rains washed away the temporary replacement bridge.

“I think in the last year, we’ve had Irene, which could be the 500-year storm, plus three 10-year storms, a 50-year storm and a 100-year storm,” Ms. Frankel said. “When it rains, nobody sleeps on my road. The stream starts roaring, and there are thousands of trees in it. I’m not feeling particularly safe and comforted.

“We love this town, and we love our house and community. We always said we would die here. And now, I think, I don’t know.”
69 2011-11-02 On Tuesday, a lawyer for Mr. Boyland told the jury there was no evidence that his client had accepted bribes and that the government’s case “rests really on cynicism, speculation and suspicion, because you are not going to find evidence of that unlawful agreement,” the lawyer, Richard H. Rosenberg, said in his opening statement.

He said Mr. Boyland had done genuine consulting work for Brookdale, an arrangement he had reached with David P. Rosen, then the chief executive of MediSys, the nonprofit sponsor of Brookdale and other hospitals, nursing homes and neighborhood health centers in Queens and Brooklyn.

MediSys retained Mr. Boyland “because of his contacts and his influence in the community,” Mr. Rosenberg said.

He added that MediSys did not need to bribe a freshman assemblyman and that the organization had its own “lobby machine” and staff that prepared budget presentations to state agencies. He said his client’s acts “were all totally consistent with his responsibility to his community, to his district.”

Mr. Rosen was tried this summer by Judge Jed S. Rakoff — in a nonjury trial, at Mr. Rosen’s request. In September, Judge Rakoff issued a ruling finding Mr. Rosen guilty of seeking to bribe Mr. Boyland and two other Democratic officials — Assemblyman Anthony S. Seminerio of Queens and Senator Carl Kruger of Brooklyn — in return for favorable treatment for MediSys.

Mr. Seminerio, who pleaded guilty to fraud in an earlier case, has since died; Mr. Kruger and his codefendants are to be tried in January.

Mr. Boyland declined to comment after the trial’s first day, which was attended by his parents and other supporters.

His father, William F. Boyland Sr., 71, who served two decades in the same Assembly seat until his son replaced him in 2003, said: “I just have to believe in the justice system. We must believe in it.”

William F. Boyland Sr. succeeded his brother, Thomas S. Boyland, who won the seat in the late 1970s but died at age 39 in 1982. The younger Mr. Boyland’s sister, Tracy, served on the City Council as well.

Their legacy in Brooklyn also endures in the streets: Mr. Boyland Jr.’s district office is at 467 Thomas S. Boyland Street. Public School No. 73 is known as the Thomas S. Boyland School. The William F. Boyland Early Childhood Academy is on Sutter Avenue. There is also a Thomas Boyland Park.

Mr. Rosenberg, the defense lawyer, did not ignore the family’s history in his statement, telling jurors that Boyland was “a brand name” in his community and part of “a legacy of more than 30 years of people in his family who have represented” the district.

There was a quiet, subdued atmosphere on Tuesday at Assemblyman Boyland’s district office, where several employees answered telephones or worked at their computers. “We’re fine,” a receptionist said.

Mr. Boyland faces a maximum of 20 years in prison if convicted on one conspiracy count and 5 years on the other, although under federal advisory sentencing guidelines he is likely to face some shorter sentence. Under the law, he would also lose his legislative seat if convicted.

Mr. Rosenberg told the jurors that the suggestion of a no-show job was “a distraction from what was basically a good-will arrangement, bringing on a Boyland to be the name and the face of an outreach to a community and to build trust.”

But in his opening argument, the prosecutor, Mr. Harrington, said the people of Brooklyn had entrusted Mr. Boyland with the power to pass laws and to use his position on their behalf. Mr. Boyland “took the people’s trust and sold them out,” he said.
70 2011-11-02 A business plan that was released Tuesday projects that the cost to link the state’s major cities by high-speed rail has ballooned to nearly $100 billion over 20 years, accounting for inflation. The plan comes after Gov. Jerry Brown appointed two new members to California’s high-speed rail commission and asked them to assess the proposal’s viability. They concluded that the project was doable, if built in phases, but that the cost would be more than double the original projection. The report shows the estimated cost at $98.5 billion if the route between San Francisco and Anaheim is completed in 2033. The initial estimate to build the system when voters approved bond financing for it in 2008 was $43 billion. In non-adjusted, 2010 dollars, that amount is now $65.4 billion. The plan calls for retaining the most controversial aspect: starting construction in the Central Valley. Critics want to start in more populated areas of Southern or Northern California in case money runs out before the full system is finished. But $3.5 billion in federal money is contingent upon the Central Valley route, and construction must begin before October 2012.
71 2011-11-02 WASHINGTON (AP) — Manufacturing grew more slowly in October, hampered by weaker demand for exports and slower production at factories.

But companies ordered more goods, factories slashed their stockpiles and auto sales rose. Those trends suggest manufacturing activity could rebound in the coming months.

The data, which also showed a slight uptick in construction spending in September, points to an economy that is growing but remains too sluggish to lower the unemployment rate, which has been stuck at 9.1 percent for three consecutive months.

The Institute for Supply Management said Tuesday that its manufacturing index dropped to 50.8, down from 51.6 in September. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion.

Measures of production and new export orders fell. A gauge of employment dipped but remained strong enough to signal that factories were adding workers.
72 2011-11-02 The agribusiness giant Archer Daniels Midland said its profit slumped on soaring corn prices and poor oilseed processing margins. But it said that trading revenue on commodities was higher, allowing it to navigate choppy markets better than its rivals.

While volatile markets tripped up competitors like Cargill and Bunge in grains trading, A.D.M. reported its grain merchandising and handling profits more than doubled as exports from the Black Sea region resumed after a yearlong hiatus.

A.D.M.’s strong performance came even as its export volumes from the United States were lower, highlighting investments in Eastern Europe and Asia.

But soaring corn prices, which more than doubled over the last year, squeezed the world’s largest processor of the grain, with profit down 23 percent in bioproducts, which includes ethanol, and down 81 percent in sweeteners and starches.

Archer Daniels posted adjusted earnings of 58 cents a share, which excluding inventory gains and one-time items, was down 13 percent from a year ago.

Shares of A.D.M. fell 4 percent, to close at $27.74.

For the fiscal first quarter that ended Sept. 30, A.D.M. reported a profit of $460 million, or 68 cents a share, up from $345 million, or 54 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.
73 2011-11-02 The uniquely Haitian product, called Nourimanba, is an essential medicine for about 10,000 severely malnourished children a year. It is distributed to clinics by Partners in Health, a Boston-based nonprofit organization that is the largest provider of health care services in rural Haiti.

A few hundred yards away lies a roadway of rocks leading to an empty lot. Rising soon: an 18,000-square-foot manufacturing plant to produce the vitamin-enriched peanut butter on a much larger scale. In addition, some regular peanut butter may also be exported for sale to sustain the business.

If Abbott can build an oasis of locally grown, nutritious food manufacturing in Haiti, it will be a little bit of green in a notoriously dark place, where it is difficult to make any real difference in people’s lives.

“If you’re going to see a transformational change in a place like Haiti, it’s going to take a strategy beyond philanthropy,” said Katherine F. Pickus, Abbott’s divisional vice president for global citizenship and policy. “We saw this as an opportunity for Abbott to not only give its products, but its expertise as a nutrition business.”

Even before the 2010 earthquake heaped more misery atop the poverty in Haiti, one in four children had stunted growth. An estimated 2.2 percent of Haitian children under the age of 5 had severe acute malnutrition, according to the United Nations Children’s Fund.

Now it is worse. The quake killed 316,000, according to the government, and forced hundreds of thousands of people to leave the devastated capital city, Port-au-Prince, for the deeply impoverished plateau.

Nourimanba is a high-calorie, high-protein, peanut-based paste that does not require mixing with water or refrigeration. It is a ready-to-use therapeutic food for severe malnutrition.

“We’ve been producing locally grown therapeutic food since 2007,” said Joan VanWassenhove, associate coordinator for nutrition in Haiti for Partners in Health. “But Abbott’s involvement will help with quantity, as well as quality, and help with higher levels of food safety and sanitation standards. In our eyes, it’s going to be an astounding success.”

As one small part of its work there, the health organization runs the Nourimanba operation near Corporant, about 30 miles north of Port-au-Prince. The group, affiliated with Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, was founded in 1987 to help Haiti. It has about 15,000 employees around the world.

While the rudimentary production plant makes about 70 tons of Nourimanba for 10,000 children a year, the new one will push capacity to more than 350 tons and 50,000 children, the health group’s spokesman, Andrew Marx, said. Children receive it daily for six to eight weeks. The new operation will also expand on the 300 or so farmers who have a guaranteed market for their peanut crops.

“An alternative to poverty and disease is to have a virtuous cycle of health, well-being and opportunity,” Mr. Marx said.

“I’ve seen some children who are malnourished in my community receive Nourimanba,” one of the peanut farmers, Wesley Louis-Jean, said. “They regain their strength quickly with it. I’m happy to see that.”

Abbott and its foundation previously worked with the health group in Malawi, Africa, to pay for a new clinic. “But this is a departure,” Ms. VanWassenhove said. “It’s not Abbott coming in and saying we have an idea we can do. It’s more like saying we want to take your vision and make it the best possible.”

The charity is also a point of pride for a drug company that has been involved with some dark chapters in pharmaceutical history. Just last month, Abbott set aside $1.5 billion in anticipation of settling criminal and civil investigations that it had illegally marketed the epilepsy drug, Depakote, to elderly patients with dementia, for whom it was unsafe.

Abbott, which had a $4.5 billion profit on $38.4 billion in sales in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, has been listed by The Chronicle of Philanthropy as one of the most generous companies in the United States. In 2010, The Chronicle found, 91 percent of Abbott’s giving, or $572 million, was in the form of products, the fourth-highest ratio among major companies.

The view from Abbott is one of being thankful to work on such a meaningful project as the nutrition factory, according to Daniel Schmitz, a scientist and laboratory director of Abbott Nutrition in Columbus, Ohio, who is leading the nutritional team on the project.

Abbott is donating the time of food scientists, chemists, microbiologists, formulation developers and process engineers, he said.

Their work starts with the recipe. Nourimanba is made of peanuts, milk powder, vegetable oil, sugar and a specially formulated vitamin mix.

It’s “a very good recipe, and it provides everything we need for malnutrition,” Mr. Schmitz said. But Abbott is looking at alternatives to the milk powder because it is imported and expensive.

“We’re going to look at things that are a viable crop in Haiti,” Mr. Schmitz said. That may include soybeans, beans or other legumes — locally sourced ingredients that could cut that cost in half. “I’m excited about that part of it because that’s really a true R.& D. effort, and it just offers the potential to build in something that is truly Haitian,” he said.

Then there is the factory. Groundbreaking was delayed this year by an outbreak of cholera that caused 6,000 deaths in Haiti. Now groundbreaking is planned for January and production before the end of 2012.

“We’re building it to be a very robust, simple operation,” Mr. Schmitz said. For instance, the women picking out bad peanuts will be inspecting them on a table with a vibrating conveyer belt that aligns the nuts and bounces them so workers can see the tops and bottoms.

“They’re still manually picking, but it’s much more efficient because you’re not rolling peanuts around a basket,” Mr. Schmitz said.

The pickers said they appreciate this job, any job. “I didn’t have any work at all before this,” said one, Marie-Jo Louis-Beatrice.

Half the number of pickers will be needed in the new place, but the others will be trained for other jobs, Mr. Schmitz said. Total employment is expected to rise to about 60 workers from 40 as the plant capacity expands fivefold.

And that’s running just one shift. Mr. Schmitz said the plant could run many more hours if it finds more supplies and children to help.
74 2011-11-02 As the ranks of the needy grow, so does the need for charities that put food on a poor family’s table, a roof over a homeless man’s head or a coat on the back of a child whose mother is in prison, or for the charities that provide dental work for a woman without health insurance.

The number of Americans living below the poverty line — 46.2 million — is the highest it has been since the Census Bureau began collecting such data. Median incomes are declining, and college graduates can’t find jobs. The gap between the haves and have-nots has widened sharply.

Yet for the last three years, state and local governments have slashed budgets that address homelessness, school nutrition, substance abuse and a range of other social services. In some cases, money is cut outright; in others, governments defer payments for months. Still others have been asking pointed questions about what their residents receive in return for the exemptions from property and sales taxes granted to nonprofits.

While many Americans have always given generously to help people, many others — including individuals with the deepest pockets and foundations with billions in assets — make donations of a different sort: building museums to house their art collections; underwriting new wings in hospitals or halls named for them at their alma maters; using their money and influence to sway public policy and influence political campaigns; or seeking to solve problems in distant lands rather than in their own backyards.

While charitable giving rose slightly over all in 2010, gifts to organizations that address basic human needs fell 6.6 percent, according to Giving USA. And the middle class, which has traditionally given more to address those needs, is feeling the bite of the economic malaise.

“At a time when America is having a debate about the social contract, philanthropy is silent,” said Emmett D. Carson, chief executive of the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, which has assets of $2 billion. “We are silent about the depths of the problems of homelessness, joblessness, foreclosure, hunger, and people are starting to believe that philanthropy is irrelevant to the core needs of their communities.”

As an example, he cites various proposals by the Obama administration to reduce the tax deductions for charitable giving — like reducing that benefit for the wealthy. “Because of our silence, we now have a president, a former community organizer, who does not value the charitable deduction,” Mr. Carson said. “What he’s saying is that, left to its own devices, government can spend those dollars better than philanthropists.”

Mr. Carson, one of the most prominent African-Americans in institutional philanthropy, has long been known as a sort of Diogenes, unafraid to debunk the mythology that cloaks philanthropic institutions. “As an industry, we prefer to be bystanders,” he said of institutional philanthropists. “We are afraid of controversy, and we don’t like to explain why we make the choices we make as grant makers.”

An alumnus of the Ford Foundation, Mr. Carson came to Silicon Valley to oversee the merger of two community foundations in Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties, home to some of the world’s wealthiest people, and he subsequently ruffled more than a few feathers there. The merged Silicon Valley Community Foundation’s first project took aim at foreclosure. “I got asked at least a million times, why are you working on foreclosure, what does that have to do with these counties?” Mr. Carson said.

His staff had been conducting public meetings, he said, where they heard over and over that people were struggling with mortgage payments. “It was the tale of two valleys,” he said. “One is very well known, filled with high-tech and social media moguls that can find enough people with the talent and skills their companies need. And then there’s the other Silicon Valley, the one that has some of the highest unemployment rates, the highest foreclosure rates, the highest dropout rates — and the highest cost of living.”

In addition to foreclosure, the foundation took on payday lending and financial literacy and set up a “community opportunity fund” that pays for food for the hungry and shelter for those losing their homes.

As a result, more than $6 million has been distributed to food pantries and shelters since 2008.

“We can’t expect philanthropy to fill in all the gaps,” Mr. Carson said. “But we can’t be ostriches, either.”

But not all philanthropists want to work on this level, and many of the generous have their own specific crusades. On the same day the Census Bureau announced its poverty statistics, the Found Animals Foundation, which works to help stray and abandoned animals, announced it would award a $25 million prize to any scientist who finds a nonsurgical method for spaying and neutering animals.

Dr. Gary Michelson, the billionaire orthopedic surgeon behind the foundation and the prize, also put up an additional $50 million to support the research needed to reach that goal — and said he would provide more, if needed. “If the first 50 goes, I’ll put in another 50,” he said. “I intend to finish this.”

Echoing many big donors, Dr. Michelson said that passive donation of money does not lead to the sort of fundamental structural changes that he seeks to spark. “Early on what I learned was that, yes, you can write checks and mail them off — just don’t expect a lot for that,” Dr. Michelson said.

A few years ago, for example, he read about a group of professors from a community college who put up $500 in an effort to keep students from dropping out because they couldn’t afford textbooks. Horrified, he contributed $50,000.

“That was the right thing to do, but all I did was the equivalent of giving a hungry person a fish,” Dr. Michelson said. “What I needed to do was come up with a more permanent solution.”

So he is starting a nonprofit that hopes to digitize textbooks and put them online for students to download at little or no cost. “Of course, this is something the government should do, but my saying it won’t help move the government to do it,” he said.

Similarly, William E. Conway Jr., the billionaire co-founder of the Carlyle Group, recently told The Washington Post that he was dissatisfied with giving tens of millions of dollars to nonprofits that provide food, shelter and health care to the needy. “So much of what I do now is stopgap,” he told The Post. “Somebody’s hungry, we give money to the food bank. It would be far better if we had a more permanent solution.”

Mr. Conway, who declined to speak to The New York Times, told The Post that he hoped to use his philanthropy to create jobs and other more “enduring” things.

Mr. Buffett pledged the bulk of his fortune to the Gates Foundation but insists that his sister Doris is the “real philanthropist” in the family. Ms. Buffett presides over the Sunshine Lady Foundation, which does nothing but help people in need.

“Who am I to dispute what Warren says?” she said.

She recently visited a maximum-security prison where 11 inmates were getting degrees from accredited colleges, including Cornell and Mercy College, through her philanthropy. “The general recidivism rate is about 63 percent coast to coast,” Ms. Buffett said. “In our program, it’s zero.”

A similar program she started works to provide education to victims of domestic violence. More than 1,600 women have graduated under it, and “one went on to the Wharton School,” she said.

Ms. Buffett had long been giving away money when her brother made his pledge to the Gates Foundation. So when he began getting letters from people asking for his help, he put them in a box and sent them to her, along with $10 million.

“I rounded up a bunch of ladies, and we started reading letters,” she said. “Some of them were nutty, but most of them were from people who were genuinely desperate and just needed a little help.”

They asked for money to put tires on their cars so they could get to work, for new glasses, for hearing aids, for custody payments and myriad other things. “We checked out their stories,” Ms. Buffett said. “We never enable anyone, we empower them.”

One woman, for instance, had crippling arthritis, and her husband wasn’t working. Ms. Buffett agreed to help out — only if the husband found a job. “I said, ‘You send me a Xerox of his paycheck, and we’ll match it until Christmas,’ ” Ms. Buffett recalled. “The first week, I think he got something like $75 for raking leaves or yard work, but by the second or third week, he was employed by one of those big national hardware chains. We got that fellow up out of his Barcalounger — we empowered him.”

During more than a decade of philanthropy, Ms. Buffett has paid for tires, roofs, wheelchairs and refrigerators — “It doesn’t have to be the swankiest one,” she said — and covered legal bills for custody fights and electric bills to ensure heat. Money for dental work is a common request, and on occasion she has paid for trips to the Mayo Clinic “so they can get a proper diagnosis and some help.”

“I do consider these as investments rather than giveaways, and I’m looking for a good return on them,” she said. “The best return is when lives change for the better in some way, that’s the commanding thought behind all I do.”

Her program to educate prisoners is an example of what many in the nonprofit world call “impact investing,” a catchall phrase to describe unconventional ways of getting money into nonprofit coffers and reducing the reliance on philanthropy.

In Britain, for example, Her Majesty’s Prison Peterborough has long had high rates of recidivism. A new nonprofit group, Social Finance, raised money to address that problem in part through the sale of $8 million worth of “bonds” to foundations and wealthy individuals.

If Social Finance succeeds in reducing recidivism by 7.5 percent or more, the British government will not only repay the “investors” but give them a return on investment. The Rockefeller Foundation is one of the investors, and it is working to replicate the British experiment in the United States.

Antony Bugg-Levine, the newly appointed head of the Nonprofit Finance Fund and a former Rockefeller Foundation managing director who oversaw that “investment,” said the experiment could be the harbinger of a new way of deploying philanthropic dollars to address basic needs, pointing to the growing number of foundations and family offices that use grant money to support nonprofits through low-interest loans and bridge financing.

Still other foundations and family offices are experimenting with what is known as mission-related investments, using endowment assets to invest in mainstream companies whose business or business practices in some way produce benefits for society.

Companies, too, are finding ways to reorganize their operations so that they generate social benefits in addition to profits. The Wal-Mart Stores foundation, for instance, recently pledged to spend $100 million over the next five years to support the development of businesses owned by women and buy some $20 billion in merchandise from such enterprises.

“These are much larger pools of money that have traditionally been invested solely to achieve a financial return,” said Mr. Bugg-Levine, co-author of “Impact Investing: Transforming How We Make Money While Making a Difference.”

“If just a fraction of those assets gets invested in this way,” he said, “it can make a significant difference.”

Yet some Wal-Mart employees and others have asked why Wal-Mart did not use that money to support its employees’ health care needs.

David Tovar, a company spokesman, said that Wal-Mart gave away more than $300 million in 2009 and that it addressed at least one basic need with its program to provide fresh foods from its groceries to food banks.

“Linking charitable giving and employee benefits is an apple-to-orange comparison,” Mr. Tovar said. “We spend several billion dollars each year providing comprehensive benefits to more than one million associates and their families.”
75 2011-11-02 As in the cases before Judge Rakoff, the issue before Judge McMahon was whether Mr. Picard, as the trustee for Mr. Madoff’s bankrupt estate, could sue the banks for harm they supposedly caused to Mr. Madoff’s investors, as opposed to harm inflicted on the bankrupt estate.

And like Judge Rakoff, Judge McMahon determined that when Mr. Picard sued third parties for damages, he stood in the shoes of Mr. Madoff, the Ponzi schemer, not in the shoes of Mr. Madoff’s victims. Therefore, he could sue only if the defendants had harmed Mr. Madoff, which they clearly had not done, since their banking services facilitated the flow of cash into his fraud from around the world.

Therefore, only Mr. Madoff’s creditors — his victims — have legal standing to sue the various bank defendants for damages, Judge McMahon said.

Underlying Mr. Picard’s arguments was the question of whether those victims had the practical means or the leeway under bankruptcy law to individually pursue multibillion-dollar claims against a roster of global banks.

The trustee’s lawsuits accused the defendant banks of willfully turning a blind eye to evidence that Mr. Madoff was operating a fraud, thereby allowing his scheme to continue and increasing the financial destruction it caused. Mr. Picard argued in court that federal law gave him the power to pursue those damage claims on behalf of the creditors.

Judge McMahon acknowledged that “allowing the trustee to pursue claims that belong properly to individual creditors would accrue to the benefit of all creditors by augmenting the bankruptcy estate,” the primary source from which Mr. Picard hopes to compensate the cash losers in Mr. Madoff’s scheme.

And she noted that if Mr. Picard were able to collect enough in damages, he could also make payments to those who lost only their paper profits in the scheme, although they would not receive as much as the cash losers.

But those practicalities did not tilt her ruling in favor of Mr. Picard’s legal theory.

“This theory is not supported by the statute’s text and history or by any persuasive case law,” Judge McMahon concluded. She said the points of law put forward by the trustee before her and before Judge Rakoff were “no more persuasive to me than they were to him.”

As a result of her ruling, the trustee’s claims against the two giant banks will be limited to those that fall under the terms of the federal bankruptcy code, which allows Mr. Picard to recover fictional profits withdrawn during a specific period before the collapse of the Madoff fraud in December 2008.

For JPMorgan Chase, according to the trustee’s calculations, those claims are less than $500 million, a fraction of the $19 billion Mr. Picard was seeking. However, he remains free to pursue just over half of the $2 billion he sought from UBS in the bankruptcy court.

In a statement, the trustee’s lawyers said they had appealed Judge Rakoff’s ruling and intended to appeal this latest decision as well. The trustee and his counsel “remain confident in the cases,” the statement continued.
76 2011-11-02 In 1999, Ms. Weiner opened the barn doors to visitors, and she is well known for her programs for “at risk” youth, arranged through local family and children’s services. Here, inner-city gang members, drug addicts and abused youngsters can feed a cow, hug a pig or just try to find peace in a pastoral setting. Before groups meet the animals, Ms. Weiner, or her husband, Jay Weiner, tell their stories of abuse and recovery.

This is critical to reaching troubled children, says Jamie Lynn Cantor, children’s services administrator for the Department of Children and Family Services in northwest Los Angeles County. “They hear the recovery stories of these animals who, after their horrific abuse, have learned to love and trust again. More important, they learn there is hope for the future, and they can have a life filled with love and people to love them. They are not hopeless anymore.” Ms. Cantor has been bringing groups of children in foster care to the Gentle Barn since 2008. She has seen many of them bond with a miniature pony named Bonsai, whose former owner, an alcoholic, beat him brutally.

“I can’t tell you how many kids would identify with this and say, ‘My mom used to do that.’ ” She adds that, though it took three years before Bonsai would trust people again, today he is a playful pony with a particular affinity for children with special needs.

“This is very unlike traditional therapy. There is no probing or rules,” says Ms. Cantor, who recalls a young boy who befriended an enormous pig named Biscuit. “The boy had been sexually abused and was very withdrawn. As soon as he saw this pig, he started to open up a bit. He laid there next to Biscuit for two hours, hugging him and talking to him. This sad little boy experienced some healing and left smiling.”

Ms. Cantor is compiling information for a survey she calls “Healing Youth Through Animals.” So far, she says, the results of one visit to the Gentle Barn “reflect significant improvement in the youth’s happiness, self-esteem, as well as decreases in anger, anxiety, hopelessness, depression and loneliness.”

Dan McCollister is community relations director of Pacific Lodge Youth Services in Woodland Hills, Calif., a nonprofit facility that offers treatment for teenage males on probation. Most residents are gang members “on the cusp of a major life decision,” says Mr. McCollister. “If they don’t change a few key things, they might end up spending their life in jail.”

He adds that because boys join gangs at a young age, his organization faces years of negative conditioning. Twice a month, he brings groups to the Gentle Barn as part of his activities schedule. “We have between six and nine months with them to make something positive click. The Gentle Barn is a great catalyst for that.”

During one visit, there was a “very tough, very hard” gang member who stood silent while hearing the story of a horse that had suffered repeated beatings, says Mr. McCollister. It was later learned that the youth’s arms had been broken repeatedly by his father while growing up. “The young man in question was later spotted in the back of the stable crying and softly petting the horse on the head, saying over and over, ‘No one is going to hurt you now.’ ”

Mr. McCollister emphasizes that a visit to the Gentle Barn “can blow a kid’s mind, show them compassion and empathy and, best of all, let them know that their story isn’t fully written. They can still change and lead a happy, meaningful life.”

According to Mr. Weiner, it takes about $50,000 a month to operate the Gentle Barn. Financing comes from individual donations, through the Web site, private family donations, corporate grants and foundations. Major donors include Ellen DeGeneres, Toyota, CBS, William Morris Endeavor and Princess Cruises.

In addition, the Gentle Barn is developing a reality television show with Ms. DeGeneres. Ms. Weiner says her goal is “to see a Gentle Barn in every major city around the world.” She adds, “I would love to give people a chance to hug a cow, give a pig a tummy rub, snuggle with a turkey and see that we are really all the same. Every day I do this work, I get to witness a miracle.”
77 2011-11-02 “There are a growing number of consumers for whom a new vehicle is becoming a necessity,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with Edmunds.com, an auto research Web site.

Sales of pickup trucks rose about 9 percent in October over the same month year ago, and S.U.V. sales climbed about 8 percent, according to the Autodata Corporation, a research firm.

About 53 percent of all vehicles sold during October were trucks and S.U.V.’s. Auto executives said part of the demand was seasonal, as consumers bought more rugged products in anticipation of winter driving conditions.

But the across-the-board rise in sales also showed that consumers were becoming less fearful of spikes in gas prices, and in many cases were choosing the utility of trucks and S.U.V.’s over the higher fuel economy provided by small cars.

“Historically, we have seen that consumers change their buying habits for three to four months when fuel prices are up,” said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive. “There’s still an awareness of gas prices, but at the end of the day consumers are proving that small cars aren’t for everybody.”

Chrysler reported the biggest gains of the Detroit automakers during the month, with a 27 percent increase over the same period a year ago.

The increase was partly a result of new car models like the Chrysler 200 midsize sedan and the tiny Fiat 500 subcompact. But Chrysler also reported a 21 percent increase in sales of Ram pickups, as well as robust sales for S.U.V.’s ranging from the compact Jeep Compass to the seven-passenger Dodge Durango.

By comparison, sales rose about 6 percent at Ford and 2 percent at G.M. Both companies reported increases in full-size pickup sales, which can be interpreted as a positive sign for the overall economy because those models are frequently purchased by contractors and builders.

Ford also said its S.U.V. sales climbed 38 percent during October from a year ago, led by big increases in purchases of the compact Escape model and the midsize Explorer.

Foreign automakers had mixed results during the month. Volkswagen led with a 40 percent increase, followed by Hyundai with a 23 percent gain and Nissan with an 18 percent improvement. Honda sales were flat, and Toyota said its sales declined nearly 8 percent.

Many Japanese models were in short supply during the summer because of production disruptions related to the earthquake and tsunami in March. Inventory levels have recently improved, and some shoppers who put off purchases are now returning to showrooms, analysts said.

The industry’s positive showing could carry over through the end of the year, particularly as consumers continue to replace older-model vehicles.

“The relatively strong selling rate seen in October suggests that the fourth quarter may close stronger than previously expected,” said Jeff Schuster, head of forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates.

Auto sales have been steadily rising since the spring, despite continued high unemployment and low levels of consumer confidence. Many Americans are now replacing their vehicles.

In 2007, the average age of vehicles nationwide was 9.8 years. But that figure has now climbed to 10.7 years, according to Edmunds.com.

“We’re entering a period now where vehicles need to be replaced because they are just getting too old,” Ms. Lindland said. “Replacement demand will be a key to ending the year on a strong note.”

The industry continues to be a bright spot in an otherwise uncertain economic picture nationally, analysts said. October was the eighth consecutive month in which auto sales topped one million.

“That’s pretty resilient when you consider the onslaught of negative news,” said Peter Nesvold, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. “This is not a $500 iPhone. This is a big-ticket, consumer discretionary purchase.”

While G.M.’s overall sales were somewhat below expectations, October turned out to be the best month yet for the Chevrolet Volt, the company’s plug-in hybrid electric car. G.M. said it sold 1,100 Volts during the month, compared with its chief competition, the all-electric Nissan Leaf, which had 849 sales.
78 2011-11-02 He re-emerged 81 days later, his hefty figure noticeably reduced and his voice uncharacteristically stilled.

As part of the agreement that led to his release on bail, Mr. Ai reportedly agreed to stay off and to reject interviews from the news media. He also was forbidden to leave the capital for a year.

It did not take long, however, for Mr. Ai’s initial reticence to fade. In August, he published a caustic essay in , and his Twitter postings have become increasingly frequent and incendiary.

“In the battle between creating evil laws and creating good laws, speaking out is golden and silence is death,” read one recent item that he forwarded to his 100,000 followers.

Despite his apparent bravado, Mr. Ai is well aware of the difficulties that await him should the government decide to once again curtail his freedom. He has described his detention as “mental torture,” recounting how he was kept in solitary confinement and watched by a pair of soldiers who stood inches from his face as he slept, showered and used the toilet. The lights, he said, were never turned off.

But during the many hours of questioning by domestic security officials, he said, there was never any talk of unpaid taxes.

His interrogators were only interested in his activism, and whether he had played a role in China’s so-called Jasmine Revolution, the name given to the phantom protests, announced by an overseas Web site, that never materialized.

“All they wanted to talk about was state subversion,” he said.

Several of Mr. Ai’s employees and associates were also detained in April, including the accountant and manager who help run Beijing Fake Cultural Development Ltd., the design company that is at the center of the tax charges.

In recent months both men have been incommunicado, he said, effectively hobbling the work of the company’s defense lawyers.

During a tax bureau hearing last July, officials refused to give the company’s lawyer copies of the documents they said backed up their accusations.

The crux of Mr. Ai’s defense rests on a simple legal precept. Although he has been charged with tax evasion, he is not the legal owner of Beijing Fake Cultural Development, which fabricates much of his work. His wife, Lu Qing, is the owner.

Calls to the Beijing tax bureau were not returned Tuesday, but the legal notice delivered to his studio listed Mr. Ai as the “actual controller,” a title he said did not exist. “The police have told me there is no use arguing against the state,” he said. “If you are right, then the state is wrong and this cannot happen.”

Even as he insists the issue is about principles, not money, Mr. Ai says he is unsure how he would come up with the enormous sum. He said his mother had offered to sell the house left to her by his father, a poet revered by the Communist Party.

Asked what he would do if his defense failed and full payment of the taxes and penalties did not satisfy the government, Mr. Ai paused. “This is my fate,” he said weakly, “and I have to face it.”
79 2011-11-02 Even last week doubts grew that the grand European plan would be enough to stop the crisis from spreading to Italy, a much bigger economy that has to refinance billions of euros of debt in the coming year.

Italy has a small budget deficit of about 3 percent of its gross domestic product, which means it has a relatively small amount of net new borrowing to do, although this percentage may be revised upward if growth slows next year as expected.

The much bigger problem is its mountain of existing debt that must be rolled over as it matures — about 52 billion euros this year and 307 billion more next year, according to Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Securities in London.

As Italy’s borrowing costs shoot up — the 10-year government bond yield jumped to a record 6.33 percent on Tuesday — investors are concerned that too much of its strained budget will be consumed by the costs of its enormous debt.

In signs of a reappearance of stress in the European credit markets, the rates that banks charge to lend euros to one another rose, and the costs to banks of swapping euros for dollars in the open foreign exchange market — the three-month euro-dollar cross-currency basis swap — also increased sharply.

The cost of insuring the debt of a basket of European banks against default rose to the highest level since Oct. 5. It now costs $261,000 to insure $10 million of bank debt annually for five years, compared with $207,000 at the end of last week, according to the data provider Markit.

Analysts said European leaders had so far failed to come up with a clear solution to cope with a problem on the scale of Italy’s debt.

Officials had proposed maximizing the European bailout fund, though they did not offer details, and in particular had not defined a role for the European Central Bank, analysts said.

The central bank was buying bonds to support the Italian bond market on a large scale on Tuesday, traders said. But many analysts say it is inevitable that the central bank will have to act much more aggressively, in effect printing money by buying hundreds of billions of euros of bonds from peripheral countries like Italy.

Such an action, however, is politically poisonous in countries like Germany where the public fears inflation. It would be a big test for Mario Draghi, the new president of the European Central Bank, whose first day in office was Tuesday.

“We are going to have an escalation of the crisis until the E.C.B. steps in,” said Holger Schmieding, an economist at Berenberg Bank. “It will have to signal very clearly that it will not let a solvent sovereign go.”

Following the bankruptcy of MF Global, the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday delisted its stock from trading.

Mike Zarembski of OptionsXpress said the bankruptcy of the firm, a large player in the commodities markets, had temporarily reduced volumes in those markets in Chicago and New York. Floor brokers and traders who cleared their trades through MF Global on Monday were barred from the trading floors.

In New York, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 2.79 percent, or 35.02 points, to 1,218.28, and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.48 percent, or nearly 300 points, to 11,657.96. The Nasdaq composite index was down about 2.9 percent at 2,606.96.

In Europe, the sentiment had been even more negative.

The Euro Stoxx 50 index closed down 5.3 percent, the German DAX down 5 percent and the French CAC 40 down 5.4 percent. In Britain, which is not a member of the euro zone but trades heavily with its Continental neighbors, the FTSE 100 index was down 2.2 percent.

As they have repeatedly in recent months, bank stocks led the broader markets sharply lower. Financial stocks fell 4.7 percent in the United States, and nearly twice that in Europe.

The benchmark 10-year United States note yield dipped to 1.97 percent, from 2.12 percent, on Monday.

The euro fluctuated during the day amid uncertainty over how the developments in Greece would affect the latest debt deal. The euro, which started the day at nearly $1.39, declined to $1.36 before rising again to nearly $1.37 in the late afternoon.

“When they called for the referendum, that weighed on the euro,” Eric Viloria, senior market strategist for Forex.com.

“We have already bounced back up because it has been rumored that the referendum is already dead,” he said, referring to news reports that the government might fall.
80 2011-11-02 The chairman of the euro zone finance ministers, Jean-Claude Juncker, warned that the plan to hold a referendum endangered an $11 billion loan that Greece was to receive under the bailout deal, and that Greece urgently needed to avoid a default. Mr. Juncker, who is also the prime minister of Luxembourg, added that Greece could face bankruptcy if it votes “no” on the bailout.

The big fear is that a decisive turn against the bailout package in Greece could undermine European efforts to enforce deep budget cuts in other heavily indebted European countries, especially Italy, which is mired in its own political crisis and has a far larger economy and much more debt than Greece.

Political analysts and several advisers to Mr. Papandreou said the prime minister had decided to announce a popular referendum on Monday night as his last best hope to shore up his eroded political standing. They said he wanted to put Greece’s fate back in the hands of the Greek people and to force his many opponents — both inside his government and in the opposition — to coalesce around the idea that what is at stake is Greece’s membership in the euro.

He wanted Greek voters “to take a position, to see the choice before us in its starkness, hoping they will back the lesser of two evils, instead of letting irate reactions in the streets dominate the debate,” said one adviser to the prime minister.

But on Tuesday, it appeared that his move may have backfired. A lawmaker in his governing coalition left the Socialist Party to become an independent, another said she would not vote confidence in the government unless the prime minister formed a coalition government, and an additional six leading Socialists wrote a letter calling on Mr. Papandreou to resign and schedule early elections for a new government with greater political legitimacy. Together, the developments made it doubtful whether his government would survive a confidence vote, because the loss of even two supporters threatened his parliamentary majority.

Meanwhile, the center-right opposition New Democracy Party on Tuesday stepped up its calls for early elections. Its leader, Antonis Samaras, has opposed most of the austerity measures the government accepted in exchange for foreign financial aid. Mr. Samaras has said that if he were in power, he would try to renegotiate the terms of Greece’s arrangement with its main foreign lenders, known as the troika: the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund.

“Mr. Papandreou, in his effort to save himself, has presented a divisive and extortionate dilemma,” Mr. Samaras said on Tuesday. “New Democracy is determined to avert, at all costs, such reckless adventurism.”

Mr. Samaras declined to say whether he would ask his 85 members of Parliament to resign, a move that would lead to the dissolution of Parliament and a snap election. The next general election was not due until 2013, when the Socialists’ four-year term expires. Mr. Samaras is expected to clarify his stance at a meeting of his party’s parliamentary group on Wednesday.

While the political instability took Europe and markets by surprise, it was less of a shock in Greece. Mr. Papandreou’s political capital had run out and tension has been building for months — not only with the center-right opposition, which objected to many of the terms of the austerity plan, but also within his own party.

That party, known as Pasok, is deeply divided. A more reform-minded wing is upset that Mr. Papandreou has not acted decisively enough to carry out the structural changes needed to revive the economy, while a more traditional wing is opposed to some of the changes that inevitably cut into the heart of the social welfare state the party was elected to promote.

On Tuesday, the two sides appeared to gravitate toward one idea: That the referendum proposed by Mr. Papandreou was a mistake.

“His party just couldn’t hold any more,” said Ilias Nicolacopoulos, a professor of political science at the University of Athens and a pollster with close ties to the Socialist Party.

“He did exactly the opposite of what a large number of his M.P.’s were asking for,” he said. “They were asking for a coalition government or cabinet reshuffle or some sort of cooperation that would bring broader consensus, not a referendum that would put the country in danger of blowing everything up.”

Eva Kaili, a Socialist member of Parliament, said she would not support the government in a confidence vote and called for a government of national unity. She said it was too late for a referendum, because it might destroy the arrangement already reached with Greece’s foreign lenders.

“It took us a long time to manage to reach an agreement,” Ms. Kaili said in a telephone interview. “The time is over. This should have happened one year ago, to ask people if they want the I.M.F. to help us or not.”

If Mr. Papandreou’s government falls, it would not be the first one in Europe to be toppled by the austerity demanded by European debt relief. In Ireland and Portugal, governments fell after accepting bailouts from the European Union and the I.M.F., and last month the Slovakian government fell over a vote on whether to participate in the European Union’s rescue package.

But Greece’s problems are more acute, and its economic slump is much deeper, making the prospect of a government collapse even more worrying. While a new government might try to reopen negotiations with lenders and seek new terms, European leaders have repeatedly dismissed that idea, saying that trying to do so would be damaging and would throw away months of work on a plan to keep Greece from defaulting.

Many Greek voters say they are tired of hearing about decisions taken in foreign capitals and political initiatives that do not represent ordinary Greeks. “The government is no longer in control — others are calling the shots,” said Akis Tsirogiannis, a 42-year-old father who recently lost his job at a furniture workshop in Athens.

He said he would vote against the debt deal in a referendum. “This deal, like all the others, is a life sentence of austerity for Greeks,” he said. “We need to reclaim our country.”
81 2011-11-02 “Calvados” is an astounding 700-page stroll through the history and culture of Normandy and Calvados producers, through orchards and cellars, down to seemingly esoteric details, like what a producer might have scribbled in chalk on a typical barrel.

Mr. Neal looks at the multitude of different apples, from sweet to acidic, that might go into a producer’s blend. Many people will be surprised to learn that pears, too, can be part of the formula, particularly for those brandies with the appellation Calvados Domfrontais, where the rules require at least 30 percent of the fruit to be pears.

In truth, the presence of pears is awfully hard to detect in Calvados. The dozens of pears grown for Calvados Domfrontais are generally too astringent to be eaten, “the pear equivalent of crabapples,” Mr. Neal calls them. I recently had a glass of Lemorton Réserve, an excellent young Calvados from the Domfrontais region that is made predominantly of pears, and, while perhaps a phantom fragrance came through, it still tasted primarily of apples to me.

Beyond Calvados Domfrontais, the appellation system unfortunately tells little about the many regional differences in terroir, though it does say something about production method. The basic appellation “Calvados” indicates the brandy can come from anywhere within the region, and that it need only be distilled once in a column still.

Calvados Pays d’Auge comes from the heart of Calvados country and must be distilled twice in a pot still, like those used for Cognac. It’s a more expensive, labor-intensive process. Even so, those brandies labeled simply Calvados are not necessarily inferior. Michel Huard, a small producer, for example, makes wonderful, complex Calvados. Still, nuances of terroir are hard to detect from the label. Occasionally, a label reveals whether a Calvados is from Mortainais or Cotentin, but not often.

Calvados, like Cognac, is dominated by big producers, like Boulard and Busnel. Sometimes they can make good brandies. Boulard’s Calvados Pays d’Auge X.O., a $90 bottle, is fresh, mellow and elegant, but leans toward Cognac in emphasizing sweet vanilla, toffee and barrel characteristics over apple. Sometimes, a Calvados from one of the big assembly-line producers can taste manipulated, thickened with sugar syrup, for example, which is legal, as is the addition of caramel and the use of wood chips.

Among the large houses are more focused producers like Christian Drouin or Roger Groult, kind of Billecart-Salmon to Boulard’s Veuve Clicquot, to put it in Champagne terms. Drouin’s Calvados are always excellent, even inexpensive bottles like the Pays d’Auge Sélection for $25, and I recently had an unusual, almost butterscotch-flavored Réserve Pays d’Auge from Groult for $38.

Most interesting to me are the Calvados made by farmers who grow their own fruit, like grower-producers in Champagne. Where the bigger houses strive for consistency, these small-production Calvados are often strikingly distinctive. I can’t think of a young Calvados I’ve enjoyed more than the Pays d’Auge Réserve from Domaine de Montreuil, a $45 bottle in which the fresh, ripe, juicy apples, with a little mint and cinnamon for complexity, fairly leaped from the glass. It was a tad fiery and raw, but I didn’t mind.

Sadly, small-production Calvados are hard to find. Mr. Neal imports several, including Domaine de Montreuil, Lemorton and Adrien Camut. Extensive Calvados selections can also be found in New York at the Barclay Bar at the InterContinental Hotel on the East Side and at the Brandy Library in TriBeCa.

Consumption of brandy in the United States has gone up in the last 20 years, partly, at least, because of the rising interest in cocktails. Barclay Bar, for one, emphasizes Calvados cocktails. For me, though, nothing beats the gorgeous, clear evocation of apples in a glass of good, unadorned young Calvados on a crisp fall day.
82 2011-11-02 Pfizer, the world's largest drug company, surprised Wall Street in a good way Tuesday with higher-than-expected quarterly sales and an aggressive plan to respond to looming generic competition to Lipitor, the top-selling drug in the world.     Pfi...
83 2011-11-02 When Jon S. Corzine joined MF Global last year it seemed like a strange choice - the firm had none of the glamour, let alone the profits or footprint of Goldman Sachs, the bank he ran during the 1990s.     On Wall Street, it was as if a manager of...
84 2011-11-02 6:28 p.m. | Updated      LONDON - Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank after UBS, said on Tuesday that its third-quarter profit rose 12 percent, to 683 million Swiss francs, even as the bank announced a further 1,500 job cuts as a result o...
85 2011-11-02 Some women who drink to their health may want to reconsider. A new study shows that women who routinely have even small amounts of alcohol, as few as three drinks a week, have an elevated risk of breast cancer.     The research, which looked at th...
86 2011-11-02 A recipe for lamb necks braised in wine with peppers....
87 2011-11-03 The police said the protesters apparently held a mock trial of Goldman Sachs, a main target of the Occupy Wall Street movement, at their encampment in Zuccotti Park before setting out for the building to deliver their verdict....
88 2011-11-03 The police said the protesters apparently held a mock trial of Goldman Sachs, a main target of the Occupy Wall Street movement, at their encampment in Zuccotti Park before setting out for the building to deliver their verdict....
89 2011-11-03 A menu of strategies and wish lists for Sarah Palin, Chris Christie or Tim Pawlenty, if any of them decide to run after all....
90 2011-11-03 A menu of strategies and wish lists for Sarah Palin, Chris Christie or Tim Pawlenty, if any of them decide to run after all....
91 2011-11-03 Democrats are beginning a new push against Mitt Romney, using the issue of reproductive rights in a bid to raise doubts about him among women....
92 2011-11-03 Democrats are beginning a new push against Mitt Romney, using the issue of reproductive rights in a bid to raise doubts about him among women....
93 2011-11-03 Officials at the Specialty Equipment Market Association event in Las Vegas named their best-in-show picks....
94 2011-11-03 Officials at the Specialty Equipment Market Association event in Las Vegas named their best-in-show picks....
95 2011-11-03 Silver Lining, which helps small businesses with their finances, has been struggling with its own finances....
96 2011-11-03 Which charities and causes should foundations and families give their money to?...
97 2011-11-03 Which charities and causes should foundations and families give their money to?...
98 2011-11-03 Chicago Cubs Manager Mike Quade was fired Wednesday in the first major move by Theo Epstein since becoming the team’s president for baseball operations. Epstein, who was introduced in his new position last week, said Quade would not return after traveling to Florida to tell him in person. Quade got the job after a 37-game audition at the end of the 2010 season, replacing Lou Piniella. The Cubs stumbled through another disappointing year in 2011, finishing fifth in the National League Central at 71-91.

Epstein, who joined the Cubs a little more than a week ago, quickly laid out the qualifications he has in mind for the team’s next manager. One of those is managerial and/or coaching experience in the major leagues, which would eliminate a popular fan choice in the Cubs Hall of Famer Ryne Sandberg.
99 2011-11-03 Congress rarely remembers that it is responsible for overseeing the Federal Election Commission — the party-hack-ridden agency that enables campaign abuses. The House elections subcommittee has now summoned commission members to a rare hearing on Thursday about its work. Rather than a severe grilling, it’s more likely to be a meet-and-greet smile among professional backslappers.

The need for a vigilant F.E.C. has never been greater as the nation enters the most money-drenched campaign in history, thanks to the new “super PAC” bundlers and the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision blessing unlimited corporate donations. While all this looms, the six-member F.E.C. has been stymied by its three Republican appointees who apparently believe the best campaign regulation is none and regularly reject professional staff findings of campaign abuses and block enforcement.

Politicians know a toothless watchdog when they see one. In the latest outrage, Senator Mike Lee, a Republican of Utah, asked the F.E.C. for an advisory opinion on whether he can raise unlimited funds for his own leadership political action committee. This is clearly barred by law. It would ensconce moneyed princes on Capitol Hill to buy lawmakers’ favors from within. Surely the F.E.C. can muster the courage to shoot that down. Surely?

Congress should be reforming the agency, and President Obama should be challenging Congress to do it. The F.E.C. needs commissioners who don’t owe their positions to either party machine. The president can drive the issue by proposing truly independent appointees to the Senate to replace lame-duck members.
100 2011-11-03 If the state enacts legislation proposed by State Senator Daniel L. Squadron and Assemblywoman Joan L. Millman to authorize the city to create residential permits, the City Council, together with the Transportation Department and community boards, would decide how to introduce the permits, neighborhood by neighborhood.

While the two most pressing areas mentioned Wednesday were those around the Barclay Center and Yankee Stadium, neighborhoods like Brooklyn Heights and Flushing, Queens, have also been clamoring for relief.

“The communities in and around Downtown Brooklyn get a lot of people who drive in and take mass transit the rest of the way,” said Michael Cairl, the president of the Park Slope Civic Council. His group hopes a permit plan would discourage the practice.

The plan has its detractors, though, and the city’s Transportation Department expressed concern. David Woloch, a deputy commissioner, said the permits would require enforcement by an already stretched Police Department. Cities that have such programs, like Toronto and Boston, are less congested than New York, he said.

The department has undertaken a feasibility study around the Barclays Center and Yankee Stadium, and Mr. Woloch said that even if the program was adopted, “there would be no guarantee that residents would find a parking space in their neighborhood.”

Councilman Lewis A. Fidler of Brooklyn cast the only dissenting vote, describing the permits as a slippery slope toward forcing drivers in every neighborhood in the city to pay for parking.

Still, the cost of a residential permit in other cities is hardly exorbitant: $35 a year in Washington, free in Boston.

The final environmental impact study by the Empire State Development Corporation for the Atlantic Yards project estimated an influx of about 2,500 cars on event nights and indicated that up to 3,000 on-street parking spaces would be necessary.

Several traffic consultants considered those estimates too conservative. Brian Ketcham, a retired traffic engineer who created models that showed that the Atlantic Yards arena would worsen the gridlock, worried that a residential permit plan could make traffic worse by taking away spots for people going to the arena and by inspiring local residents to buy cars.

“There will be less parking for merchants,” he said.

Residents around Yankee Stadium have already felt the loss of street parking and seen the increased cruising from fans hoping to avoid paying for parking garages, Councilwoman Helen D. Foster of the Bronx, chairwoman of the committee, said.

She ended the hearing with a warning to Brooklyn residents. “What happened in the Bronx,” she said, “is coming to you now.”
101 2011-11-03 Clorox, which increased prices to make up for its own higher costs for materials and manufacturing, said Wednesday the move helped its revenue rise 3 percent to $1.31 billion, beating analysts’ expectations. Sales volume increased 2 percent as customers continued to buy products despite the higher prices.

The company still expects revenue to increase 1 to 3 percent this fiscal year. But executives cautioned that many price increases took effect in August, and would cause flat sales volume for the year.

In August, Clorox raised prices on several brands. That included a 7 percent increase on Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing, a 3 percent increase on Brita pitchers, and a 12 percent increase on Clorox liquid bleach.

Clorox is introducing new, higher-margin products and is taking other steps to bolster revenue. Clorox wants to expand in emerging markets to make up for weak consumer spending at home. International revenue made up about 22 percent of Clorox’s total revenue this quarter.

Executives said higher costs for materials and manufacturing would continue to be a challenge. Those costs pushed down the gross margin, which measures profitability as the percent of revenue left over after the company pays its costs, to 41.8 percent from 44.3 percent in the quarter. Though revenue rose 3 percent, the cost of making those products rose nearly 8 percent.

Clorox’s net income plummeted nearly 40 percent in the quarter. That decline was largely because the company benefited in the year-ago period from selling its auto care business. Excluding that gain, net income fell 7 percent in the quarter.
102 2011-11-03 China spent two years clearing up a similar mess in the 1990s. But it will be harder this time.

Chinese companies have been able to keep the cycle going by borrowing from banks, and from shadowy lenders outside the banking system, to support their lending to customers.

Besides, the system is far bigger than it was then. With the balance of total bank loans 33 times as big as 20 years ago, the potential damage from all those debt triangles will be bigger too.

American corporations have some $1.4 trillion stashed offshore. Lawmakers are looking at ways to help them return this cash at sharply lower tax rates than would usually apply to foster employment, economic growth and government revenue.

Those goals seem ambitious, based on the last time a tax holiday was tried in 2004. Another snag exists: much of the money is invested in Treasuries. The side effects of companies dumping all that paper need to be factored into the equation.

Most of the overseas money is on the balance sheets of blue-chip pharmaceutical, technology and consumer goods companies with significant foreign sales and profits.

They include Pfizer, Microsoft, Cisco Systems and Procter & Gamble. Bringing the money home would mean paying taxes, so companies are hoping for a break from the current 35 percent top rate.

Microsoft, for example, has $56 billion of cash on its books, $51 billion of which is outside the United States and almost entirely invested in Treasuries.

Securities filings suggest this is typical of multinationals. Investing in United States government bonds mitigates currency fluctuations, carries very little risk and keeps holdings liquid.

In total, at least $1.4 trillion of United States companies’ cash is held overseas, JPMorgan estimates.

Not all would be repatriated, and not all is held in Treasuries. But if even three-quarters of the total is invested in United States government debt, that would amount to $1 trillion — more than Japan’s holding of Treasuries, and almost as much as China’s.

Uncle Sam’s borrowing binge has revealed the market’s capacity to lend. And yields at or near historic lows suggest investors everywhere are willing to buy Treasuries, one of the few virtually risk-free assets in a risky world.

Yet given the scale of corporate holdings, any tax holiday that encourages repatriation of corporate cash could still lead to sales of Treasuries significant enough to move the market.

At a minimum, Washington would probably need to pay a little more interest to attract lenders. Related borrowing costs for everything, including mortgages and corporate loans, would be dragged up as well. Many investors wouldn’t consider that much of a holiday.
103 2011-11-03 On Tuesday night at City Center the Fall for Dance Festival offered its third program, a mixed bag of ballet, tap, contemporary European dance — the generic variety — and, most mercifully, the Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin. He defies categorization. The sight of Hubbard Street Dance Chicago performing Mr. Naharin’s “Three to Max” gave the evening a welcome lift.

But before that could happen, the Australian Ballet, appearing with four eloquent dancers, looked to its past in Glen Tetley’s “Gemini,” created for the company in 1973. Set to music by Hans Werner Henze, the ballet began with Lana Jones — such aplomb! — center stage. Wearing a pale yellow unitard and point shoes, she guided her body through a sequence of static positions, creating an oddly mesmerizing movement meditation. There were no dull edges: her legs, in grand battements, sliced the air like blades.

It’s not that the other dancers — Amber Scott, Adam Bull and Rudy Hawkes — were inferior. But once they joined Ms. Jones — and as one grand jeté or arabesque penchée faded into the next —  the ballet’s importance became increasingly questionable. Choppy duets, more awkward than austere, held little magic beyond the sight of beautiful bodies at work.

Steven McRae, a principal dancer with the Royal Ballet, presented “Something Different,” an unlikely but not unhappy union of tap and ballet. (In Christopher Wheeldon’s recent “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” he played a tap-dancing Mad Hatter.) For “Something Different,” Mr. McRae started out slowly, with a self-conscious display of ball-and-heel taps, before the spotlight pulled back to reveal the entire stage. Benny Goodman’s rendition of “Sing, Sing, Sing (With a Swing)” filled the theater, and Mr. McRae answered with hops onto his toes and whiplash turns: a true crowd pleaser.

In “Faune,” by the Swedish choreographer Pontus Lidberg, five dancers wearing Karen Young’s nondescript pants and shirts took turns peeling off their clothes to see what was underneath. Who was the faun? Even with dancers like Craig Hall and Adrian Danchig-Waring of New York City Ballet, the tepid work was hardly an improvement over the Nijinsky-Debussy ballet; it contained more atmosphere than invention. The creature was finally revealed to be Mr. Lidberg. His tights were covered with spots, and the theme of the dance, finding acceptance within a group, was just as obvious.

“Three to Max” lifted the cobwebs: it was like entering a beautiful world where little makes sense, but in the most pleasurable way. Mr. Naharin revisited sections from two of his older productions, “Three” and “Max,” to create an original dance with used parts; the dancers of Hubbard Street — 17 in all — responded with care and nerve.
104 2011-11-03 The discount retailer Syms and its subsidiary Filene’s Basement have filed for bankruptcy protection and plan to close all 46 of their stores.

Syms acquired Filene’s Basement, also a discount retailer, out of bankruptcy protection in the spring of 2009 for $62.4 million, but it struggled to turn the retailer around. This is the third bankruptcy protection involving the Filene’s Basement chain.

Syms and Filene’s Basement stores are mostly in the Eastern United States and employ about 2,450 people, Syms said. The company struggled to stay afloat amid tough competition and consumers who have slowed their spending.

Marcy Syms, the company’s chief executive, said in statement that the two discount chains were burdened by increasing competition from department stores offering the same brands at similar discounts and by a rising number of private label discounters. She also said there was less overstock for her company to buy as businesses managed their inventory carefully because of the sluggish economy.

Ms. Syms said the bankruptcy filings capped “a process that has taken place for several months.”

The company, based in Secaucus, N.J., announced in May that it was exploring strategic options, including a potential sale.

Sy Syms started the company in 1959, buying excess merchandise directly from manufacturers at a discount.

Filene’s Basement was started in 1909 in Boston by William Filene, initially as a place for the Filene’s department store to sell excess merchandise.
105 2011-11-03 Wing, 20, from Melbourne, is a former junior player in Australian rules football, who achieved a small bit of college football notoriety this season when, in a 41-11 victory over Florida on Oct. 8, he became the first player to have a touchdown called back because of the N.C.A.A.’s new rule regarding excessive celebration.

He is a 6-foot-3, 185-pound redshirt freshman whose long, controlled, end-over-end kicks — known as drop punts in Australian football — have helped limit opponents to seven total return yards this season.

“Him kicking that ball in the air so long really helps us a lot,” defensive tackle Michael Brockers said. “We get pumped up about it because he gives us very good field position. When they’re starting at the 10 and the 5, and stuff like that, we know just to attack and they won’t go 99 yards on us.”

Jesse Williams, 21, Aboriginal on his mother’s side, was born on Thursday Island, off the northern tip of Australia, and raised in Brisbane. A 6-4, 330-pound junior who played basketball and rugby before taking up football five years ago, he was discovered during that training session for the Australian junior team by Jerry Dominguez, a defensive coordinator for Arizona Western, a junior college.

Two years ago, when Williams told his parents he was going to cross the Pacific to play in the United States, his father, Arthur, wrote him a farewell note:

Put down his spear and hung up his shield

and became a warrior on the football field.

Williams now carries those lines on his upper left arm, part of a graffiti wall of tattoos that extend from the base of his throat to his chest, arms, legs and hand. From his distinctive appearance to his unusual birthplace to his status as a starting lineman for one of the country’s best defenses, Williams stands out on campus.

“It’s a double whammy for anyone,” Williams said in a phone interview. “People recognize you for playing football. Being Australian doesn’t make it easy to blend in, and I have to get used to it here. I’m all for representing Australia, and Aboriginals and myself. I don’t want to be a superstar or be in the limelight. I prefer to do my own thing and be under the radar.”

Wing came to the United States on a whim, reacting to Tiede’s suggestion that he attend high school in Baton Rouge as an exchange student. Eager for an authentic American experience, he joined the football team and after launching punts of 60 and 70 yards in his first two games, Alabama called the family he was staying with to express interest. Wing never called back.

“Even when L.S.U. came courting, he didn’t know what a big deal it was,” David Wing said. “He knows now.” Somewhat. Wing recently asked reporters if he should know who Bear Bryant was.

Williams, in contrast, kept track of his scholarship offers on a dry-erase board in his dorm room at Arizona Western, though his knowledge of the programs that contacted him was not exactly superior to Wing’s.

“He had so many offers,” Andrew Power, his teammate at Arizona Western, said. “Every time someone called he would write on the board. All he knew was what I was telling him and what he could find on the Internet.”

The Arizona Western assistant coach Michael Orthmann remembered Williams “filling the doorway” to his office when he first met him. He also remembered him as fast and nimble on the field. Williams had originally planned to attend Hawaii, but that fell through because of eligibility issues that stemmed from his high school grades in Australia and how they conformed to N.C.A.A. standards.

He arrived at Yuma in July 2009, when the average temperature ran to 106 degrees.

“I think the heat might have been a bit of a shock to him,” Orthmann said.

The campus was five miles out of town. Williams came without a driver’s license, knowing no one. He found a driver and friend in Power, a tight end who now plays at North Texas.

“I guess you could say we had a lot of days where we were real bored and we just tried to find something to do,” Power said. That gave Williams more time to devote to football; he could often be seen on the field alone or with teammates performing extra drills during spring practice.

“I don’t think I ever adjusted, I just tolerated it,” Williams said of his time in Yuma. “It was pretty tough. I pushed myself and hoped for the best outcome and kept everything positive.”

Wing’s route to L.S.U. was also serendipitous.

In 1988, David Wing’s semi-professional Australian football career had ended because of injury, and he was on a 12-month working vacation with friends when he met Winston D’Armond, an L.S.U. fan from Baton Rouge. The two became friendly and D’Armond invited Wing to Baton Rouge for a visit.

Wing met Tiede, who was married to D’Armond’s niece, on that visit and the two began to arrange N.F.L. tryouts as a punter. Their friendship continued beyond Wing’s playing career, and in 2008 Tiede invited the Wing family to Baton Rouge for Christmas. Brad was reluctant to go, wanting to stay home with his girlfriend instead. His father’s insistence prevailed, and Brad’s connection to Louisiana began.

He has had some troubles this year. In June, he was issued a misdemeanor summons for simple battery in Baton Rouge, though he was not charged. On the field, his most infamous moment came against Florida. David Wing experienced it all over a cellphone.

“My mate was in Tiger Stadium,” David Wing said of the call that came at 6:30 a.m. on a Sunday in Melbourne. “There were 92,000 people in the background screaming.”

With a signal to his blocker, Brad decided to run instead of punt. Twenty yards before the end zone, he briefly spread his arms wide in celebration. That earned him a flag and the touchdown was called back.

“Brad was just coming for the American experience, that whole thing,” his father said. “It went from the American experience to pretty ridiculous in a hurry.”
106 2011-11-03 The proposal to close the courts to victims of discrimination as a way to further civil rights is music to the ears of corporations. They hate being hauled before juries of their victims’ peers.

The proposal is also illogical. If civil rights laws have not been thoroughly enforced by the conservative federal judiciary, why would the executive branch, which is even more political and dependent on corporate donations, enforce our laws more proactively and vigorously?

It is also untrue that employers’ behavior does not change in response to successful verdicts. The evidence is overwhelming, for example, that wage and hour laws are much more likely to be followed since the successful wage and hour litigations of the last decade.

The proposal to close the courts to victims of discrimination is not at all novel or forward-looking. It is corporate nirvana and it has always been so.

The writer is an employment lawyer.

Richard Thompson Ford is right to say civil rights litigation should not be relied on as the sole agent of change, particularly given the makeup of the courts. But he is wrong to suggest that we abandon litigation in favor of regulation or other “comprehensive solutions.”

He writes that police departments have “agreed” to collect stop-and-frisk data, yet the New York Police Department makes this information public only as a result of litigation by the organization I head, the Center for Constitutional Rights, and the New York Civil Liberties Union. The far-reaching solutions he calls for are often achieved as a result of consent decrees or settlements.

And to see how the threat of fines clearly does not work, one need only look at how police departments treat the rights of protesters, essentially factoring in settlements for wrongful arrest as part of the cost of doing business.

To achieve civil rights goals, we do indeed need to look to new solutions, but it borders on the naïve to think that governments and police departments don’t still require more stick than carrot to get there.

Richard Thompson Ford is correct that real progress in combating discrimination requires comprehensive reforms and identifiable goals, yet it is wrong to suppose that this is “beyond” civil rights. Rather, his proposals echo the goals and timetables, and the affirmative action, that formed the heart of civil rights and made a dent in exclusion through the mid-1970s.

Today’s narrow focus on isolated victims, rightly decried by Mr. Ford, does not reflect a failure of vision by civil rights leaders. Instead, it stems from four decades of efforts by conservative judges and justices (reflecting the preferences of the politicians who appointed them) to restrictively construe civil rights laws to ensure that they challenge discrimination barely at all.

The writer is a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley.
107 2011-11-03 Credit: Marco Ricca for The New York Times
108 2011-11-03 “I speak Thaddeus fluently,” Mr. Wildin said. For those unfamiliar with Mr. Briner and his philosophy of design, a single line from the Architecture Outfit Web site says it all: “Simple is usually better.”

The renovation, which cost $800,000, took 15 months and was completed in March .

One bedroom was removed to open up the living and dining area (there are now two bedrooms). Soundproofing was installed in the wall adjoining the building’s communal hallway and in the ceiling, where a series of rectangular gypsum board “clouds” conceal recessed lighting and indirect fluorescent tubes along the edges of the apartment.

A row of cast-iron columns that was featured prominently in Mr. Bratt’s home has disappeared into new bathrooms and closets, but the design preserved the whitewashed brick.

“To me, it’s very Mercer Hotel lobby-looking,” Mr. Wildin said.

Mr. Crumpacker insists that their intention was not to create a “luxury Chipotle,” but colleagues have noticed connections, most notably the large walnut-clad volume that sits off-center in the space, stopping just short of the ceiling. It bears an uncanny resemblance to the free-standing plywood forms Mr. Briner designed to contain restrooms and drinks stations at the restaurants.

This volume, however, holds a laundry room, a guest bath, a home office alcove, a pantry and plenty of storage.

The design devotes so much space to storage, in fact, that some closets are still nearly empty. “We’re organized down to the built-in doggy crate,” Mr. Wildin said.

On a recent Sunday, he stood at the kitchen island, which functions as something of a command center for the apartment.

“I live at the counter,” Mr. Wildin said, “chopping and answering e-mail.” A small hole in the statuary marble surface allows him to plug in an iPad, he said, from which he can adjust the room’s lighting and the window shades.

Pivoting, tongs in hand, he pressed hanger steaks marinated in chili-and-fish sauce into the Gaggenau Vario teppanyaki grill behind him.

“Mark, can you get a silver presentation plate, like your Nambe?” he asked.

Then he filled it and placed it in front of guests seated around the enormous Saarinen pedestal table in the dining room.
109 2011-11-03 GrassSit offers a fresh spin on the classic barstool. The stainless steel base is topped with ersatz grass recycled from local school football fields — sometimes complete with a yard line.

Originally created for the Rockenwagner Soufflé Bakery, in Santa Monica, Calif., by the design firm Minarc, the stools will soon be available individually.

“Football fields use approximately 80,000 square feet of carpet material, which is replaced every five to seven years,” said Tryggvi Thorsteinsson, the Icelandic native who owns Minarc with his wife, Erla Dogg Ingjaldsdottir, explaining where the idea came from.

Their intention, Ms. Ingjaldsdottir added, was “to raise awareness of landfill mass.”

The GrassSit is about $680; information: (310) 998-8899 or minarc.com.
110 2011-11-03 “Turning movies into musicals hasn’t been a sure thing lately, that’s for sure,” said Robyn Goodman, a Tony-winning producer. “I’m developing a few new musicals right now, and a lot of the work is putting an idea and a team together and hoping for a little fairy dust. It’s dumb to race through the development process and to Broadway.”

To that end executives from Disney Theatrical Productions have been carefully assessing a New York run for “Newsies,” which received strong reviews this fall at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. Even six weeks ago Broadway was not the destination for “Newsies” — it was adapted from the 1992 Disney film to license to regional theaters — but the audience and critical reaction led to a new strategy.

People familiar with Disney’s planning said that the company’s theatrical arm was considering a limited run on Broadway, perhaps from spring through Labor Day, which would require less money up front than a typical Disney rollout in New York. While the company’s “Lion King” is still one of Broadway’s biggest hits, executives there are also cautious in light of two recent disappointments, “The Little Mermaid” and “Tarzan.”

Thomas Schumacher, the president of Disney Theatrical, said he was exploring all options about mounting “Newsies” in New York. “It’s only natural that we want to try to bring this show to Broadway now, when its message is so timely,” Mr. Schumacher said of “Newsies,” which echoes the Occupy Wall Street movement in its portrayal of newsboys on strike against a newspaper magnate, based on events in 1899.

Another candidate that may move quickly to Broadway in the spring, “Once,” is to begin performances Off Broadway at New York Theater Workshop on Nov 15. Its commercial producers declined an interview request, but people familiar with the planning said that the producers were now talking to theater owners about options for a Broadway house.

Which aren’t many. The three main Broadway landlords — the Shubert Organization, the Nederlander Organization, and Jujamcyn Theaters — say they have more shows seeking theaters than they do available houses, the result of several shows enjoying long runs on Broadway and an onslaught of new productions in the works.

That crunch has led to heartburn for some producers, including those behind “Nice Work If You Can Get It,” who announced in June that they would open on Broadway next spring. “Nice Work” had been eyeing the Imperial Theater (which went to “Funny Girl”) and the Palace Theater, where “Priscilla Queen of the Desert” has had improving ticket sales recently.

While a small-scale show like “Once” could run in a house of 1,000 seats or less, “Nice Work” is aiming for a larger house, leaving only a few possible theaters with shows that might close this winter, like “Sister Act” at the Broadway Theater.

Roger Berlind and Scott Landis, two of the lead producers of “Nice Work,” said in an interview that they would never hope for failure for fellow producers. Still Mr. Berlind was blunt about the fate of their musical, which in most seasons would sail easily into a Broadway berth given the marquee names attached: the actors Matthew Broderick and Kelli O’Hara and the director Kathleen Marshall.

“We’re all set to go, and we’re in need of a theater, but we don’t have a theater yet,” Mr. Berlind said.

At least one musical that was announced for this season, an adaption of the 2003 film “Big Fish,” has fallen off the schedule. Executives involved with that production cited scheduling conflicts of the creative team, as well as their desire to work around the schedule of the star they hope to cast, Michael C. Hall of the Showtime series “Dexter.” The executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity because an official announcement has yet to be made, said they are now aiming “Big Fish” for Broadway in spring 2013.

Another new show, the musical version of Daphne du Maurier’s “Rebecca,” with Sierra Boggess (“The Little Mermaid”) in the lead, has been rumored to be iffy for the spring because of the challenge of raising the show’s estimated $13 million capitalization. But on Wednesday the producers said that they would open this spring at the Broadhurst, and that that the theater’s owner, the powerful Shubert Organization, had signed on as a producer — a vote of confidence in what would probably be the most expensive new show of the season.

Among many theater executives, however, enthusiasm for the lineup of new musicals is weak. In a survey of 10 Tony voters over the last week, for instance, no consensus emerged about an early front-runner for the best musical award. And theatergoers who buy tickets through group sales agents are so far unexcited, said Stephanie Lee, the president of Group Sales Box Office.

“Some of them have been saying they really hope other shows will come in this season,” said Ms. Lee, who added that of the new musicals announced for this season, “Ghost” and “Bonnie and Clyde” had been selling the best.

“Spider-Man” also continues to be a strong seller, Ms. Lee said.

“Spider-Man” executives, in turn, said they were pleased with the attention — and hopeful that their show could yield some surprises at the Tony ceremony in June.

“Everyone at ‘Spider-Man’ is delighted by the feedback from Tony voters who have seen the show of late,” said Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for the musical. “We’re hoping for an exciting spring.”
111 2011-11-03 JERUSALEM — Israel tested what experts said was a long-range ballistic missile on Wednesday morning, firing it out to sea from an Air Force base just south of Tel Aviv and causing jittery Israelis who saw the launch on their way to work to jam emergency lines.

The test came after nearly a week of feverish reports and speculation in the Israeli news media about whether the country’s prime minister and defense minister have already decided to attack Iran’s nuclear complexes. Israel views a nuclear Iran as a potentially existential threat and officials here are eagerly awaiting an International Atomic Energy Agency report scheduled to be released on Tuesday that they say will likely address Iran’s military nuclear weapons program.

The Ministry of Defense would not specify what kind of missile was being tested. It issued a laconic statement saying only that Israel had test fired a rocket propulsion system, and that the test had been planned “a long time ago and was carried out as scheduled.”

Defense Minister Ehud Barak congratulated the Israeli security establishment and military industries for what he called “an impressive technological achievement and an important step in Israel’s advancement in the field of missiles and space.”

Yiftah Shapir, an expert in non-conventional weapons at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University, said he believed that Israel had most probably test-fired a new satellite launcher, which would basically employ the same technology as a ballistic missile with a range of thousands of miles.
112 2011-11-03 The girl’s mother, Jeok Kimsan, said the family’s savings were wiped out by the floods. “We will go to the hospital when we get some money,” she said, as her husband built a fish trap.

Flood victims, many of whom begged a foreign visitor for help, took shelter here under plastic sheeting, like refugees from a civil war. Cows, pigs and chickens shared the strip of dry land, which was covered with animal and human waste.

“The toilet is everywhere,” said Henry Y. Sophorn, a Cambodian-born American who represents a nonprofit group, Disadvantaged Cambodians Organization, which is part of a syndicate delivering aid to flood victims.

In Thailand, the government has used helicopters, military vehicles and an array of equipment to reach and assist flood victims, but in Cambodia the work of providing basic necessities has been largely left to private organizations.

“The government can only help a small number of people — they don’t have the capacity,” said Mr. Sophorn, whose organization has supplied 3,400 families with medical care, rice, instant noodles, canned fish and bottled water, using money from a donor in Hong Kong who has asked to remain anonymous.

With little or no government assistance, many villagers have been left to fend for themselves.

“The big impact is just starting,” said Sen Jeunsafy, a spokeswoman in Cambodia for Save the Children, an international aid organization. “What we have done is provided immediate relief. But collectively, we have not been able to reach every family.”

Aid workers say the full scope of the flood crisis in Cambodia is not yet known, because many affected areas are remote and out of communication. In all, the United Nations estimates that 1.2 million people out of a population of about 15 million may have been affected.

Rice farmers and fishermen in Cambodia have long abided by the rhythm of the monsoon and dry seasons, which causes the country’s largest freshwater lake, Tonle Sap, to swell and contract. But this year, relentless rains brought flooding to the highest levels in living memory, said Ngin Vath, a 50-year-old fisherman. “Normally at this time of year everything is dry.”

Villagers say the water has finally started to recede. Where only treetops were visible, the tips of ruined rice stalks now peek above the surface. But the floodwaters remain dangerous: two children drowned last week, Mr. Vath said.

With rice crops ruined and houses destroyed, reconstruction will be difficult, Ms. Jeunsafy said. “People will face many problems just trying to survive.”
113 2011-11-03 The developments added to disquiet over how information related to the disaster has been handled. For almost two months after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out vital cooling systems, setting the stage for disaster, both company and government officials declared it was unlikely that any meltdowns had occurred. They finally conceded that melted fuel had likely breached containments in three reactors, and that it was likely pooled at the bottom of the vessels.

A 12-mile exclusion zone is still in effect around the plant. More than 80,000 households were displaced.

On Wednesday, Tokyo Electric said that the amount of xenon detected was small, and there was no rise in temperature, pressure or radiation levels at the reactor. Researchers were double-checking the data to make sure there were no errors, the company said. Experts concurred that it was possible that Tokyo Electric had made a simple error in its measurements.

But the urgent injection of boric acid underscored that the company was operating on the assumption that the measurements were valid. A naturally occurring element, boron, soaks up the neutrons released when an atom is split so that those neutrons cannot go on to split other atoms when material “goes critical” in the process of fission. Nuclear power plants harness the energy released in the form of heat to produce electricity.

It is impossible to determine exactly what state the fuel is in, given that even an intact reactor can offer only gauges for temperature, pressure and neutron flow, not visual observation. That lack of clarity is one of the most resonant lessons of the Fukushima disaster, when those trying to guide the response and assess the danger had to operate by what amounted to educated guesswork.

In reactors of the design used at Fukushima, the nuclear chain reaction is normally stopped when the operator gives a command to insert control rods, which rise up from the bottom of the core and separate the fuel assemblies. But the fuel in the cores of the three reactors is presumably a haphazard mass, without a strict gridlike geometry, so control rods cannot be inserted. Further, some experts believe some of the fuel has escaped the vessels and is in spaces underneath.

The jumble of material and conditions in the damaged reactors seem very unlikely to be able to produce sustained fission, but some experts have long suspected intermittent criticalities. In other accidents, nuclear material has burst into fission, but the released energy then rearranges the damaged fuel into a configuration that no longer support fission. Gradually, the material re-forms in a way to support another burst.

On Wednesday, Junichi Matsumoto, a Tokyo Electric spokesman, acknowledged episodes of fission, saying at a news conference: “There is a possibility that certain conditions came together temporarily that were conducive to re-criticality,” and that the measurements indicated a burst that occurred at a slightly higher rate than prior cases.

“It’s not that we’ve had zero fission until now,” Mr. Matsumoto said. “But at this point, we do not think there is a large-scale and self-sustained re-criticality.”

Mr. Matsumoto said detailed measurements had not yet been taken at the two other severely damaged reactors on the Fukushima site, but acknowledged the possibility of episodes of fission there, too. The three reactors — and spent fuel rods stored at a fourth damaged reactor — have been leaking radioactive material since the initial disaster. New episodes of fission would only increase their dangers.

“Re-criticality would produce more harmful radioactive material, and because the reactors are damaged, there would be a danger of a leak,” said Hiroaki Koide, assistant professor at Kyoto University’s Research Reactor Institute, whose prescient warnings about nuclear safety have won him respect in Japan.

Mr. Koide holds that the nuclear fuel at the three reactors probably melted through containments and into the ground, raising the possibility of contaminated groundwater. If much of the fuel was indeed in the ground early in the crisis, the “feed and bleed” strategy initially taken by Tokyo Electric — pumping cooling water into the reactors, producing hundreds of tons of radioactive runoff — would have done little to help. Workers have now put in place a circulating cooling system that recycles water, which results in less runoff.

Tokyo Electric does not deny that the fuel may have burrowed into the ground, but its officials say that “most” is likely to remain within the reactor, albeit slumped at the bottom in a molten mass.

Some experts had not expected even bursts of re-criticality to occur, because it was unlikely that the fuel would melt in just the right way — and that another ingredient, water, would be present in just the right amounts — to allow for any nuclear reaction. If episodes of fission at Fukushima were confirmed, Mr. Koide said, “our entire understanding of nuclear safety would be turned on its head.”

Other nuclear experts have debated for months whether nuclear reactions might be continuing, either in the fuel inside the reactors, or in the spent fuel pools at the plant. They have pointed, for example, to the continued reports of short-lived iodine in the spent fuel pool by Reactor No..3.

A former nuclear engineer with three decades of experience at a major engineering firm said that sustained re-criticality remained highly unlikely. But his main concern was that officials could not pinpoint the exact location of the nuclear fuel — which would greatly complicate the cleanup.

The engineer, who has worked at all three nuclear power complexes operated by Tokyo Electric, spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be identified by his former employers. He said that tiny fuel pellets could have been carried to different parts of the plant, like the spaces under the reactor, during attempts to vent them in the early days. That would explain several cases of lethally high radiation readings found outside the reactor cores.

“If the fuel is still inside the reactor core, that’s one thing,” he said. “But if the fuel has been dispersed more widely, then we are far from any stable shutdown.”

The developments added to the disquiet over handling of information related to the disaster. For almost two months after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, disaster, both company and government officials declared it was unlikely any meltdown had occurred at all at the Fukushima Daichi nuclear complex, finally conceding that the fuel had indeed slumped and had likely breached containments in three reactors.

The amount of detected xenon was small, and there was no rise in temperature, pressure or radiation levels at the reactor, Tokyo Electric said. Researchers were double-checking the data to make sure there were no errors, the company said. Experts concurred that it was possible that Tokyo Electric had made a simple error in its measurements.

But the urgent injection of boric acid underscored that the company was operating on the assumption that the measurements were valid. A naturally occurring element, boron soaks up the neutrons released when an atom is split so that those neutrons cannot go on to split other atoms in the process of fission. Nuclear power plants harness the energy released in the form of heat to produce electricity.

It is impossible to determine exactly what state the fuel is in, given that even an intact reactor can offer only limited gauges in the form of temperature, pressure readings and neutron flow, but not visual observation. That lack of clarity is one of the most resonant lessons of the Fukushima disaster, where those trying to guide the response and assess the danger operated by what amounted to educated guesswork.

In reactors of the design used at Fukushima, that chain reaction is normally stopped when the operator gives a command to insert control rods, which rise up from the bottom of the core and separate the fuel assemblies. But when the cores of three reactors at Fukushima melted, a large part of the fuel presumably formed a jumbled mass in the bottom of the vessel, and without a strict gridlike geometry, the control rods cannot be inserted. Some of the fuel has escaped the vessel, experts believe, and is in spaces underneath, where there is no way to use control rods to interrupt the flow of neutrons.

The jumble of material and conditions had seemed very unlikely to be able to produce sustained fission, but intermittent criticalities have long been suspected.

Junichi Matsumoto, a Tokyo Electric spokesman, acknowledged episodes of fission, telling a news conference: “There is a possibility that certain conditions came together temporarily that were conducive to re-criticality,” and that the measurements indicated a burst that occurred at a slightly higher rate than prior cases. “It’s not that we’ve had zero fission until now,” Mr. Matsumoto said. “But at this point, we do not think there is a large-scale and self-sustained re-criticality.”

A criticality could produce energy that would rearrange the wrecked fuel into a configuration that would no longer support fission, but gradually the material could come together in a form that would support a new burst of fission. That has been the case in previous so-called inadvertent criticalities in other accidents.

He said detailed measurements had not yet been taken at two other severely damaged reactors on the Fukushima site, but acknowledged the possibility of episodes of fission there too. The Fukushima complex, about 160 miles from Tokyo, was struck by a devastating earthquake and tsunami on March 11, which knocked out vital cooling systems and caused the nuclear fuel at three of the plant’s six reactors to melt, with radiation leaks and releases whose damage is still being calculated. A 12-mile exclusion zone is still in effect around the plant. Over 80,000 households were displaced.

The three reactors — together with spent fuel rods stored at a fourth damaged reactor — have been leaking radioactive material since the initial disaster, and new episodes of fission would only increase their dangers.

“Re-criticality would produce more harmful radioactive material, and because the reactors are damaged, there would be a danger of a leak,” said Hiroaki Koide, assistant professor at Kyoto University’s Research Reactor Institute, whose prescient warnings about nuclear safety have won him respect in Japan.

Mr. Koide holds that the nuclear fuel at the three reactors probably melted through containments and into the ground, raising the possibility of contaminated groundwater. If much of the fuel was indeed in the ground early in the crisis, the “feed and bleed” strategy initially taken by Tokyo Electric — where workers pumped cooling water into the reactors, producing hundreds of tons of radioactive runoff — would have prevented fuel still in the reactor from boiling itself dry and melting, but would not have done anything to reduce danger from fuel already in the soil — if it got that far. Workers have now put in place a circulating cooling system that recycles water, which results in less runoff.

Tokyo Electric does not deny the possibility that the fuel may have burrowed into the ground, but its officials say that “most” of the fuel likely remains within the reactor, albeit slumped at the bottom in a molten mass.

But even in their most dire assessments, some experts had not expected even bursts of re-criticality to occur, because it was unlikely that the fuel would melt in just the right way — and that another ingredient, water, would be present in just the right amounts — to allow for any nuclear reaction. If episodes of fission at Fukushima were confirmed, Mr. Koide said, “our entire understanding of nuclear safety would be turned on its head.”

Some nuclear experts have debated for months whether nuclear reactions might be continuing, either in the fuel inside the reactors, or in the spent fuel pools at the plant. They have pointed, for example, to the continued reports of short-lived iodine in the spent fuel pool at Reactor No. 3.

A former nuclear engineer with three decades of experience at a major engineering firm, meanwhile, said that sustained re-criticality remained highly unlikely. But his main concern was that officials could not pinpoint the exact location of the nuclear fuel — which would greatly complicate the cleanup.

The engineer, who has worked at all three nuclear power complexes operated by Tokyo Electric, spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be identified by his former employers. He said that tiny fuel pellets could have been carried to different parts of the plant, like the spaces under the reactor during attempts to vent them in the early days. That would explain several cases of lethally high radiation readings found outside the reactor cores.

“If the fuel is still inside the reactor core, that’s one thing,” he said. But if the fuel has been dispersed more widely, then we are far from any stable shutdown.”
114 2011-11-03 Yvonne McCain, a once-homeless mother of four whose years of living in a fetid, ramshackle welfare hotel in Midtown Manhattan led to a landmark court ruling requiring the city to provide decent shelter for homeless families, died Saturday in her rent-subsidized, middle-income apartment on Staten Island. She was 63.

The cause was cancer, her daughter Tameika McCain said.

Ms. McCain was the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit originally called McCain v. Koch. Except for hers, the names on the class-action suit changed three times as new mayors took office. The case, filed in 1983, was finally settled by the city and the Legal Aid Society in 2008.

But the primary issue was settled in 1986, when the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan ruled that New York City could not deny emergency shelter for homeless families with children. Previous cases had established the right of single homeless men and women to shelter.

In that ruling, the appellate court said that thousands of children were subject “to inevitable emotional scarring because of the failure of city and state officials to provide emergency shelter.”

Nearly 40 more proceedings would wind through trial and appeals courts over the next 22 years, as both sides wrestled over issues like whether the city was meeting basic standards of habitability. When the final settlement was reached, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said it marked “the beginning of a new era” in which “we can all move forward in our shared commitment to effectively meet the needs of homeless families.”
115 2011-11-03 In case you had not noticed — and what the N.B.A. should really worry about is if you didn’t — Tuesday night was supposed to be opening night in the N.B.A. In a normal year, when the owners don’t decide their billions are not enough to run their franchises, the Dallas Mavericks would have been unfurling a championship banner, LeBron James would have done something to annoy large amounts of people and Knicks fans would have been turned upside down and relieved of every last cent they own.

Sigh. Don’t you miss it already? O.K., neither does most everyone else because the season is too darned long to start with.

But still, it is maddening to watch the machinations of another pro sports lockout in which the owners strong-arm the players union to save them from their own terrible business decisions. They count on the public to turn on the players at some point because players (particularly N.B.A. players) have a great knack for making that happen. And the amazing thing is that it usually works. At the moment, an agreement seems to be hinging on the players caving in on the final points of contention.

In lieu of games Tuesday night, we had only anger, writes Mike Bresnahan in the Los Angeles Times, and ample blame to spread around on all sides. The owners have largely escaped individual blame by keeping their mouths shut by league gag order, which is what made Heat owner Micky Arison’s Twitter message so enlightening when he said Heat fans were angry at the wrong owner, writes Greg Cote in the Miami Herald. That cost Arison a $500,000 fine, which carried the message: Dude, let the players do the imploding. The players’ side has plenty of that going on, with Adrian Wojnarowski of Yahoo.com writing that union chief Billy Hunter has continually hurt the players’ cause and head player rep Derek Fisher fighting off accusations of secret meetings with the N.B.A., which Jason Whitlock of Foxsports.com writes is a sign of how poorly Fisher has done his job. According to Ken Berger of CBSSports.com, however, it’s the hard-line agents who are holding this whole mess up at this point.

Meanwhile, diehard N.B.A. fans are pained by the loss of games and the knowledge they will play into the owners’ hands by flocking back to the games as soon as they resume. Everyone else is wishing every year had a shorter season, without all the caterwauling.
116 2011-11-03 Mr. expressed confidence that the Greek people would back a referendum, though he did not specify what question would be posed. He added, however, that Greece would either stay in the euro zone, with all the obligations that this entailed, or leave. It remains unclear whether the Greek will approve a referendum.

In a feverish day of political maneuvering in , there were signs that Mr. Papandreou was firming up his political support. It appeared that one independent legislator and several others from his governing Socialist Party, who had been critical of Mr. Papandreou, may have relented, giving the prime minister a greater chance of surviving a no-confidence vote scheduled for Friday with his razor-thin two-vote majority.

If he were to lose the vote, his government would probably fall and the country would go to early elections, which could be held in a matter of weeks. That would add more uncertainty into an already volatile equation that is roiling financial markets and threatening to drag a heavily indebted into a that the might be powerless to reverse.

Europe has put pressure on Greece to hold the referendum as soon as possible, because a “no” vote might push Greece closer to a disorderly default.

It is also unclear exactly how Mr. Papandreou would phrase the question to be put to the voters. He has said it will be on the deal reached last week to write down Greek debt in exchange for austerity measures, but Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos has also suggested it might be on whether Greece would stay in the euro zone.

Some analysts and politicians predict that Mr. Papandreou will pass the confidence vote on Friday but may lose a subsequent vote on the motion to hold a referendum.

“I believe that the referendum won’t go through,” said Panos Kouroumplis, a former Socialist member of Parliament who was ousted from the party when he voted against the midterm program of austerity measures. “The government will win the vote of confidence, but the M.P.’s who are opposing the referendum will vote against it when they’re asked to vote for its implementation.”

Amid the general confusion, the strategy of Greece’s center-right New Democracy opposition appears to be to wait for the Socialists to implode. The opposition leader, Antonis Samaras, repeated calls on Wednesday for early elections.

Mr. Samaras called Mr. Papandreou — his former roommate at — “desperate, panic-ridden and dangerous” and said snap polls would bring “deliverance” to the debt-wracked country. “We do not want elections purely because of the indisputable discord between the people and the government but because danger is stalking this country,” he added.

Mr. Papandreou’s political fate now lies with his fellow members of the Socialist Party, which is divided between reform-minded politicians who think he has failed to deliver promised changes; his die-hard supporters; and traditionalists loath to dismantle the welfare state they helped build.

On Oct. 16, three government ministers issued a statement calling on Mr. Papandreou to carry out the changes — cutting government jobs, privatizing government businesses and cutting pensions — more quickly. Their move was widely seen as an effort to position themselves as reformers in a post-Papandreou future — or perhaps the start of a potential breakaway party in a new political constellation.

On Tuesday, one Socialist legislator, Milena Apostolaki, defected, calling Mr. Papandreou’s move to hold a referendum “an erroneous political decision that not only divides the nation but also puts at risk all the efforts and painful sacrifices already made by the Greek people.”

But at the same time the prime minister appeared to win the support of one independent member of Parliament, Elsa Papadimitriou, a former conservative.

And on Wednesday, his support firmed up even more. According to George Katrougalos, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Thrace, there was “obvious change of climate” among the Socialists after the cabinet meeting. He said the turning point came when dissidents realized that there was no possibility of forming a new coalition government. “The only alternative they had would be elections, or even worse a dissolution” of the party, or a potentially catastrophic election result. “So they were convinced that unity within the party was crucial.”

All the other opposition parties have said they will vote “no” in Friday’s confidence vote, including the far-right party, which has backed Mr. Papandreou in past votes on austerity measures. In the past, Socialist legislators have been known for “empty threats,” said Vasiliki Siouti, a political reporter at the center-left daily Eleftherotypia. “No one knows if Papandreou’s government will fall,” she added. “Because no one wants to be the one to actually kill the majority, the one to put the last nail in the coffin. No one wants to do the first step.”
117 2011-11-03 “This is one of the sports properties anyone looking to buy a team would want,” Boland said.

Robert Wuhl, the actor and sports talk-show host, said his discontent with the Dodgers grew after his season-ticket costs doubled following a fourth-place finish in 2010.

“I didn’t re-up,” he said. “I didn’t go to one Dodgers game this season. I missed it. But I wasn’t going to give him another dime.”

Wuhl added, “I think the people of L.A. are very happy now.” McCourt bought the team from Rupert Murdoch’s Fox Entertainment Group, which had acquired it from the O’Malley family, the team’s owner for 47 years.

McCourt took the team on a strange odyssey and challenged the loyalty of its fans.

He brought a small baseball pedigree with him; his grandfather owned a piece of the Boston Braves. McCourt’s Dodgers had decent on-field success. They played in the postseason four times, twice losing in the league division series and twice in the National League Championship Series. They finished fourth in the N.L. West in 2010 and third this past season, under the rookie manager Don Mattingly, with a record of 82-79.

But McCourt turned out to be a troublesome owner who incurred the wrath of Commissioner Bud Selig, who invoked the “best interests of baseball” in trying to get him to sell. McCourt bought the team entirely with debt, some of it financed by Fox. He added still more debt as the years passed.

Last April, as enmity rose between McCourt and baseball. Rob Manfred, an M.L.B. executive vice president, said: “There is no owner who, during the period 2004 to 2011, that we’ve spent more time with on his business problems, his business issues and his desire to be treated differently under applicable rules, than Frank McCourt.”

If McCourt’s financial problems worried M.L.B. — the Dodgers have said that Selig approved how McCourt structured the team’s debt — then his divorce proved to be an embarrassment. Testimony revealed tales of the McCourts’ spending on a lavish lifestyle. Not only that, McCourt fired his wife as the team’s co-chief executive soon after she filed for divorce, citing insubordination and other charges.

Baseball asserts that McCourt siphoned $189 million from the team over seven years.

But McCourt’s troubles could extend beyond baseball. Federal investigators in Los Angeles have been interviewing Dodger employees and have subpoenaed financial records from both the team and Major League Baseball as part of an inquiry into McCourt’s financial dealings, according to two people with knowledge of the inquiry.

What exactly the authorities are seeking to determine is unclear. But during the McCourts’ divorce case it emerged that the couple  had not  paid taxes for a number of years.

The hostilities between McCourt and baseball appear to be mainly over thanks to mediation.

The agreement reached to sell the team, under the bankruptcy court’s supervision, must still be approved by Judge Kevin Gross. If he agrees, the team will be put up for sale According to three people briefed on the agreement, McCourt might hold on to one of his assets, the Dodger Stadium parking lot.

McCourt will hang around until a new owner emerges. But his eventual departure was greeted by the blog Mike Scioscia’s Tragic Illness with these words:
118 2011-11-03 Stocks pushed higher Wednesday as investors weathered continued uncertainty over the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and a lowered growth forecast for the United States.

Global equities markets plummeted on Tuesday after the surprise announcement that Greece was planning a referendum on its latest bailout package. But on Wednesday, even as the tremors from Europe continued, they rose more than 1 percent.

“It is still a mess but there is no ‘new’ news today of really anything,” said Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at Nuveen Asset Management. “It is the absence of a negative catalyst.”

Still, analysts noted that it was too early to declare that a recovery was in the works for the financial markets. The main bailout fund of the 17 members of the European Union that use the euro, the European Financial Stability Facility, halted an expected issuance of 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) of 10-year bonds to help finance Ireland’s bail-out because of a lack of buyers.

That delay caused an early rally in European stocks to fizzle and kept up pressure on the debt of some countries with weaker economies, according to strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman. Italian 10-year bond yields were stuck above 6 percent, for example, highlighting concern about that highly indebted country.
119 2011-11-03 Four questions for Frank Pizzurro, the owner of the Brooklyn Denim Company in Williamsburg, which sells a wide-ranging selection of denim, along with hip supporting apparel and accessories.     What sells season after season? We have a big followi...
120 2011-11-03 Is there really such a thing as a worthwhile set of earphones for less than $10? I can hardly believe I'm saying this, but I think there is.     Last week I spent some time trying out a set of iLuv City Lights earphones, which list ''Explosive Bas...
121 2011-11-03 All weekend, art lovers flocked to Sotheby's 10th-floor galleries to see the paintings, drawings and sculptures up for auction there this week. Among the stars was the first of a suite of four bronze sculptures of a woman's back that Matisse creat...
122 2011-11-04 Apple made a series of large stock grants to most of its senior leaders, giving the company’s top talent a big reason to stay....
123 2011-11-04 Apple made a series of large stock grants to most of its senior leaders, giving Apple's top talent a big reason to stay at the company....
124 2011-11-04 The circus, now in its 34th season, recently opened a new show titled “Dream Big” at Lincoln Center’s Damrosch Park....
125 2011-11-04 They will be taking over Rocco restaurant....
126 2011-11-04 They will be taking over Rocco restaurant....
127 2011-11-04 The conductor James Levine is withdrawing from Wagner's "Gotterdammerung," the final installment of the Metropolitan Opera's new "Ring" cycle....
128 2011-11-04 The conductor James Levine is withdrawing from Wagner's "Götterdämmerung," the final installment of the Metropolitan Opera's new "Ring" cycle....
129 2011-11-04 Dippin' Dots, which sells flash-frozen ice cream shaped into round pellets, has been struggling with its creditors and owes more than $11 million to Regions Bank....
130 2011-11-04 Dippin' Dots, which sells flash-frozen ice cream shaped into round pellets, has been struggling with its creditors and owes more than $11 million to Regions Bank....
131 2011-11-04 A watchdog group on asked the Federal Election Commission to investigate whether Herman Cain's campaign and his campaign manager, Mark Block, violated federal campaign finance law....
132 2011-11-04 A watchdog group on asked the Federal Election Commission to investigate whether Herman Cain's campaign and his campaign manager, Mark Block, violated federal campaign finance law....
133 2011-11-04 We're excited to announce the next TimesOpen event, a discussion of what's next in social media technology, interfaces and business models--Monday, November 14, starting at 6:30 p.m. in the Times Building conference facility on the 15th floor....
134 2011-11-04 Excess stock market volatility ­ — price moves that get reversed in a few days or weeks — has risen to levels seen only three times before in the past 60 years: after the 1987 stock market crash, near the bottom of the market decline in 2002 and during the financial crisis and recession of 2008 and 2009. The charts show the difference between the amount the Standard & Poor’s 500 moved over each 13-week period and the total of the daily changes, without regard to whether the daily move was up or down, and expresses the amount as a percentage of the index value at the beginning of each 13-week period. In a market that went up every day, or down every day, over a 13-week period, the figure would be zero. Highlighted areas show recessions.
135 2011-11-04 People who believe they were victims of phone hacking can choose to use the settlement process, potentially avoiding legal proceedings....
136 2011-11-04 People who believe they were victims of phone hacking can choose to use the settlement process, potentially avoiding legal proceedings....
137 2011-11-04 With a bit of Mel Gibson, too....
138 2011-11-04 With a bit of Mel Gibson, too....
139 2011-11-04 As the stock continued to climb, the daily deals site, which raised $700 million, is valued at nearly $19 billion....
140 2011-11-04 As the stock continued to climb, the daily deals site, which raised $700 million, is valued at nearly $19 billion....
141 2011-11-04 A new study finds that those laid off from long-term jobs in the recession are likely to lose a total of $774 billion in earnings over the next 25 years, even if they get new jobs....
142 2011-11-04 A new study finds that those laid off from long-term jobs in the recession are likely to lose a total of $774 billion in earnings over the next 25 years, even if they get new jobs....
143 2011-11-04 Once accessible to the public on a limited basis, the gardens are now open to regular eco-friendly minibus visits, which depart from Piazza Pio XII near St Peter's Square five days a week....
144 2011-11-04 Once accessible to the public on a limited basis, the gardens are now open to regular eco-friendly minibus visits, which depart from Piazza Pio XII near St Peter's Square five days a week....
145 2011-11-04 Louie Gohmert, a Republican congressman from Tyler, has not endorsed a candidate but has contributed to Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota — and as o the end of September had not reported any contributions to Mr. Perry.

Mr. Romney’s endorsements include those of Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of San Antonio; former Chief Justice Tom Phillips of the Texas Supreme Court; and Scott Caven, a former University of Texas System regent who once served as Mr. Perry’s finance chairman and has contributed more than $18,000 to his re-election bids for governor in the last decade.

Mr. Smith declined to speak with The Texas Tribune, but he said in a statement that he had committed to Mr. Romney three months before Mr. Perry announced his candidacy.

In the current election cycle, Mr. Romney has received campaign contributions in Texas from John Barnhill and Janiece Longoria, former University of Texas System regents; Bob Perry, a billionaire home builder; Larry Kellner, the former Continental Airlines chief executive; and Mayor Mike Rawlings of Dallas, none of whom reported contributions to Mr. Perry in the first 48 days of his presidential campaign.

Mr. Kellner, who has contributed $25,000 to Mr. Perry in past elections, said in an e-mail that Mr. Romney “is the right leader for the country in these challenging economic times.”

Mr. Rawlings said through a spokeswoman that his contribution should not be seen as an endorsement of Mr. Romney and that he made it at the request of his business partner, who is Mr. Romney’s co-chairman for finance in Texas.

A spokesman for Bob Perry (no relation to Rick Perry) — who has given Mr. Perry’s campaigns for governor more than $2.5 million over the last decade — did not respond to questions about whether he endorses Mr. Romney.

Meanwhile, the Dallas real estate magnate Harlan Crow has helped finance the presidential bid of former Gov. Jon Huntsman of Utah, despite having given more than $142,000 to Mr. Perry’s past bids for governor. John Mackey, the chief executive of Whole Foods, based in Austin, has contributed to the long-shot campaign of former Gov. Gary Johnson of New Mexico, a libertarian.

In separate interviews, Dr. Burgess and Mr. Barton, both of whom say they had decided to endorse Mr. Gingrich before Mr. Perry entered the race, said they did not believe that Mr. Perry was the best-qualified Republican candidate.

Mr. Barton said the governor assured him last spring that he had no interest in running for president. He said Mr. Perry is “not quite as well prepared to step into the No. 1 office right off the bat” as Mr. Gingrich, but that he thinks Mr. Perry could “get there” quickly.

Dr. Burgess, who acknowledged he “got on the other side” of Mr. Perry last year by endorsing Ms. Hutchison for governor, said he had personally asked Mr. Gingrich to run in late 2009.

Dr. Burgess said he patched up “a lot of the hurt feelings” with Mr. Perry last spring. But the governor “did not convey to members of the Texas delegation that he was thinking about doing this,” Dr. Burgess said. “Rick never came up here and said, ‘I’ve got to have you guys.’ ”

Mr. Miller, the political consultant, said support for Mr. Perry’s bid in Texas, while widespread, had a far different feel from George W. Bush’s first presidential race. To campaign for Mr. Bush, then the Texas governor, state lawmakers and Austin lobbyists routinely traveled to primary states at their own expense, he said — some of them Democrats.

“Everyone was saying: ‘Have you been to Michigan? To New Hampshire?’ There was a cool factor,” Mr. Miller said.

But the risks of opposing the sitting governor were great then too. When Representative Garnet Coleman, Democrat of Houston, campaigned against Mr. Bush in his first presidential bid, it was unusual; Mr. Coleman and Mr. Bush were friends, and some of Mr. Coleman’s fellow Democrats were on the trail supporting Mr. Bush.

Mr. Coleman was bullied. Lawmakers warned him he was endangering a good political career. They told him he had a target on his back. He worried that his bills would be vetoed, but he was not deterred.

“I thought it was better that we keep him here than send him to the White House, where he could do more harm,” he said.
146 2011-11-04 “It’s a divorce. I don’t know how else to put it,” said David G. Oliveira, a T.S.C. trustee who opposed the split. “We’re dividing up the assets. And the children of this divorce are the students.”

Even the shared mascot is a casualty of the separation: Students at the community college, which predated the partnership by about 65 years but now must be reaccredited, will continue to be Scorpions. A competition is under way to select a new mascot for the university. Starting this week, students are being asked for the first time to identify with one school when they register for classes so that future enrollment numbers can be gauged.

The institutions are interwoven at every level, even subterranean. Detailed inventory is currently being taken of each side’s holdings, down to who bought each piece of furniture, with dissection set to begin early next year.

The faculty members, all of whom are currently considered employees of the university, will have to be separated. For some, based on the courses they teach, their ultimate affiliation is a foregone conclusion, but many occupy a gray area.

“I think that at the end of the day, if we can project to 2020, it will all turn out good. But will there be hurt feelings along the way? Absolutely,” said Elizabeth Heise, president of U.T.B./T.S.C.’s Academic Senate, adding that many of her colleagues have put their houses up for sale.

Lily Tercero, the newly selected T.S.C. president, said issues like tenure and contractual obligations were being studied. By February, she said, she expects to announce what programs the community college intends to offer.

“We’re dealing with people’s lives,” Ms. Tercero said, “and we care about people’s lives. We want to be sure that we do what we can to be fair and equitable.”

Some have questioned the advisability of trying to stretch resources at a time when state support of higher education is dwindling. As Fred Rusteberg, a local bank president, said, “Our region has very few resources, so we cannot afford to make a mistake.”

Francisco Rendon, known as Kiko, the current T.S.C. board chairman who ran on a platform of lowering costs for community college students, said, “A year and a half from now when we start publishing the new tuition rates, the community will start realizing why those painful changes took place.”

Mr. Rendon said higher education in the area would benefit from the split. “They needed it to raise their level of excellence,” he said of U.T.B., “and we needed it to be able to refocus on the basic community college mission, because it was being forgotten.”

Ms. García also sees opportunity. She hopes to see a modern four-year university built that produces, among other things, top-quality teachers and bi-literate graduates. Francisco Cigarroa, the U.T. System chancellor, has also made the development of U.T.B. a top priority, and the system’s regents have recently invested more than $30 million in the area.

The university will also tighten its admission policies. Mary Rose Cardenas, a former T.S.C. board chairwoman who helped create the original partnership, predicted that open admissions would be the greatest loss to the community as the relationship between the institutions changes.

While many on both sides anticipate a positive interaction, it will depend on the same personalities that led to the split in the first place.

“If we can keep it objective and rational,” Ms. García said, “then it will be one level of negotiations. If it gets emotional and subjective and vindictive, then the rules are all out the window.”
147 2011-11-04 The notion of football as marker of regional pride was not explicitly Southern, but as with so many things it was here that it took on its most eccentric forms. The historian T. Harry Williams described how Louisiana Gov. Huey Long, his identity synonymous with his state’s, insisted that L.S.U. use plays of his design, and devised a system in which he would signal the call from the sideline by grabbing the poor coach by the neck.

In the Bryant era, the Crimson Tide again became a rallying point for newspaper editors, politicians and the Southern public at large; the Tide has always seemed like a pro team because so many of its fans, myself included, have no more connection with the university than being born in the same state.

As the South was again becoming a national pariah, this time for its defense of racial subjugation, the dominant Crimson Tide was “a potent symbol of pride and cultural vitality to white Southerners in the midst of profound social transformation,” Doyle wrote in his paper “Bear Bryant: A Symbol for an Embattled South.”

The Bear’s wiry, white Alabama farm boys, in a testament to the rearing of their mommas and poppas, could take on any team in the country, including those that were integrated. And indeed they could, until they couldn’t.

Much has been discussed about Bryant’s role in this social transformation — whether his moves toward integration at Alabama were slyly pragmatic or disgracefully late — but the point is that he had one, whether he wanted it or not.

Nowadays you might be able to find some children and dogs named Saban, but the notion that he is an exemplar for some embattled Southern Way of Life seems pretty exotic. The South is just not the foreign country it once was. There are Bank of Americas next to the barbecue stands. Dixie has been Americanized, the United States has been Dixified and everybody eats at Applebee’s. The game has changed, too.

The competitive market for television — witness the backroom horse-trading required to move this weekend’s game to prime time — the multimillion-dollar coaching salaries and the increasing nationalization of recruiting have bled out much of the old intimacy. In 2009, running back Mark Ingram became the first Crimson Tide player to win the Heisman Trophy, a testament to how mommas raise their children — in Michigan.

“The regional identity of football has become less distinct over time,” Doyle said, pointing to “the rise of ESPN and the fact that kids can grow up in Oregon and North Dakota and develop an attachment to Alabama.”

Yes, there are a few Mississippi fans who think their team’s current misfortunes have something to do with the decommissioning of their former mascot, Colonel Reb. And the chanting of “S-E-C! S-E-C!” may be, as some have suggested, a politically correct way of singing “Dixie.” But with Missouri and Texas A&M likely to join the Southeastern Conference, the definition of Dixie may soon have to be pretty broad.

I come in and out of Alabama these days covering politics and even some rather hotly debated state laws, and I will be in the stands on Saturday night with the unhinged pilgrims of the Tide faithful. These two things are different, it seems to me, and I can’t imagine anyone would suggest otherwise. For all the commercialism, homogenization and other evils of the modern world, they have brought about this bit of horse sense: when we Tide fans yell our fool heads off on Saturday night, we want a win on the football field, and that is plenty enough.

And it is unlikely that Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal would think of foisting his defensive strategies on the L.S.U.  coaching staff.  Though if he chose to do so this weekend, I do not think that many Tide fans would begrudge him.
148 2011-11-04 Since Mr. Morgan first picked up a baton, he has made it his mission to bring people of color into the symphony concert hall. To him, the orchestra is more than a vehicle for pretty music; it is a political tool for probing racial tensions and repairing them.

“Everything we do is a reflection of Oakland,” Mr. Morgan said. “And like many big places, Oakland is a fractious community. The thing I find most interesting about orchestras is using them to bring the town together. That’s why our programming is kind of wacky sometimes. We want the fans of this music and that music, who may never see each other in real life, to come and watch a concert together.”

The Oakland East Bay Symphony devotes a third of its annual $2.5 million budget to education programs. Mr. Morgan appears regularly in Oakland schools to show children with the same skin color as his that classical music can strike serious grooves of its own. “We’ve been so lucky to have him,” said Phil Rydeen, manager of the Oakland school district’s performing arts programs. “He’s dynamic. The kids love him. So do the teachers. He’s helped make them better at their craft.”

His activism was bred in the bone.

Mr. Morgan grew up in Washington, D.C., where his parents, both government health researchers, fought civic battles to improve the public schools that he and his younger sister attended. Being gay, he said, has also shaped his political mission.

“All of my ideas about bringing people together come from seeing myself as outsider,” Mr. Morgan said. “Being black in what’s considered a white music culture, being gay in a straight culture. Everything to me is about asking, ‘How do you use your outsider status to bring more people together?’ ”

The “wacky” programs Mr. Morgan has assembled over the past two decades are conscientiously planned. Because of its small budget, the East Bay Symphony holds only six concerts a season. That causes Mr. Morgan to pack a world of ideas into each performance.

This season is a microcosm of his vision, which matches classic and 20th-century works with contemporary pieces by local composers. An April concert, “Notes From the Philippines,” offers a Mendelssohn overture; Dvorak’s cello concerto, featuring the soloist David Requiro, a Filipino-American who was raised in Oakland; and a new composition by Art Khu, a San Francisco jazz pianist and arranger.

Although Friday’s concert may seem traditional, Mr. Morgan said, it is one of his most ambitious. Along with Bernstein’s “Age of Anxiety,” it features George Gershwin’s “American in Paris,” Duke Ellington’s “New World a-Comin’ ” and “Estancia,” by the Argentine composer Alberto Ginastera.

The program, Mr. Morgan said, maps a story about race, music and culture in America. It takes off with art music in Europe, touches down on jazz, passes through an age of anxiety and takes flight with a Latin ballet. The program, Mr. Morgan said, “ends with us seeing America as the Americas.”

Mr. Morgan then smiled as he described the ways the concert mirrored the Bay Area. “The Age of Anxiety” will feature the acclaimed pianist Sara Davis Buechner, his longtime friend and colleague, who was once David Buechner.

So to recap, Mr. Morgan said, “we have a black conductor, a transgendered pianist, and we’re playing Bernstein, Duke and Gershwin. What more could you possibly want?”
149 2011-11-04 “They’ll come with their stress, not ready to work on math,” said Jessica Stein Colvin, Galileo’s wellness coordinator, “and we try to prepare them to face the day.”

In a recent districtwide survey of teachers who had referred students to Wellness Centers, three-quarters reported greater academic success. Eighty-six percent said they noticed that the students had improved emotional well-being.

The demand for services is growing throughout the district. Wellness Centers at 15 of San Francisco’s high schools served more than 7,000 students last year, almost half the public high school population. Counting repeat visits, the Galileo Wellness Center handled more than 17,000 drop-ins.

“Our No. 1 need is more mental health clinicians,” Ms. Colvin said. “There is mental health therapy happening here all the time. Every single clinical space is used every hour of the day.”

Rahsaan, a 17-year-old a senior at Galileo, broke up with his girlfriend last year. He is estranged from his parents and siblings — he has lived in the Bayview district with his disabled grandfather, whom he has cared for for more than 10 years.

Last semester, he said, his grades plummeted when he hit an emotional wall.

“I was outside and one of the teachers saw me crying and they brought me down here,” Rahsaan said. “Jessica and the other teacher stayed here after school to make sure I wasn’t going to harm myself or anything. It helped me a lot because I was, like, literally going to kick somebody’s ass and not care about the consequences.”

Ms. Colvin connected Rahsaan with a 24-hour support program in his neighborhood. This year, he has been dropping into the Wellness Center almost every day to relax or talk about things on his mind.

“We want them to understand, ‘I have these feelings but I’m safe,’ ” Ms. Colvin said. “ ‘But if something big happens in my life, I know where to go.’ ”

The San Francisco Wellness Initiative is a joint project of the district and the city’s Department of Children, Youth and their Families, and the Department of Public Health. The centers were created in the wake of the Columbine High School massacre in 1999, as schools around the country focused resources on campus security and troubled youths.

Kevin Gogin, program director of the district’s School Health Programs, said the schools saw a greater opportunity.

“We took an approach that was particular to random acts of violence and decided to go broad and provide a spectrum of services so we could reach as many students as possible,” Mr. Gogin said.

Michael Baxter, director of youth programs for the Department of Public Health, said the wellness teams had found success through their integration into the schools and innovative approaches to reaching students.

“They’re always looking for what’s out there, what kind of services have evidence behind them and are worthwhile interventions,” Mr. Baxter said.

A growing number of students seeking help are immigrants or refugees. A third of Galileo’s students were born outside the United States. Some carry the secret of their illegal-immigrant parents. Others are separated from relatives or are cared for by a changing roster of family members who move in and out of the country.

“Grief and loss is huge,” said Ulash Dunlap, a therapist at Galileo. “Even students who have been here for five years — that loss takes a long time to settle.”

In a 2010 district survey of students who had participated in wellness programs, 81 percent reported coming to school more often as a result; 69 percent reported academic improvement. Ninety percent said there was an adult in the Wellness Center who cared about them.

Vilma, Rashon and Michelle, all 17-year-old seniors, attend a girls’ group through the Wellness Center each week with about a dozen other students.

“Everybody’s basically being open and they feel comfortable enough to share stuff that they wouldn’t normally share if we were walking down the hallway,” Rashon said.

Vilma and Michelle used to skip a lot of classes to party or hang out at the movies all day. Their grade point averages dropped below 2.0.

“All we wanted to do was go out, have fun, smoke, drink, not go to school,” Vilma said. “Because of the fun we had then, right now we’re going to night school.”

Aside from school, Vilma is also stressed about her boyfriend, who is 18 and was recently arrested. “I really care about him,” she said. “He’s not a kid anymore. He’s not going to juvie, he’s going to county.”

The workshops and events at Galileo last week were the school’s biggest push yet to destigmatize emotional health issues. During third period, 40 students gathered in the library to talk about stress. Casey Gold, the Wellness Center’s community health outreach worker, asked, “How many of you have felt stress before?” Thirty hands shot up.

Patrick Delaney, the school librarian, watched from the back of the room.

“Libraries are places where quiet kids generally gravitate,” Mr. Delaney said, “but quiet doesn’t necessarily mean happy or contented or at peace. One of the things I’m seeing a lot of that I did not see as much before is depression. One kid came to me and said, ‘Everything is flat. I feel like I’m carrying a backpack full of rocks.’ ”

During a lunch break, music blared on the quad as students played carnival games and won prizes for answering questions on emotional health. As the bell announced the end of lunch, 14-year-old Brandon Wilson bounded through a crowd of students, landed in front of a spin-the-wheel game and asked a woman, “Can I play one last time?”

He spun the wheel, which stopped on the words, “Signs of stress.” The woman told him to name three. Bouncing on his toes, he said, “Keeping to yourself, low self-esteem, starting to go crazy.”
150 2011-11-04 The top-ranked Novak Djokovic cruised to a 6-1, 6-2 win over Lukasz Kubot, a 64th-ranked qualifier, in the second round at the Swiss Indoors in Basel. Seventh-seeded Andy Roddick recovered from losing the opening set to beat Radek Stepanek, 2-6, 6-3, 6-3. Roddick next plays Roger Federer, a four-time champion at his hometown event. (AP)
151 2011-11-04 By saving money on interest payments on the preferred shares, the move to issue new common shares would not reduce earnings and could actually add to earnings in the short term, the bank said in its filing.

In addition, swapping shares of common stock for the preferred shares will add to the bank’s Tier 1 capital base, because under international regulatory standards preferred stock does not count as common equity while common stock does.

Because the preferred stock is trading below par value, Bank of America can buy it back from investors at a price above where it is trading, yielding a gain for those shareholders. But because it is still below par, it allows Bank of America to book a gain on the difference.

“We want to exchange one form of capital, which is very expensive, for another, which counts toward our Tier 1 common equity on terms that are economically favorable to us,” said Jerry Dubrowski, a spokesman for the bank. “Our goal is to have the strongest balance sheet we can have, and this is an important step.”

Shares of Bank of America have fallen nearly 50 percent in 2011, as the bank faces tens of billions of dollars in liabilities for its role in the subprime mortgage mess as well as a slowdown in other parts of its business. Further increasing the number of shares outstanding from the current level of 10.1 billion is unlikely to win favor with investors. As a result, Bank of America’s stock fell nearly 2 percent in after-hours trading.

This is the second time this week that the company has reversed course. On Tuesday, Bank of America announced it was calling off plans to impose a $5 fee on debit cardholders after an uproar by consumers as well as politicians in Washington.

Under Mr. Moynihan’s leadership, Bank of America has been busy shedding noncore assets and raising capital. In August, it sold half its stake in the China Construction Bank, adding $3.5 billion to Tier 1 capital. It is now the nation’s second-biggest bank, having recently lost the top spot to JPMorgan Chase.

The billionaire Warren E. Buffett invested $5 billion in the company in August by buying preferred shares. That deal did not count toward Tier 1 capital but was widely seen as a crucial endorsement of Bank of America’s management team amid growing doubts among investors. His shares would not be affected by the bank’s latest plan.

Shareholders are sensitive about issuing new common stock because it dilutes the bank’s earnings per share. In this case, the dilution equals about 4 percent. Bank of America’s share count exploded after the financial crisis of 2008, because the company used stock to buy Merrill Lynch and also issued shares to pay the government back for two bailouts totaling $45 billion.

The deal with Mr. Buffett could cause a 5 percent dilution and that, along with the 4 percent dilution from the plan announced Thursday, means “shareholders are being nickel and dimed here,” said Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer.
152 2011-11-04 The most immediate outcome of a decertification drive would be chaos, the mere threat of which could hasten a deal. Feldman said it could be “just another ploy to gain leverage” for the players and a “major weapon in collective bargaining.” But it also could make it tougher to reach a deal.

The 50-player faction is essentially demanding that the union make no more concessions. That means holding firm for a 52.5 percent share of league revenue — as the union has done so far — and rejecting any new restrictions on contracts and free agency.

If the union compromises too far in either area, it could trigger the decertification drive. The mere threat could handcuff union officials at the bargaining table. Or, in theory, it could motivate the owners to compromise to avoid legal purgatory.

If the union decertifies, its leadership would effectively be dismissed, giving the league no one to negotiate with, and no immediate possibility for a new collective bargaining agreement.

“In terms of long-term or even short-term stability of the league, it’s obviously a huge setback if they go through with it,” Feldman said. “And that’s a big if.”

Decertifying would require that 30 percent of the union — about 130 players — sign a petition, which would then trigger an election by the full membership, under the auspices of the National Labor Relations Board. It would then take a simple majority to decertify.

The player faction held two conference calls this week with an antitrust lawyer, on Tuesday and on Thursday, according to the person who had spoken with the group. He spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the effort.

It was not clear whether the players had notified the union of the effort. Union officials did not immediately return calls Thursday night.

The movement was said to be entirely player-driven, and borne of a frustration with the pace of negotiations. The players have been locked out since July 1, and a month of games have been canceled. Talks have broken off four times in the last five weeks.

N.B.A. owners want a 50-50 split of revenue and have held firm to that position. The league is also pushing to eliminate certain salary-cap exceptions for teams that exceed the luxury-tax threshold. Those cap exceptions are viewed by players and agents as critical to a vibrant free-agent market. Their elimination would also trigger the decertification drive.

There are other obstacles. The union has filed an unfair labor practice charge with the N.L.R.B., and the board traditionally will not consider a decertification petition while a charge is pending.

Although the owners pre-emptively sued the union to block any attempt at dissolving, it would not apply in this case, Feldman said. That lawsuit covered only “disclaimer of interest” — in which union officials initiate the dissolution. It does not cover decertification, which is initiated by the players.

“If there is a true coup of the union, then the nonunionized players have a much stronger argument that they should be entitled to bring an antitrust suit,” Feldman said.

The hope for both sides, however, is that it never reaches that stage.

The decertification effort became public just hours after union leaders held a news conference to reaffirm their unity, and to quash rumors of infighting.

Union officials met for more than three hours on Thursday, mostly to formulate their bargaining strategy but in part to address the reports. Then they met with reporters, having literally and figuratively closed ranks.

Derek Fisher, the union’s president, and Billy Hunter, its executive director, sat side by side at a conference table, flanked by five players from the executive board. Rifts were denied, reports rebutted and common goals reaffirmed.

“Derek and I have an excellent relationship,” Hunter said. “The board, we’re all together. So if you’re all expecting anything other than that, you’re wasting your time.”

The character testimonials became necessary after a FoxSports.com report alleging that Fisher had attempted to broker a private deal with Commissioner David Stern, without the union’s knowledge. The report, which cited an unnamed source, accused Fisher of making that deal for personal gain: the possibility of a future job in the league.

Fisher called the report “libelous and defamatory” and demanded a retraction. On Thursday, he was asked directly whether he had, as reported, promised Stern that he could get the union to agree to a 50-50 split of revenue. “No, I did not,” Fisher said.

Fisher said a secret deal was impossible on its face. The union president is not empowered to make unilateral decisions. The nine-man executive board must sign off on any proposed labor deal, which would then be submitted to the 30 team representatives before going to a vote of the full membership.

Conspiracy theories aside, the brutal negotiating process has strained the relationship between Fisher and Hunter. Fisher, according to people in contact with the union, believes a 50-50 arrangement could be considered, if the union wins on certain other issues. Hunter is said to be adamant about staying at 52 percent or higher.

“I’ve never attached myself to a particular percentage,” Fisher said. Hunter took a more strident stance.

“My position,” he said, “is I don’t think there should ever be a circumstance where owners make the same or more than the players.”
153 2011-11-04 BEIJING — A Buddhist nun in southwest Sichuan Province died Thursday after setting herself on fire, becoming the 11th Tibetan to embrace a grisly protest against Chinese rule and at least the sixth to die doing so.

The death of the nun, Qiu Xiang, 35, was reported by Xinhua, the official news agency, and confirmed by exile groups, who gave her Tibetan name as Palden Choetso. She was the second nun in the predominantly Tibetan region to take her own life by self-immolation.

Like two previous cases, the most recent suicide took place in Ganzi Prefecture, known as Kardze in Tibetan, which is the site of several important Buddhist monasteries that have been under especially tight restrictions in recent months. Last week, a Tibetan monk, Dawa Tsering, set himself on fire during a religious ceremony at a monastery there.

Xinhua wrote a short news article about the latest case, saying the nun set fire to herself at a road crossing in Dawu County shortly before 1 p.m. The report said the local authorities were investigating her motives.

Kate Saunders of the International Campaign for Tibet said the nun reportedly made a plea for religious freedom and the return of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader, as her robes went up in flames. Ms. Saunders, citing the account of a local Tibetan, said fellow nuns took the injured woman back to their monastery, where she died a short time later. The local Tibetan said the authorities had since locked down the area and sent troops into the nunnery, which is known as Ganden Jangchup Choeling.

According to exile groups, the atmosphere in Kardze has been tense since demonstrations against Chinese policies broke out in the region in June. Such illegal gatherings have continued, including an unusually bold gathering of thousands in July for the birthday of the Dalai Lama.
154 2011-11-04 Majeed also boasted at the meeting that he could fix matches involving Pakistan outright in return for about $1.6 million.

Much of the concern has focused on Pakistan’s national team, but a special corruption unit of the International Cricket Council, the Dubai-based governing body of the world game, has been investigating the possibility that other teams have been involved in similar scandals.

Cricket experts have said corruption has the capacity to destroy the game unless policing is expanded, perhaps to the extent of posting officials from the unit, which includes former police officers, at all top international matches.

Amir, 18 at the time of the match, entered a guilty plea to the corruption charges early in the trial, a fact that was sealed on Cooke’s orders until the trial’s resolution. At sentencing, Cooke, addressing Amir through an Urdu interpreter, said that in determining his punishment he had taken into account Amir’s age, his vulnerability to pressure from the older players and his plea. “It took courage,” he said, to plead guilty, according to a BBC account. “You come from a village background where life is hard.”

Earlier this year, the players were barred from all forms of cricket for five years by the International Cricket Council, which had conducted its own inquiry. Cooke said he took that into account in passing sentence, but some powerful figures in the game have said publicly that the punishment, especially in Butt’s case, should be reviewed in light of the evidence at the trial and extended to expulsion for life.

Cooke scolded Butt at the hearing, saying he deserved the heaviest sentence of the three players because the evidence showed that he was “the orchestrator of this thing.” Cooke also said Butt had done “a terrible thing” in corrupting Amir, who was regarded by many as a natural successor to the legendary fast bowlers in Pakistan’s past.

In 1992, Pakistan won the sport’s World Cup, and it has continued to be an international power. For many of the nation’s 170 million people, cricket has been a source of pride in a society plagued by a history of military coups and political corruption. Pakistan has also been accused by the United States of conniving with the Taliban in mounting suicide bombings.

Inevitably, cricket fans will compare the penalties imposed on Butt with the fate of Hanse Cronje, the former South African captain who until now had been the most prominent player caught in a corruption scandal.

In 2001, after a lengthy inquiry in South Africa into match-fixing between South Africa and India, Cronje was barred from the sport for life. He died the next year, at 32, in a plane crash in Johannesburg. Two other South African players were suspended for six months but later resumed their international careers.
155 2011-11-04 At 4 p.m., the Standard & Poor’s 500 index was up 1.9 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.8 percent, and the Nasdaq rose 2.2 percent.

Treasury prices fell. The United States Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note was up to 2.063 percent in yield from 1.99 percent on Wednesday.

Investors are closely watching some of the more highly indebted countries with struggling economies in Europe.

The Italian bond yield rose to a high of 6.353 percent on Thursday before pedaling back to 6.167. Spanish bond yields were 5.463 percent, slightly higher than on Wednesday.

“It is obvious that the E.C.B. has caught the crisis virus and is trying everything it can to prevent a full-fledged recession,” Carsten Brzeski, an economist with ING in Brussels, wrote in a report.

The question now, he added, “is whether the E.C.B. is also willing to do everything to prevent a further escalation of the sovereign debt crisis, becoming the unconditional lender of last resort of the euro zone.”

The sovereign debt troubles have overshadowed global markets for more than a year. Most recently, equities markets have bounced around since an agreement reached in Europe last month, staging a strong rally before falling back as uncertainty grew about the details of the plan.

While the latest developments in Greece were seen as supportive for stocks, “the big thing was the European rate cut and that is what is driving the market,” said Doug Cote, chief strategist at ING Investment Management. “Investors are going to start nibbling around and going back to risk.”

The E.C.B had raised its benchmark interest rate twice this year, to 1.5 percent from 1 percent. On Thursday, the bank cut it to 1.25 percent.

Stanley Nabi, the chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management Group, said the E.C.B. had made a mistake when it raised rates, and was now correcting it in the context of a rapidly deteriorating situation in Greece and economic troubles in Europe.

“To an increasing degree every one of the countries in the euro zone is now experiencing a sluggish economy or is on the precipice of a recession,” he said. “I think what they are trying to do is just in case Greece pulls out of the euro zone or is thrown out, they want to build a moat around the other countries so that it won’t have a very deep impact on the global economy and European economies.”

Asian shares closed mostly lower. The Sydney market index S.&P./ASX 200 fell 0.3 percent. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index fell 2.5 percent. Shanghai bucked the trend, with the composite index rising 0.2 percent. Tokyo markets were closed for a national holiday.

Officials meeting in Cannes were grappling with the growing possibility that Greece will leave the euro zone, leaving a trail of scorched lenders in its wake and possibly shifting the focus of market turmoil to bigger countries like Italy and Spain. But even as they address those questions, the disarray in Europe threatens to weigh more broadly on the global economy.

On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve offered a sobering outlook for growth in the United States, predicting the economy would expand 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in 2012, down from its prior forecast of 3.3 percent to 3.7 percent. It said the unemployment rate would probably remain at 8.5 percent or above through the end of next year.

The euro was at $1.3845 from $1.3747 late Wednesday in New York.
156 2011-11-04 Mr. Papandreou’s decision to call off the referendum followed three days of political tumult that whipsawed world markets, shook the Continent to its foundations and drove angry European leaders to issue an ultimatum on Wednesday demanding that Greece decide once and for all if it wanted to remain a part of the and its currency bloc, the euro zone.

But after a day of political maneuvering , Greece’s Byzantine political storm began to look less like points of departure for Europe than hastily considered parliamentary maneuvers by a prime minister who was looking for a way to shore up support with both the Socialists and the opposition — or to negotiate a graceful exit. As has happened so often in the euro crisis, the fate of the European enterprise seemed to hinge on the political machinations of one of the union’s smallest members.

At first, Mr. Papandreou was said to have offered to resign before the confidence vote on Friday. By late afternoon, however, the Greek news media reported during the cabinet meeting that he not only was refusing to resign but was in fact calling off the referendum.

Late Thursday, there were reports that Mr. Papandreou had agreed to step down following the confidence vote on Friday after members of his cabinet urged him to do so for the good of the party. The prime minister, by this account, did not resist the idea.

He has offered no hint of that in public, saying he is simply trying to do what is best for Greece, which is to keep it in the European Union and the currency zone.

“The question was never about the referendum but about whether or not we are prepared to approve the decisions on Oct. 26,” he said, referring to the European Union’s debt deal, which wrote down some of Greece’s privately held debt by 50 percent, cutting the nation’s private and public-sector debt burden by about 30 percent over all. “What is at stake is our position in the E.U.”

The finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, confirmed that the referendum had been canceled and said the government should seek approval of the deal from a broader majority of 180 members in Parliament — which would require support from some of the opposition — rather than the simple majority of 151 that had backed previous measures.

Few Greeks, weary of austerity, seemed to have faith in their politicians. No matter who is in power, “it will stay the same,” said Stefanos Merkouris, a waiter in Athens. “Nothing’s going to change.”

The political situation is fraught with uncertainty. Whatever the outcome of the confidence vote, someone — either Mr. Papandreou or his designated successor — will have to sit down with Mr. Samaras to negotiate their conflicting visions.

Mr. Samaras has made it clear that he will not negotiate a unity government with Mr. Papandreou as prime minister, portraying his actions throughout the day as underhanded tactics to cling to power. “He’s lying, he’s blackmailing, maneuvering inside Greece and beyond, all in order to hold on to his position,” Mr. Samaras said in an address to lawmakers on Thursday evening. He said he had asked the prime minister to resign.

A source in New Democracy said the party wanted a caretaker government as a stopgap until elections in six weeks.

Before members of New Democracy walked out of Parliament on Thursday night, Mr. Samaras accused the prime minister of having backed off his referendum plan only after European leaders “reproached him” at a meeting in , , on Wednesday. “He is trying to convince us that he brought everything crashing down just to secure backing for an agreement that I had already supported on Oct. 27,” Mr. Samaras said.

The decision to drop the referendum was announced after Mr. Papandreou secured Mr. Samaras’s backing for the loan deal. Mr. Samaras maintained that he had never rejected the deal itself, only the government’s handling of it. His voting record shows that he has opposed all measures related to the deal and previous bailouts.

In spite of the political chaos, there was an element of déjà vu to the events on Thursday. In June, Mr. Samaras had rejected the prime minister’s offers to form a coalition government with Mr. Papandreou at the helm. The two may be at the same impasse today.

“This negotiation will succeed, or it will fail on the basis of personal antagonism,” said George Kirtsos, a political analyst and the owner of City Press, an Athens newspaper. “Since Samaras says part of the deal has to be that Papandreou will stand down, and Papandreou has not yet accepted it, it’s a kind of political poker, and you don’t know how it will end.”

Still, he added, “Something has begun to change in the political system. New Democracy used to say no to an agreement reached at the summit; Papandreou used to say no to a transitional government.”

Even if he survives in office, the prime minister is widely seen as having expended nearly all of his political capital. Ever since Greece asked for a bailout from the European Union in April 2010, he has struggled to satisfy seemingly irreconcilable constituencies: the Greek electorate and the nation’s foreign lenders.
157 2011-11-04 Animals were brought to a livestock market on Thursday in Kabul, Afghanistan, before Id al-Adha, the Islamic Feast of Sacrifice....
158 2011-11-04 JOHNSTON, Iowa - As controversy swirls around rival Herman Cain, the evolving strategy of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas as he readies for the Iowa caucuses in two months has become clear: To paint himself as the most anti-Washington candidate in the Re...
159 2011-11-05 The marathon eve dinner -- including 2,050 pounds of pasta and sauce -- was expected to serve 18,000 runners....
160 2011-11-05 Drosselmeyer rallied down the final stretch to overtake Game On Dude and win the Breeders’ Cup Classic....
161 2011-11-05 Welcome to our coverage of the second day of the Breeders' Cup World Championships in Louisville, Ky....
162 2011-11-05 Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, reported a smaller third-quarter profit on Friday after losing more than $2 billion on derivatives related to stock market performance.

That was nearly three times what Berkshire lost on the same instruments a year ago. Buffett has sharply criticized derivatives in general, but has said these particular contracts were safe and would ultimately be lucrative.

But Berkshire was hurt, like many other insurance companies in particular, by sharp declines in a broad range of market values. In a quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Berkshire said the indexes covered by the contracts fell 11 to 23 percent in the quarter.

Berkshire reported a net profit of $2.28 billion, or $1,380 for each Class A share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $2.99 billion, or $1,814 a share.

Cash at the end of the quarter was $34.78 billion, down from $47.89 billion at the end of June. During the third quarter, Berkshire financed the purchase of the chemical maker Lubrizol and a $5 billion investment in Bank of America, which accounted for the decline.

Operating income rose across segments, except for the company’s finance business, where it fell slightly.

Profit in the insurance business rose as a rebound in reinsurance results offset sharp declines at the auto insurer Geico.
163 2011-11-05 And then there is the fact that most of the firm’s investments were not in securities, where the dollar value of an investment is clear, but in commodities, where investors put up what is essentially a down payment on what a commodity will be worth on a future date. Sorting out who is owed what will also take time.

While MF Global may not have been a household name, it was respected in the commodities and futures markets. It provided the essential service of holding money and clearing trades.

The firm’s brand name was why smaller clients said they did not worry whether their money would be safe. Mark Tucker, who lives in the English seaside village of West Runton, population 1,633, manages rental properties by day. But he said he had been trading options for the last 18 years and had $50,000 with MF Global (and another $50,000 with another clearinghouse).

He has not had access to his account since Monday and was worried about some of the options he bought before the firm’s bankruptcy filing. They are bets that the prices of crude oil, coffee and sugar will fall. “It’s not a comfortable position,” he said. “By definition, the potential for losses on short options is limitless.”

Like many clients, he is trying to separate rumor from reality. He had heard that his account would be moved to another broker. He said his broker had been “trying to reassure me the only reason it hasn’t happened is they have 50,000 of these accounts and it should move over in the next 24 to 48 hours, but that’s what they told me 24 to 48 hours ago.”

So do clients of other commodities clearinghouses need to worry about the safety of their money?

SITUATION James W. Giddens, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed and the court-appointed trustee in the case, said his group was working closely with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation to transfer accounts to other commodity brokers. He said clients would be notified “if and when their accounts have been transferred.”

The court has approved the transfer of 50,000 commodities accounts to other brokers because those are the easiest to move and the most likely to be picked up. A spokesman for the trustee said that the selection of which accounts would be moved was led by the CME Group, the giant exchange where MF Global did business. On Friday, the CME Group announced that 15,000 accounts had been moved.

But even the clients whose accounts are transferred will not get all their money back immediately. Given that some of the funds involved are contested, clients will have access to only about two-thirds of their accounts’ value. This is a common practice to ensure that there is some money left to pay claims against MF Global.

MF Global was also a registered broker-dealer, like Fidelity and Schwab. The future of the securities accounts it held is less clear. Stephen Harbeck, chief executive of SIPC, said he believed there were only 6,000 securities accounts. So far, he said, the trustee had not found another home for them because they did not have a large amount of assets and a trading history. In other words, these accounts may not pay large fees and could be more of a hassle than they are worth to another firm.

“If we’re able to find a brokerage firm that is ready and willing and able to take the accounts, the accounts can be transferred quickly,” he said. “The precedent is Lehman Brothers, where we were able to transfer the accounts within seven to 10 days.”

He added, “Failing that, the process can take a few months.”

SIPC offers protection on securities accounts up to $500,000, though it could take years for claims to be paid. There is no equivalent backstop for commodities accounts.

Mr. Gavrylov, chief financial officer of a firm that trades actual commodities in Ukraine, said he had used MF Global for his personal commodity trading, in part, because he felt his money was safe there. “I thought this might happen to me here in Ukraine or in Russia, where the regulation is quite weak,” he said. “But I never thought this could happen with a big broker like MF Global.”

Some bigger money managers said they were confident that they would eventually get their money back, but they have the financial wherewithal to wait years and remain in business.

An investment adviser in Chicago who was not authorized to speak to the media said his firm, which manages about $400 million, had had over $5 million at MF Global but had been able to transfer most of it out last week.

“We got out because of word of mouth only,” he said. “No one knew anything specific. They just knew the run was on and we got out.”

PRECEDENT Jim Feltman, senior managing director at Mesirow Financial Consulting, said the collapse of MF Global may proceed along the lines of the 2007 bankruptcy of the Sentinel Management Group. Sentinel presented itself as a cash management firm that would keep money safe for commodity traders. But the company was using those funds as collateral to borrow money and invest in riskier securities. When those bets failed, the firm froze $1.6 billion in customer assets.

“In the Sentinel case, some funds were released quickly, but others were subject to cross claims and litigation,” said Mr. Feltman, who worked on the case for the court-appointed trustee. Four years later, he said, many people still do not have their money back.

He noted that recovering clients’ money was not as easy as presenting their account statement when client money may have been mixed in with the firm’s capital.

“If you think you have $1 million of ABC securities in your account, it may turn out that there are $1 million of those securities in your account. But it could also turn out that that $1 million of securities weren’t in your account the day before but in someone else’s account,” Mr. Feltman said. “What’s going on right now is the sorting out that gives rise to ownership.”

Sean O’Malley, a partner in the capital markets division at the law firm White & Case, said that protections were not as strong as investors thought when something went wrong. While there has been much talk about segregating assets, he said, assets are really held in one big pool, and it is only through accounting that they are assigned to a particular account.

”You’re really relying on the operational strength and integrity of the broker dealer,” he said. “So if the back office at MF Global isn’t properly segregating the assets, I don’t know if the customers can do anything about it.”

RESOLUTION Mr. Koutoulas, the commodities trading adviser from Chicago, flew to New York early this week to file an emergency motion in federal court asking that all accounts be unfrozen and immediately transferred in full to other clearinghouses. He argued that a failure to do so would cause investors at other firms to worry about the safety of their money. The motion was denied late Thursday, but he said he would continue to push for a quick resolution.

“The situation is bad,” he said. The regulators, he added, “should put up a temporary fund and deal with the accounting later. They need to make sure that clients feel safe in segregated accounts.”

Michael Shore, a spokesman for the CME Group, would not comment on the feasibility of doing this.

A spokesman for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would not comment on the issue of the segregated accounts and referred all inquiries to the MF Global page on its Web site.

One small hedge fund has essentially gone out of business as a result of MF Global’s collapse. A woman who until this week worked as the office administrator at the hedge fund said all of the fund’s $30 million was at MF Global.

“By Tuesday, everyone was just staring at screens,” said the woman, who wanted to be identified only as Sandy L. for fear of upsetting her former boss. “He said, ‘We can’t access money; I can’t even give you a final paycheck.’ ”

She was let go on Thursday. “Some of the traders are sticking it out,” she said. “Everyone we call at MF Global picks up the phone. They answer, but they have nothing to say.”
164 2011-11-05 Behind a stout defense and three field goals, L.S.U. beat Alabama in overtime to remain undefeated. Oklahoma State survived numerous comebacks from Kansas State and escaped with a victory....
165 2011-11-05 Keeping a close watch on today's college football action, beginning at noon and going through L.S.U. and Alabama at 8 p.m....
166 2011-11-05 Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, reported a smaller third-quarter profit on Friday after losing more than $2 billion on derivatives related to stock market performance.

That was nearly three times what Berkshire lost on the same instruments a year ago. Buffett has sharply criticized derivatives in general, but has said these particular contracts were safe and would ultimately be lucrative.

But Berkshire was hurt, like many other insurance companies in particular, by sharp declines in a broad range of market values. In a quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Berkshire said the indexes covered by the contracts fell 11 to 23 percent in the quarter.

Berkshire reported a net profit of $2.28 billion, or $1,380 for each Class A share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $2.99 billion, or $1,814 a share.

Cash at the end of the quarter was $34.78 billion, down from $47.89 billion at the end of June. During the third quarter, Berkshire financed the purchase of the chemical maker Lubrizol and a $5 billion investment in Bank of America, which accounted for the decline.

Operating income rose across segments, except for the company’s finance business, where it fell slightly.

Profit in the insurance business rose as a rebound in reinsurance results offset sharp declines at the auto insurer Geico.
167 2011-11-05 And then there is the fact that most of the firm’s investments were not in securities, where the dollar value of an investment is clear, but in commodities, where investors put up what is essentially a down payment on what a commodity will be worth on a future date. Sorting out who is owed what will also take time.

While MF Global may not have been a household name, it was respected in the commodities and futures markets. It provided the essential service of holding money and clearing trades.

The firm’s brand name was why smaller clients said they did not worry whether their money would be safe. Mark Tucker, who lives in the English seaside village of West Runton, population 1,633, manages rental properties by day. But he said he had been trading options for the last 18 years and had $50,000 with MF Global (and another $50,000 with another clearinghouse).

He has not had access to his account since Monday and was worried about some of the options he bought before the firm’s bankruptcy filing. They are bets that the prices of crude oil, coffee and sugar will fall. “It’s not a comfortable position,” he said. “By definition, the potential for losses on short options is limitless.”

Like many clients, he is trying to separate rumor from reality. He had heard that his account would be moved to another broker. He said his broker had been “trying to reassure me the only reason it hasn’t happened is they have 50,000 of these accounts and it should move over in the next 24 to 48 hours, but that’s what they told me 24 to 48 hours ago.”

So do clients of other commodities clearinghouses need to worry about the safety of their money?

SITUATION James W. Giddens, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed and the court-appointed trustee in the case, said his group was working closely with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation to transfer accounts to other commodity brokers. He said clients would be notified “if and when their accounts have been transferred.”

The court has approved the transfer of 50,000 commodities accounts to other brokers because those are the easiest to move and the most likely to be picked up. A spokesman for the trustee said that the selection of which accounts would be moved was led by the CME Group, the giant exchange where MF Global did business. On Friday, the CME Group announced that 15,000 accounts had been moved.

But even the clients whose accounts are transferred will not get all their money back immediately. Given that some of the funds involved are contested, clients will have access to only about two-thirds of their accounts’ value. This is a common practice to ensure that there is some money left to pay claims against MF Global.

MF Global was also a registered broker-dealer, like Fidelity and Schwab. The future of the securities accounts it held is less clear. Stephen Harbeck, chief executive of SIPC, said he believed there were only 6,000 securities accounts. So far, he said, the trustee had not found another home for them because they did not have a large amount of assets and a trading history. In other words, these accounts may not pay large fees and could be more of a hassle than they are worth to another firm.

“If we’re able to find a brokerage firm that is ready and willing and able to take the accounts, the accounts can be transferred quickly,” he said. “The precedent is Lehman Brothers, where we were able to transfer the accounts within seven to 10 days.”

He added, “Failing that, the process can take a few months.”

SIPC offers protection on securities accounts up to $500,000, though it could take years for claims to be paid. There is no equivalent backstop for commodities accounts.

Mr. Gavrylov, chief financial officer of a firm that trades actual commodities in Ukraine, said he had used MF Global for his personal commodity trading, in part, because he felt his money was safe there. “I thought this might happen to me here in Ukraine or in Russia, where the regulation is quite weak,” he said. “But I never thought this could happen with a big broker like MF Global.”

Some bigger money managers said they were confident that they would eventually get their money back, but they have the financial wherewithal to wait years and remain in business.

An investment adviser in Chicago who was not authorized to speak to the media said his firm, which manages about $400 million, had had over $5 million at MF Global but had been able to transfer most of it out last week.

“We got out because of word of mouth only,” he said. “No one knew anything specific. They just knew the run was on and we got out.”

PRECEDENT Jim Feltman, senior managing director at Mesirow Financial Consulting, said the collapse of MF Global may proceed along the lines of the 2007 bankruptcy of the Sentinel Management Group. Sentinel presented itself as a cash management firm that would keep money safe for commodity traders. But the company was using those funds as collateral to borrow money and invest in riskier securities. When those bets failed, the firm froze $1.6 billion in customer assets.

“In the Sentinel case, some funds were released quickly, but others were subject to cross claims and litigation,” said Mr. Feltman, who worked on the case for the court-appointed trustee. Four years later, he said, many people still do not have their money back.

He noted that recovering clients’ money was not as easy as presenting their account statement when client money may have been mixed in with the firm’s capital.

“If you think you have $1 million of ABC securities in your account, it may turn out that there are $1 million of those securities in your account. But it could also turn out that that $1 million of securities weren’t in your account the day before but in someone else’s account,” Mr. Feltman said. “What’s going on right now is the sorting out that gives rise to ownership.”

Sean O’Malley, a partner in the capital markets division at the law firm White & Case, said that protections were not as strong as investors thought when something went wrong. While there has been much talk about segregating assets, he said, assets are really held in one big pool, and it is only through accounting that they are assigned to a particular account.

”You’re really relying on the operational strength and integrity of the broker dealer,” he said. “So if the back office at MF Global isn’t properly segregating the assets, I don’t know if the customers can do anything about it.”

RESOLUTION Mr. Koutoulas, the commodities trading adviser from Chicago, flew to New York early this week to file an emergency motion in federal court asking that all accounts be unfrozen and immediately transferred in full to other clearinghouses. He argued that a failure to do so would cause investors at other firms to worry about the safety of their money. The motion was denied late Thursday, but he said he would continue to push for a quick resolution.

“The situation is bad,” he said. The regulators, he added, “should put up a temporary fund and deal with the accounting later. They need to make sure that clients feel safe in segregated accounts.”

Michael Shore, a spokesman for the CME Group, would not comment on the feasibility of doing this.

A spokesman for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would not comment on the issue of the segregated accounts and referred all inquiries to the MF Global page on its Web site.

One small hedge fund has essentially gone out of business as a result of MF Global’s collapse. A woman who until this week worked as the office administrator at the hedge fund said all of the fund’s $30 million was at MF Global.

“By Tuesday, everyone was just staring at screens,” said the woman, who wanted to be identified only as Sandy L. for fear of upsetting her former boss. “He said, ‘We can’t access money; I can’t even give you a final paycheck.’ ”

She was let go on Thursday. “Some of the traders are sticking it out,” she said. “Everyone we call at MF Global picks up the phone. They answer, but they have nothing to say.”
168 2011-11-05 A 25-year-old Tibetan activist suffered minor leg burns when he set himself on fire on Friday outside the Chinese Embassy in India, following a wave of deadly self-immolations by ethnic Tibetans in China protesting repression. The activist, Sherab TseDor, who was born in India, sent a note calling for an end to a Chinese crackdown in Tibet, said Youdon Aukatsang, a member of Parliament for Tibet’s government in exile, which operates from a northern Indian hill town.
169 2011-11-05 Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett, reported a smaller third-quarter profit on Friday after losing more than $2 billion on derivatives related to stock market performance.

That was nearly three times what Berkshire lost on the same instruments a year ago. Buffett has sharply criticized derivatives in general, but has said these particular contracts were safe and would ultimately be lucrative.

But Berkshire was hurt, like many other insurance companies in particular, by sharp declines in a broad range of market values. In a quarterly report to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Berkshire said the indexes covered by the contracts fell 11 to 23 percent in the quarter.

Berkshire reported a net profit of $2.28 billion, or $1,380 for each Class A share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $2.99 billion, or $1,814 a share.

Cash at the end of the quarter was $34.78 billion, down from $47.89 billion at the end of June. During the third quarter, Berkshire financed the purchase of the chemical maker Lubrizol and a $5 billion investment in Bank of America, which accounted for the decline.

Operating income rose across segments, except for the company’s finance business, where it fell slightly.

Profit in the insurance business rose as a rebound in reinsurance results offset sharp declines at the auto insurer Geico.
170 2011-11-05 “Mirror Worlds may have painted an appealing picture for the jury,” Judge Davis wrote, “but it failed to lay a solid foundation sufficient to support important elements it was required to establish under the law.”

When Joseph Diamante, the lead lawyer for Mirror Worlds, called his client about the decision, he was distraught at having to deliver such bad news. But Professor Gelernter gently said, “Joe, I’ve been through worse.”

The bomb that exploded in June 1993 blinded Professor Gelernter in one eye and severely damaged his right hand, which he covers with a glove. He suffered extensive internal injuries as well, and a legacy of surgeries and chronic pain.

But, as Mr. Diamante learned, David Hillel Gelernter does not let trouble daunt him. He sent an upbeat e-mail to colleagues less than two months after the bombing that said, “All in all, I am the luckiest man alive (emphasis on alive). Surviving the explosion was evidently a pretty neat trick on my part,” he wrote, and joked that in computer science, “one decent typing hand and an intact head is all you really need.”

Long comfortable in the academic realm, where his work anticipated the interactivity of the World Wide Web and cloud computing, he tried business. Mirror Worlds (the name came from one of his offbeat books about adapting technology to people instead of the other way around) offered a way to break out of the numberless files and folders that clutter computer desktops and make information hard to find. The product, Scopeware, created a stream of varied documents — word-processing files, e-mail, calendar items and presentations — in a row of icons stretching into the past and future. Users could slide the icons back and forth to view them. George Gilder, the technology analyst, called it “elegant, easy, natural and beautiful,” and predicted, “It will prevail.”

It did not, at least as part of Mirror Worlds. The company marketed its product to businesses and state agencies across the country, but sales never really took off, and the company closed its doors in 2004.

From 2005 on, Apple introduced new versions of its software, and elements of three fundamental new technologies — Spotlight, Cover Flow and Time Machine — looked and behaved more than a little like Professor Gelernter’s brainchildren. Mirror Worlds, now owned by a hedge fund, sued Apple in 2008 in Tyler, Tex., a place with a reputation for friendliness toward infringement claims.

Among the documents obtained from Apple was the e-mail Mr. Jobs sent in 2001 to his lieutenants after seeing an article in The New York Times about Scopeware.

“Please check out this software ASAP,” he wrote. “It may be something for our future, and we may want to secure a license ASAP.”

An Apple executive at the time said in a deposition that “this was the first time I recall having received a specific mail to look at a company or its technology” from Mr. Jobs. Apple subsequently met with Mirror Worlds, but nothing came of the discussions.

Jeanne C. Fromer, a patent law expert at Fordham Law School in New York, called the e-mail from Mr. Jobs “as close as you get to a smoking gun.” Peter J. Toren, a patent litigator, summed up with a single word: “Wow.”

The jury seemed to agree.

The enormous verdict pushed a hot button in the technology world, where those who sue technology companies are often derided as greedy patent trolls. But Mr. Toren said Professor Gelernter is “not a patent troll — this is clearly a brilliant guy” who “clearly had a case.” The rumpled scholar sat discussing the dispute on a recent afternoon in his high-ceilinged living room, which was crowded with books and his paintings. A parrot named Ike provided the occasional squawk, and sunlight streamed over the 400 pipes of an organ that his older son, Daniel, bought and rebuilt by hand after discovering it, unused, in the basement of Yale’s Woolsey Hall. On Professor Gelernter’s desk sat a large-screen iMac.

Of Mr. Jobs, he spoke of a kinship. “He was, above all, a designer. I am, above all, a painter. I care about aesthetics.” One of the greatest joys of the long recovery from “when I was blown up,” he said, was realizing that he could paint with his left hand.

As for the money, he said he did not know precisely what his share of any verdict might be. “I have 2 percent of something,” he said. As much as he acknowledges that the money matters, what he wants most of all, he said, is to see the record reflect his role. “I know my ideas — our ideas — when I see them on a screen,” he said.

“Whatever happens in the end with the appeal, the six months of vindication between the jury verdict and the judge’s decision were worth many lifetimes of some cheaper pleasure.”
171 2011-11-05 MOSCOW (AP) — Six men who lived in cramped, windowless compartments for more than 17 months to simulate a mission to Mars emerged Friday from their capsules, looking haggard but all smiles, and dreaming of lying in the sun, taking long strolls and driving fast cars.

Organizers said the 520-day experiment was the longest mock space mission ever, measuring human responses to the confinement, stress and fatigue of a round trip to Mars, minus the weightlessness. They described it as a vital part of preparations for a mission to the planet, even though it may be decades away because of huge costs and technological challenges.

The facility at the Institute for Medical and Biological Problems in Moscow, Russia’s premier space medicine center, included living compartments the size of a bus, connected with several other similarly sized modules for experiments and exercise.

The crew of three Russians, one Frenchman, an Italian-Colombian man and a Chinese man carefully descended a metal ladder on Friday to a greeting from a crowd of officials and journalists.

“The international crew has completed the 520-day experiment,” the team leader, Alexey Sitev, told Russian space officials. “The mission is accomplished. The crew is in good health and is ready for new missions.”

Organizers said each crew member would be paid about $100,000, except for the Chinese researcher, whose compensation has not been disclosed by officials from his country.
172 2011-11-05 It’s not that trying to find ways to improve ourselves is a bad thing — not at all. “A man’s reach should exceed his grasp,” the poet Robert Browning wrote. But when we’re constantly reaching rather than occasionally being satisfied with what we have in front of us, that’s a recipe for perpetual dissatisfaction.

“We grew up with the idea that we can do anything,” said Hollee Schwartz Temple, a professor of law at West Virginia University and co-author of “Good Enough Is the New Perfect” (Harlequin, 2011). “But we took that to mean that we have to do everything. And many women took it as you have to do everything perfectly.”

Ms. Temple and her co-author, Becky Beaupre Gillespie, a former journalist, surveyed about 1,000 mothers in their 30s and 40s nationwide and interviewed about 100 for their book. They found that the women broadly fell into two categories: “never enoughs” and “good enoughs.”

Never-enough women felt they had to be the best at everything and often agreed with the sentiment that “I need to be a superstar even if it kills me,” Ms. Temple said.

Those in the good-enough category were, as is self-evident, fine with not being the best as long as they felt they were doing pretty well. But more important than how these women described themselves was how they described their lives.

“The never-enoughs more often described their marriages as poor, or even a disaster,” Ms. Temple said. “The good-enoughs were more satisfied and happier in their marriages. And they were just as likely to advance in their careers as the never-enoughs.”

None of this may seem particularly new. You can’t have it all. Perfection is the enemy of the good. But the struggle to find the balance between stagnation and stress — sinking into a rut or racing on the hamster wheel — resonates even more now in these economically down times, when even your best efforts don’t seem to be reaping the rewards you expected.

“In our culture, there are so many different messages about being successful, and we try to implement all of them,” Ms. Gillespie said. “We need the courage to choose which definition of success we want.”

And the courage to realize that we may explore and seek, but there are often no answers — or not the ones we want, said Ms. Moeller, who wrote the book “Waiting for Jack” (Morgan James Publishing, 2010) about her attempts to get in contact with Jack Canfield, author of “Chicken Soup for the Soul” (Heath Communications Inc., 1993). The book’s title and theme refer to her realization that she, like so many people, was waiting for someone to provide the answers instead of looking inside herself.

“It’s natural for a lot of people to search for something more,” Ms. Moeller said. “Or something happens and they want to make sense of it.”

But we can’t go around with the idea that “one day I’ll arrive; one day I’ll be whole,” she said. “It’s an illusion that one day I’ll be fixed.”

Such constant searching, she said, leads to a sense that you’re waiting to live your life rather than living it. Or you’ll feel that you’re always falling short, because rarely is the road to self-improvement easy or straightforward, and it’s certainly not the same for everyone.

On her blog, Ms. Moeller listed, somewhat tongue in cheek, the signs of a self-help junkie, including these:

¶ “You could own a small island in the Caribbean for the amount of money you have spent on seminars, retreats, coaches, workshops and books, and yet you are still not satisfied.”

¶ “After each course you take, you claim that you now know that you are perfect just as you are, but then you hear about this new course that really sounds perfect and you secretly think, maybe this one will be IT.”

Trying to figure out ways to make ourselves better is nothing new. Dale Carnegie’s seminal “How to Win Friends & Influence People,” was first published in 1936. The first 12-step program, Alcoholics Anonymous, began a year before that in 1935.

This striving for self-improvement and the belief that we can all achieve success if we just work hard enough and figure out the right path, has political, not just personal, ramifications.

David Brooks, a New York Times columnist, wrote in a 2003 Op-Ed page column that Americans “always had a sense that the great opportunities lie just over the horizon, in the next valley, with the next job or the next big thing,” adding, “None of us is really poor; we’re just pre-rich.”

That idea that we can all potentially occupy the executive suite is one of the reasons that Americans have been less ready than some other cultures to protest income inequality, said Daniel Letwin, an associate professor of history at Pennsylvania State University.

But Occupy Wall Street and its offshoots may indicate a sea change.

“Clearly, throughout U.S. history there’s been two competing streaks among Americans — acceptance of, even admiration for the wealthy, when people buy into notions of fluid mobility and equal opportunity, and indignation when the inequalities of wealth and power become too grotesque, when the prospects for ordinary people stall no matter how hard they’re trying, and the system seems rigged,” Professor Letwin said.

Occupy Wall Street can be seen both as a rebellion and as an acknowledgment that most of us won’t ever reach the pinnacles of power — and perhaps don’t even want to, Ms. Temple said.

The reality, she said, is “a lot of people are finding that ‘I don’t want to aspire to what I always thought I wanted to aspire to.’ ”

Of course, I still hope one day to grow the beautiful tomatoes and tasty zucchini and cook up lovely meals with my homegrown bounty. It’s not an impossible dream. But I’ll put aside the composting for now and leave the television where it is. After all, as we’ve learned, there’s no point in pushing this self-improvement thing too far.
173 2011-11-05 Ruth Madoff spoke out, the crisis in Europe took new turns and Groupon finally went public....
174 2011-11-05 Thomas de Zengotita, author of “Mediated: How the Media Shapes Our World and the Way We Live in It,” contends that the fascination with Ms. Kardashian and other reality stars is not evidence of the decline of Western culture, as tempting as that thought might be. Instead, he says, the growing sophistication of viewers allows them to watch reality television on several different levels.

“Why reality TV shows have gone so far is that, in the broadest possible sense, it is about us,” Mr. de Zengotita said.

First, he said, there is the simple identification with the interactions between Ms. Kardashian; her sisters; their manager/mother, Kris Jenner; and their beleaguered stepfather, Bruce Jenner, who used to be known as America’s greatest decathlete.

That sense was very much in evidence on Thursday at Dash, the Manhattan boutique owned by the Kardashian sisters, where there is sometimes a line to get in (but, for the record, no 72-day return policy).

“They remind me of my own family,” said Melissa Porter, 26, of Scherer, Ind., who said she sometimes teased her mother the same way the Kardashian sisters tease their mother.

Before posing for a photo outside Dash, her friend Tyne Pierce, 25, of Clearwater, Fla., had another explanation for the fame of the runaway newlywed, one that some E! executives have privately echoed this week. “You can get wrapped up in wedding hype,” she said, standing next to her husband, who just smiled silently.

There is another level of viewing, Mr. de Zengotita said: envy for the lives of the rich and famous. Running concurrently with envy is the urge to mock the wealth and spectacle of the Kardashian lives as the sisters move from party to party, product placement to product placement.

It was this level that inspired wits like Mr. Rushdie to render his take on the wedding mess in limerick:

was krushed like a kar in a krashian

why kan’t I keep my share?

And it prompted the Toronto political writer Andrew Coyne to dust off the Edwardian form the clerihew:

Was a slave to her passion

Or perhaps for an hour.

For Ms. Kardashian’s television home, the E! network, the explosion of interest is further proof of the triumph of reality television, which began as an inexpensive gimmick but has now conquered the airwaves and beyond.

In the United States, celebrity culture has long been carefully manufactured by Hollywood, but now TV fans scan Us Weekly, In Touch and even People magazine for the latest off-the-air exploits of the teen moms, desperate housewives and even more desperate bachelorettes.

On the day of the divorce announcement, St. Martin’s Press shipped 100,000 more copies of the sisters’ best-selling book, “Kardashian Konfidential,” updated with wedding photos.

For magazines and network television, reality stars are the ultimate supply-driven phenomenon: an endless supply of attention-seeking semistars to fill up pages and hours. Best of all, they usually won’t sue.

But one wonders whether Ms. Kardashian violated the basic code of the reality star by so quickly announcing the divorce.

And so the search for meaning began. Has she betrayed her many fans by choosing personal happiness over show business or has she revealed that the marriage itself was just one more ratings gimmick?

With Ms. Kardashian in Australia this week, where she was mobbed by the news media and fans, Ms. Jenner — who is promoting a book of her own — found herself trying to convince Kardashian-watchers that they hadn’t watched a fictional fairy tale.

It “certainly wasn’t a sham,” and “certainly wasn’t for TV,” she said on the “Today” show on Wednesday, on NBC, a sister company of the E! network. “We have enough going on on our show that we don’t have to make things up.”

In three weeks, a new season of one of the family’s shows — “Kourtney & Kim Take New York” — will start on E!, and viewers will see some of the turmoil within the brief marriage — that is, if they haven’t tired of reading about it online and in print first. All the while, the debate will rage on.

“I believe Kim K married for love, or what she thought was love,” wrote one commenter on YouBeMom.com, a message board for parents, in an attempt to be sympathetic. “think she’s just dumb as a brick when it comes to that.”

But another commenter wrote: “Used to kind of enjoy the Kardashian show, fun, guilty pleasure, but now I’m really turned off by how blatantly exploitative and gauche they are. Won’t be watching any more.”

The lesson for reality stars might be this: Fans may love reality as long as it’s not too real.
175 2011-11-05 6:20 p.m. | Updated      LONDON - Royal Bank of Scotland on Friday reported a 63 percent drop in operating profit, to 267 million, or $428 million, in the three months through September as volatility in European financial markets continued to hit ...
176 2011-11-05 The conductor James Levine is withdrawing from Wagner's ''Gotterdammerung,'' the final installment of the Metropolitan Opera's new ''Ring'' cycle, as he continues to recover from back surgery prompted by a fall, the Met said on Friday. Fabio Luisi...
177 2011-11-05 A year out from Election Day: an eon in political time, sufficient to alter circumstances substantially for or against either party. But Friday's tepid jobs report brings a fresh reminder of the stubborn difficulty President Obama and his team fac...
178 2011-11-05 The hits keep coming for private equity firms, as Kohlberg Kravis Roberts can attest.     The private equity giant said on Friday that it lost $621.7 million for its third quarter, as it marked down the value of its portfolio companies low enough ...
179 2011-11-06 The Stone is a forum for contemporary philosophers and other thinkers on issues both timely and timeless.
180 2011-11-06 The Stone is a forum for contemporary philosophers and other thinkers on issues both timely and timeless.
181 2011-11-06 And the ups and downs of the Greek crisis have provided the impetus for the risk-on, risk-off trading that has dominated financial markets worldwide.

Quite often these days, the tone on Wall Street has been set by the frantic efforts to stave off a financial calamity in Europe. The uncertainty has been buffeting the American economy as well, as Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last week.

“Most notably,” Mr. Bernanke said, “concerns about European fiscal and banking issues have contributed to strains in global financial markets, which are likely to have adverse effects on confidence and growth.” He added that the Fed remained ready to intervene further, if needed.

Despite these problems, Mr. Bernstein says, investors should be focusing on the handsome profits that American companies are churning out. But he says it’s understandable that people are fixated on the immediate crisis in Greece. So he turns to the Greek bond as a back-of-the-envelope indicator. What’s his logic?

As he sees it, the sinking market price for those bonds tells him that the Greek bailout deal, if it holds together, will be extremely “bullish short term for banks,” and therefore “bullish short term for the stock market in the United States, too.” But in the slightly longer term, however, it will also be bearish for both. Why?

A “voluntary” 50 percent haircut — or discount — for those bonds was part of the fragile settlement worked out by European leaders late last month. The current market price amounts to a much higher de facto discount of about 70 percent, so if the European settlement holds, it will be a “very good deal” for bond holders — that is, banks, he said — and bank  shares have often dominated the American stock market.

Slightly longer term, though, the pricing discrepancy implies that the European deal does not adequately account for the reduced value of Greek debt.

“Ultimately, the markets will be skeptical about any deal like this, because the debt has not been written down sufficiently,” he says. “It’s bearish longer term because it suggests that this crisis isn’t close to being over.”

Because prospects for a short-term settlement of the crisis grew shakier in the last week, he says, the implications of the sinking Greek bond may not be translatable into anything more than extreme volatility for global markets.  He says the festering European crisis will probably make American stock markets “quite volatile” for some time, despite what he considers excellent prospects for American companies.

For fixed-income investors, meanwhile, the prospects are likewise not entirely positive, in the view of Kathy A. Jones, fixed-income strategist at Charles Schwab. The Fed “will be keeping interest rates very low for some time to come” on government bonds, she says. And in response to an economic slowdown and to the financial crisis in Europe, the European Central Bank lowered interest rates last week.

This environment, she says, “creates real dilemmas for individual investors,” who will need to decide whether to accept these rates or take on additional credit risk in an effort to get higher yields.

“Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions,” she said.

Scott Minerd, chief investment officer at Guggenheim Partners, says he believes that Treasury yields have already bottomed and are beginning to edge upward. The 10-year Treasury note is likely to breach 3 percent by the end of the quarter, he says, though he observes that the Fed appears to be “preparing the way” for further unorthodox policies aimed at keeping rates low and stimulating the economy.

He believes that it makes sense to buy some high-yield bonds. “The market for these securities got hammered so hard in anticipation of recession” that the prices are very attractive, he says.

Like Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Minerd is bullish on American stocks. He says he believes that the economy will muddle along, “and that it will actually turn out to perform better than the market has anticipated,” driving stocks higher.

Still, high volatility is part of his outlook, too, in large part because of the crisis in Europe.

“We’ve reached a stage where we all understand that a train wreck of some sort is coming,” he says. “The question is what will the wreck actually look like, how much damage will it do, and the markets have already priced in a lot of damage.”

As far as the Greek crisis goes, he says, there appears to be worse to come, though it may not be as bad as the market anticipates.
182 2011-11-06 The reports released by the Muskingum County Sheriff’s Office reveal how deputies suddenly found themselves in the middle of a desperate hunt. They also offer clues to Mr. Thompson’s motive.

Mr. Thompson, 62, told a farmhand that he was upset about his marital problems, according to a deputy who talked with the caretaker.

Mr. Thompson and his wife had devoted their lives to the animals. He bought his first exotic animal, a lion cub named Simba, at an auction as a birthday present for his wife about 14 years ago.

A deputy said Mr. Thompson was having a tough time taking care of the animals after spending a year in prison on a gun conviction. He also was deep in debt to the Internal Revenue Service.

The accounts from deputies at the scene show how close the animals came to attacking some of them. The authorities have defended their decision to shoot and kill the animals, saying they were trying to protect the public.

Deputies said they saw Mr. Thompson’s body but could not get near him to determine whether he was alive because a white tiger “appeared to be eating the body,” a report said. The authorities have said that one of the big cats dragged his body and that there was a bite mark on his head.

Other animals near his body started moving toward a pickup truck, from which four sheriff’s deputies armed with rifles began firing.

With only an hour of daylight left and no tranquilizers on hand, they decided that the only option was to kill the animals, Deputy Lawhorne said.

Their main concern appeared to be trying to keep the animals away from several neighboring houses and Interstate 70, according to the reports.

Two deputies shot a pair of lions running near a fence along the highway.

“One of the African lions that we had shot got up and started running towards us,” a deputy said. “At this point, we opened fire on it again, eventually killing it.”

One deputy said he shot a lion after it broke through a fence and raced toward a road. At the same time, he saw other deputies firing at several other lions running through the front yards of neighboring houses.

He then came across a mountain lion that was snarling and showing its teeth.

Once night came, firefighters used thermal-imaging cameras to spot a grizzly bear bounding across a field. Deputies decided to shoot it.

One lion came within three feet of an auxiliary deputy who was trying to close cage doors but did not see that a hole had been cut in the cage, Deputy Lawhorne said.
183 2011-11-06 Public schoolteachers in Illinois do not participate in Social Security, and their pension fund is in precarious shape. Last year the fund reported having just 48 cents for every dollar of benefits it had promised, largely because the state had failed to pay the required amount of money into it for many years.

Lawmakers in Maine recently considered a proposal to enroll more of its government workers in Social Security, but discovered that the transition costs would be crushing.

Mr. Perry is taking a very different approach, saying the law should be changed back to the way it was before 1983, when state and local employers were allowed to join or leave the Social Security program as they wished. Legislation passed that year prohibited public employers from withdrawing from the program once they enrolled in it.

Letting public employees out of the program is only a small part of Mr. Perry’s plan for Social Security. Many of his proposals, which include allowing younger workers to open individual savings accounts within Social Security and gradually raising the program’s retirement age, are more common and have been debated at great length in recent years. His proposal for state and local government workers, though, comes in the midst of a national debate about the retirement benefits of public sector workers.

The potential risk that underfunded pensions pose to both workers and local taxpayers was one of the reasons that President Obama’s bipartisan debt reduction commission — led by Alan K. Simpson, a Republican former senator from Wyoming, and Erskine B. Bowles, a Democrat and former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton — recommended enrolling all newly hired state and local government workers in Social Security after 2020.

Mr. Simpson said in an interview that the panel concluded that this would shore up the trust fund with payroll taxes and give workers in the most distressed pension plans something to fall back on. “State and local plans are shot to hell,” said Mr. Simpson, who added that he had not read Mr. Perry’s plan and had not endorsed a Republican candidate for president.

Enrolling those workers in Social Security would have another benefit, the panel found: the payroll taxes that would be collected would close 8 percent of Social Security’s projected 75-year shortfall. Social Security’s last crisis was resolved in part by bringing the federal work force into the program in 1984.

Adding better-paid state and local workers like teachers and police officers, who make up most nonparticipants today, would give the federal system’s solvency a bigger boost than might be expected. This is because Social Security is set up to shift money toward lower-income people. The better-paid newcomers to the program would tend to add more taxes during their working years, but would not draw out a commensurate amount when they retired.

Many public sector workers who are not in Social Security prefer to remain out of it because they see their pensions as a better deal.

Mr. Perry often points to the example of Galveston County in Texas as a place that opted out of Social Security in favor of a locally run savings plan. Herman Cain, the former pizza executive, has also spoken approvingly of the Galveston plan in several Republican presidential debates.

But they have not mentioned that the Galveston program is actually more expensive than Social Security. Social Security’s contribution rate is 12.4 percent of payroll, with 6.2 percent coming from each worker and 6.2 percent coming from the employer. The Galveston plan’s total contribution rate is 13.9 percent of the payroll, with 6.1 percent coming from each worker, and 7.8 percent from the county — or, more specifically, its taxpayers.

And whether it provides a better benefit is open to debate. Studies of the Galveston plan have determined that it provides a better deal for some high-income workers, but a worse one for low- and middle-income workers. And its benefits are not protected from inflation, as Social Security’s are.

Still, retirees there do not depend solely on that plan for their retirements; they are also enrolled in the Texas County and District Retirement System, which combines features of a 401(k)-type savings plan and a traditional defined-benefit pension plan.

The plan promises workers a 7 percent return on their contributions, as well as an employer “match” when they retire, usually at age 60. The board, made up of people appointed by the governor, has invested aggressively to meet that goal, including in its portfolio junk bonds, distressed-debt partnerships, private equities, commodities and a big assortment of hedge funds.

If a county comes up short, the state gives it the right to reduce its workers’ benefits, said Amy Bishop, a spokeswoman. “That’s really the key,” she said. “They can lower those benefits.”
184 2011-11-06 As a Texas governor and presidential candidate, Rick Perry has repeatedly turned to the marketplace for policy solutions to health care and retirement security.

But as a private citizen, Mr. Perry has generally relied on the government.

Mr. Perry is a member of what the Texas Employees Retirement System calls “the elected class,” which enjoys the kind of lucrative pension benefits that have all but disappeared from the private sector.

As a member, Mr. Perry, 61, could have retired at age 50 with lifetime health care paid for by the state. To the annoyance of his opponents, he is still in office — and every year he stays will benefit him in the long run.

If Mr. Perry retires at the end of his current term, in January 2015, he would be eligible to collect as much as $119,025 a year, according to calculations based on 30 years of elective service and optional provisions. He will also receive Social Security, which could swell his total public pension benefits to more than $140,000 annually.

The state pays 100 percent of state employees’ health insurance, and Mr. Perry, an Air Force veteran, has had access to taxpayer-supported care since he joined the Texas A&M Corps of Cadets in 1968. He is entitled to state-financed health care for the rest of his life and will be eligible for Medicare after his current term expires.
185 2011-11-06 This season, the most successful long-distance kickers, Oakland’s Sebastian Janikowski and Jacksonville’s Josh Scobee, have already made five each. Stenerud’s career field goal percentage was 66.8. Were he kicking this season, that would place Stenerud next to last in success rate, one-tenth of a point ahead of Jay Feely, the Arizona kicker who is having an unusually bad season at 66.7 (his career average is 81.8). Overall field goal percentage this season is 85.9, up from 82.3 last season.

Stenerud’s career kicking percentage is almost 20 percentage points below what Bironas said he was aiming for — about 83 percent — when he was trying to break into the league in 2000. Bironas said kickers now had to make at least 90 percent of their field-goal attempts to be considered for Pro Bowl votes. So far, 10 kickers are making more than 90 percent of their attempts, and 12 are perfect from 50 yards and longer this season.

“The expectation has changed in the league,” said Detroit kicker Jason Hanson, who has made 4 of 5 from 50 yards and beyond. “If they put you out there, you’re supposed to make it. All of a sudden, a 48-yarder has become like from 32. As a kicker, I’m like, wait a minute; this is way different.”

It is so different that kickers and special-teams coaches struggle to pinpoint a reason field goals are being blasted with regularity from distances that coaches, long ill at ease with players so idiosyncratic they sometimes change shoes to do their jobs, used to refuse to consider. Almost everyone agrees, though, that the increase in attempts from at least 50 yards (63 through Week 8 compared with 108 in all of 2010) is likely a reflection of a mind-set shift among coaches. As scoring rises over all, even the most conservative coaches find themselves in a desperate chase for points and are more willing to opt for a longer field goal instead of punting to pin an opponent deep in its own territory.

“We’re playing a riskier game,” Scobee said. “The scoring is higher, points are at a premium and with how good offenses are, pinning on the 10-yard line isn’t necessarily going to prevent them from scoring. Teams are trying to get as many points as possible, whether they’re going for it on fourth down or attempting a 50-yard field goal.”

But explaining why so many players are capable of making those long kicks is more complicated. Unlike the passing game, kicking has not been the beneficiary of rules changes designed to enhance production. In fact, the most significant adjustment on field goals came more than a decade ago, when the N.F.L. began using the so-called K balls, balls used for kicks, designed to stop the wholesale doctoring of footballs by kickers hoping to gain a few extra yards.

To soften the pigskin and make them easier to kick, kickers and their co-conspirators in the equipment room used to pop footballs in the sauna, dunk them in vats of water or overinflate and deflate them. Legend had it that a spin in a microwave oven was also attempted.

There is still the occasional whispered suspicion, but no proof, that doctoring has made a comeback. But a seemingly minor rule change that prevented a defensive lineman from lining up directly across from the long snapper on a field-goal try may have given the success rate a boost. The rule was designed to protect the snapper from being smashed in the head and neck while he was looking between his legs after the snap.

But with many teams carrying long-snapping specialists — who can go to special deep-snapping camps — instead of using their regular center for kicks, and with punters often acting as holders, the snap and placement of the ball on field-goal attempts has become nearly flawless. Because the snapper and holder do not play on offense or defense, they are able to practice together more often with kickers. The result: fewer wobbly snaps, more precise placements and little to throw off the timing of the kicker.

“The snapping has improved,” the Jets’ special-teams coach, Mike Westhoff, said. “You have a really efficient operation. It becomes an efficient battery.”

At the heart of the operation is a kicker who has undergone a physical transformation. Kickers used to be youngsters who wanted to play football, but were not good athletes. Think Garo Yepremian, the Lilliputian Dolphins kicker who knew so little about football that he once exclaimed that he kicked a touchdown.

But kickers, like almost all athletes, have embraced year-round weight lifting and assiduously monitored diets. Kickers spend the off-season working on their lower body and core strength, to improve the torque their bodies generate on kicks.

Hanson compares the advent of the weight-trained kicker to the transformation of the long game in golf when strength training took hold on the PGA Tour. Towering over all kickers is Janikowski, who is 6 feet 2 inches and 250 pounds. Not surprisingly, he has kicked 28 field goals from at least 50 yards in his 12-year career and this year is poised to top his career best of six in a season.

“All the players are getting bigger in the league,” said Bironas, who is 6 feet and 205 pounds. “I might be bigger than some wide receivers and cornerbacks.”

Bironas began playing soccer when he was 4 — they called him Big Leg Bironas — and he started kicking the football as a high school junior. Because of his background, Bironas was a natural at the soccer-style kick that has replaced the straight-on kick.

He walked on and earned a scholarship at Auburn before transferring to Georgia Southern for his senior season. Because big-time college football has become more like the N.F.L. on offense, there is more emphasis placed on kicking than ever before. By the time they get to the N.F.L., kickers are working with gurus in the off-season, who scrutinize and refine their technique.

Long before then, though, the most ambitious young kickers, some just out of grade school, attend specialized youth kicking camps. There, young kickers work out the kinks in their kicking motion and learn how to build strength in their legs long before kickers of earlier generations did.

“I coached high school in the ’70s and early ’80s, and our kicker worked out by himself,” the Jaguars’ special-teams coach, Russ Purnell, said. “Sometimes our kicker was a guy who played soccer and we got him to come over on Friday nights to kick. The camps and instruction are starting in middle school, and obviously a guy who is serious about it, he goes to camps and is working with really qualified guys around the country.

“The kids growing up now, they see an N.F.L. kicker can make good living, and not beat your head in making tackles. A lot of guys who are really good athletes become kickers; all these guys played another position in high school.”

This season, then, may be only the beginning of a change to kicking similar to the upheaval in the record books on offense and defense. With a successful 45-yard field goal now considered all but a given, how much farther can the best kickers go?

“It’s definitely discouraging,” Hanson said, laughing. “You kick some long ones and you feel good about yourself. Then you look at the stats, and you’re not an exception. Darn it. It’s a good ego check.”
186 2011-11-06 “The music is larger than the form,” he added. “There are so many stories to tell, and I consider the staging of the music a way of composing.”

Some of these projects involve a lot of work — “Brooklyn Babylon,” particularly. But an institutional frame has developed for them. Over the last decade a circuit of nonprofit theaters and other organizations interested in staging projects like this one has taken shape across the country; financial support can come from arts grants and universities for multidisciplinary work.

The Croatian-born Mr. Zezelj, 42, left Zagreb in the early ’90s and now lives in the Lefferts Gardens section. He makes blocky images, often of cityscapes, often with rollers and acrylic paint. His career path and means of support are in graphic novels; one of his recent projects was “Luna Park,” written with the author Kevin Baker and published by Vertigo, the adult-reader wing of DC Comics. But since March he has been creating animations for “Brooklyn Babylon” in his small, windowless studio in the Gowanus section.

He has had some experience with this kind of thing before, having painted onstage last year with his wife, the saxophonist and composer Jessica Lurie, in a piece called “Once.” When Mr. Argue approached him, Mr. Zezelj hadn’t met him or heard his music and wasn’t very interested in big-band music. Nor was he interested in mixing abstract music with abstract painting; he’d seen some of that, when he lived in Seattle, and didn’t like it. “It just seemed too easy and didn’t really make any sense,” he said. But he liked the sound of Mr. Argue’s record, “Infernal Machines.”

“When I listen to music and like it, I see images,” he said recently. “With his music I really did have imagery: black and white, a lot of shadow, a lot of references to the ’20s and ’30s, something that is fairly close to a visual aesthetic that I like — silent movies, the Russian avant-garde, German Expressionism, old American movies.”

Mr. Argue, 36, originally from Vancouver and now living in the Carroll Gardens section, has also been working on the piece steadily since early this year. He has never written a work of this size, and his only experience with writing in suite form was an attempt at music school. Normally his music isn’t this programmatic.

“When I write, I certainly have an abstract emotional arc,” he explained, “but it’s never been specifically envisioning characters doing things.” But he had definite feelings about a collaboration: the story must be the first priority.

“I didn’t want to do music with somewhat disconnected abstract imagery,” he said. “I’ve seen a lot of music with video, where there’s no perceptible dialogue going on between the visuals and the music. It just seems like they’re very separate, working on separate wavelengths, and any connectivity is incidental. That was the opposite of what I wanted to do.”

They are working with a story, written by Mr. Zezelj, in eight chapters. Within each chapter, Mr. Zezelj generated about 30 images and sent them to Mr. Argue, who then wrote music appropriate to their meaning and sequence. The work is divided into 30-second sections of animation, so that if the live band plays too fast through one part, the wait before the next section of animation arrives won’t last too long. Normally such time-specific work for music and visuals, whether for television commercials or anything else, is done with the help of a click track, which allows perfect automated synchronization between sound and image. Mr. Argue decided at the beginning that he wouldn’t use one. “It has to feel that it’s all one thing,” he explained, “that it’s not the music accompanying the video.”

It’s not insignificant that both artists have come to Brooklyn from other countries; neither has gotten over seeing it with fresh eyes and a sense of myth. (That perspective particularly informs this project, about an immigrant whose last name translates from Russian roughly as “one without a home.”) But both have a desire to communicate as directly as they can.

Mr. Argue is trying to make his work connect to the larger culture he’s known since he arrived here; he started his band in spaces outside the jazz circuit, like CBGB and Bell House in Brooklyn, and has kept a line to his listeners by hammering away at a blog full of opinions about music and politics. And Mr. Zezelj was influenced by experimental and satirical European comic artists from the late 1970s and early ’80s, particularly from Italy and France, and felt a sense of urgency from them; interacting with his own generation, rather than with the studied and imagined past, drove his interest in art.

“To sit in galleries or people’s bedrooms,” he said, “seems like a sad destiny for a painting.” The same could be said for a piece of work like “Brooklyn Babylon,” which so far has no other performances scheduled beyond Brooklyn. Even if it has a future life through interactive technology, the live performance will be its irreducible identity.
187 2011-11-06 Before starting to compose he visited Colorado City, Ariz., the town on the Arizona-Utah border that is home to a fundamentalist settlement. The cast also did major research; Caitlin Lynch, who sings Eliza, said Mr. Muhly had mailed her a package with books and research materials.

The Arizona and Utah landscapes influenced libretto and music. Mr. Muhly said he “wanted to make a statement of Americana,” and composed a score that reflects Copland and evokes Messiaen’s “Des Canyons aux Étoiles,” a homage to the American West. Mr. Muhly said he also wanted to convey a “sense of continuity and enormous vistas, and that comes from La Monte Young and early Reich and Glass.”

Minimalist composers like Steve Reich and Philip Glass are just a few of Mr. Muhly’s eclectic influences, which also include 16th- and 17th-century liturgical music, Britten and Bjork. He is a huge fan of Meredith Monk, whom he recalled meeting about six months ago in New York. “I was so jeeped up,” he said. “I was jet-lagged and on some insane medication I’m no longer on, and I had just played the hardest piece of Glass ever” on the piano. “She was so Zen I got even more agitated.”

The only child of an artist and a filmmaker, Mr. Muhly received a degree in English literature from Columbia in 2003 and a master’s degree in composition from the Juilliard School in 2004. At Juilliard he studied with Christopher Rouse and John Corigliano. A former choirboy, Mr. Muhly has demonstrated a particular gift for choral writing, evident in the striking ensemble number that opens “Dark Sisters.”

Mr. Corigliano described his former student as “very exuberant” and “extremely prolific.”

“He has a wonderful ear and a real knack for orchestration,” Mr. Corigliano said. “His curiosities are immense.”

Mr. Muhly’s career quickly blossomed after Juilliard. His mildly manic air doubtless stems from juggling a daunting number of high-profile projects, including the two operas; a cello concerto to be given its premiere in London in March; and arrangements of traditional songs for a concert by the remarkable countertenor Iestyn Davies in Weill Recital Hall on Dec. 15.

Mr. Muhly, who lives in Chinatown, sometimes suffers from writer’s block. “But I can be in denial about it if I have other stuff to do,” he said, laughing. “I have my publishers put due dates a month early. I am absolutely foolable in that way.”

He composed “Dark Sisters” at the same time as “Two Boys,” a collaboration between the English National Opera and the Metropolitan Opera. It was a challenge, he said, to keep the material separate. “Two Boys” — inspired by Internet chat rooms and events that happened in Manchester, England, in 2003 — received its premiere in London in June. The music and the dramatic contour were criticized in some quarters for being bland.

The opera will undergo significant revisions before its debut at the Met in the 2013-14 season. Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, described Mr. Muhly as “one of the most brilliant composing talents out there,” with “a real knack writing music for voices.”

“The whole reason why we wanted the opera to begin in London was because there is never as much rehearsal time as we would like for a new production at the Met,” Mr. Gelb added. “So London was really the equivalent of doing something out of town. We expected that it would be a constructive and instructive experience.”

Mr. Gelb said Mr. Muhly and Craig Lucas, the librettist, will aim to strengthen the lead character of Detective Inspector Anne Strawson, who tries to solve an attempted murder case in which a teenager has stabbed a slightly younger boy. (The English mezzo-soprano Alice Coote will sing the detective at the Met.)

The team will also try to render the beginning and end of the opera “more dramatically effective,” Mr. Gelb said, and make changes “that will compel the audience into the story” and “create more dynamic range musically.”

Mr. Muhly found it challenging to write the arias of “Dark Sisters,” which, he said, is more “in the tradition of bel canto, where what you design the aria around is making the voice sound beautiful,” something he didn’t do in “Two Boys,” which has a more abstract structure.

Neal Goren, the artistic director of Gotham Chamber Opera, said he had asked Mr. Muhly to write something “character based and emotional, where everyone in the audience would empathize with the main character.” Mr. Karam wrote the libretto, and all the roles were cast before Mr. Muhly began composing, a procedure Mr. Goren called “almost unheard of.”

The opera has had an unusually long incubation; the first workshop took place in November 2010. After a staged performance at Hunter College in September, the consensus from both the audience and the artistic team was that Act II sparkled, but Act I could be tightened. So the team looked for better ways to convey the women’s industriousness and “create more activity” in the first scenes, Rebecca Taichman, the director, said.

The long gestation also enabled Mr. Muhly to tailor each part to the singer. “Nico would submit an act,” Mr. Goren said, “and I would say, ‘I think the tessitura is too high or too low for this singer,’ or ‘The glory of her voice is her high notes, so feel free to give her more.’ ”

He recalled that there was originally “a beautiful pianissimo F natural” in one passage for the soprano Jennifer Check, who sings Almera, one of the wives. “Then she sang the most heavenly high A flat you’ve ever heard,” Mr. Goren said. So Mr. Muhly added more high notes for her.

“He was that way with everyone and wanted to show them off,” Mr. Goren added.

Mr. Muhly also made changes to the orchestration after the first reading. Initially “it was minimal and rather severe, then it was wildly enriched,” said Mr. Goren, noting that Mr. Muhly “is very collaborative.”

“He is a problem solver and loves to come up with solutions,” Mr. Goren added.

Eve Gigliotti, who sings the part of Ruth, another wife, said, “Singers have a desperate need to please and to be serving the piece in the way the composer intends.” Mr. Muhly, she continued, “will often joke about how everything has to be exact for classically trained singers, and while he comes from a similar world, he encourages us to free it up a bit.”

When not composing, Mr. Muhly, who calls his workload “a little overwhelming,” cooks obsessively, he said, making “complicated stews.” He is currently enjoying “an amazing Vietnamese cookbook.” He is also a prolific tweeter and blogger. In a recent post he lamented the way the slow-moving record industry, by delaying the release of a work’s recording, curtails the excitement generated by a premiere. Such inaction frustrates composers, who can sometimes really improve their scores only by listening to a recording.

Mr. Muhly, whose life seems to unfold at fever pitch, is also determined to ensure that “Dark Sisters” doesn’t drag.

“I’m kind of obsessed with keeping things moving,” he said. “Death for me is that moment when you’re watching an opera and you’re, like, looking at your watch.”
188 2011-11-06 “CollegeHumor. The Website. The Book” (Da Capo Press, 2011) dips into the archives of the Web site of the same name and compiles staff favorites from the last decade. This psychoanalysis of hand-raising styles is by Susanna Wolff, the articles editor.
189 2011-11-06 Mr. Grazer added: “To resist that, you have to make very hard choices. Most people are too afraid.”

It probably helps that Mr. DiCaprio has managed to retain a mystique about his personal life in the celebrity blogger era. Keeping that distance is something he works on. In an interview, for instance, he didn’t pretend to be a friend the way a lot of stars do. He likes his privacy, but this game also makes his performances more successful; people are more likely to accept him as a larger-than-life character if they don’t have a very clear idea of who he is off screen.

Mr. DiCaprio’s choices may be unusual, but he does have his own version of sticking with what works. The characters are mostly tortured, unsympathetic, larger-than-life guys created with the help of a tiny club of A-list directors, most notably . A urine-collecting Howard Hughes in A Zimbabwean smuggler in A mental patient in A dream extractor in

“Leonardo could make a lot of money making mechanical genre pictures, but he wants to be challenged,” Mr. Eastwood said by telephone. “And it’s much more of a challenge to play someone who doesn’t have the slightest thing in common with you.”

Next on Mr. DiCaprio’s docket is the title role in ’s remake of and he’s ready to play in another Scorsese biopic. “That is in Mr. Scorsese’s hands,” he said of a potential Sinatra film, pausing to pop a wedge of watermelon into his mouth and pour himself another cup of coffee. “I’m always incredibly game for anything that he decides to do.”

“J. Edgar” fits snugly into this canon. The best biopics offer a portrait of person, and all, and invite viewers to make their own judgments about him, and Mr. Eastwood’s film strives to do just that. Hoover is depicted as a brilliant patriot who invented modern forensics and stopped at nothing to protect America through eight presidents and three wars. But the omnipowerful F.B.I. director was an impediment, to put it mildly, to the civil rights movement and worked as hard to distort the truth as he did to collect it (and file it away) to secure his power.

All of that is more or less fact. The treacherous part of “J. Edgar,” written by Dustin Lance Black, an Oscar winner for his screenplay, involves the gray. Was Hoover homosexual? Nobody knows for sure. He certainly had an unusually close relationship with his F.B.I. colleague Clyde Tolson, played in the film by Armie Hammer (“The Social Network”). Even less clear is whether Hoover liked to wear women’s clothes, but Mr. Eastwood and Mr. DiCaprio decided to retain Mr. Black’s artful nod to the rumor.

“Obviously there’s a love story here,” Mr. Eastwood said. “Whether it is a gay love story or something else — well, the audience can interpret it. My intention was to show two men who really love each other, and beyond that it’s none of my business.”

Mr. DiCaprio’s risk taking is cheered by the Hollywood contingent that loves serious films, raising him to the level of deity for his willingness to make the kind of drama that is an endangered species at major studios these days. But a more business-minded crowd — agents, studio chiefs — says taking on all of these biopics is a mistake. The worry is that at some point Mr. DiCaprio will become uninteresting to audiences if he doesn’t pepper his road with a wider variety of roles.

Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of the film studies department at , calls this “the Paul Muni problem.” Muni was perhaps the top actor at in the 1930s, starring as powerful characters in films like He also had a penchant for biographical parts, winning an Oscar for (1936). But he developed a type of obsession with historical roles and faded.

Does Mr. DiCaprio worry about boxing himself in by trying to stay out of the box? If he does, he’s not admitting it. “Never. No. I don’t,” he said quickly.

Although Ms. Basinger raises the point, she’s not terribly worried herself. Few other actors have as much raw talent as Mr. DiCaprio, she noted, and the fact that he has been able to move from the 1980s sitcom “Growing Pains” to “What’s Eating Gilbert Grape” to “Titanic” to bodes well for his future growth.

“He is always very strongly present as DiCaprio, yet he can really make us believe that he is another person,” Ms. Basinger said. “That’s incredible talent.”

Mr. DiCaprio’s Oscar nominations have been for “Gilbert Grape,” which he made when he was 19 years old, “The Aviator” and “Blood Diamond.” Veteran awards strategists (not working on behalf of “J. Edgar”) think he is a shoo-in for a nomination this year, along with for his role in ’s look at a man trying to reconnect with his two daughters after his wife falls into a . But it’s still too soon to tell whether another Academy Awards ceremony is in Mr. DiCaprio’s immediate future.

Will “J. Edgar” be a hit? Also unclear. But Mr. DiCaprio does have an policy in that ever pesky “Titanic,” which will be rereleased in April in 3-D. If a 3-D conversion of can generate almost $100 million, as it did for last month, “Titanic” should easily make a major box office splash.

Mr. DiCaprio said he hadn’t thought about it much and had come to terms with being continually associated with the dopey Jack Dawson. “I’m not haunted by it, but it certainly follows me,” he said. “I’ve been to the Amazon, and people with no clothes on, and I’m not exaggerating, know about that film. I’ve accepted it.”

In person Mr. DiCaprio comes across exactly as you suspect he would. He was tired, arriving at a morning interview the day after flying back to Los Angeles from , where he had been filming “The Great Gatsby.” But he was also playful — those blue eyes may have been jet lagged but they still managed to twinkle — and exceedingly polite.

“Bear with me while I come to my senses,” he said with a smile, adjusting the blue baseball cap he was wearing (backward, naturally). The next minute he was asking whether Sian Grigg, his Hoover makeup artist, could be given recognition in this article. “I’m sure she had multiple trying to get me ready,” he said. “I could be quite squirmy.”

He lit up when talking about movies and people that have influenced him, particularly ’s which he said he discussed with Mr. Eastwood during the making of “J. Edgar.” They wanted to emulate how that 1950 film handled voice-over narration. But Mr. DiCaprio also seemed to go on auto pilot from time to time, answering in the way that actors tend to answer. (Lucky to be employed this, trusting your gut that.) And personal questions are not appreciated. Just why is it that he dates all of those supermodels?

He threw a look — um, duh, wouldn’t you if you could? — and then frosted over. “I’ve never really talked about that kind of stuff, and, very respectfully, I’m going to keep it that way,” he said.

He’d rather stick to “J. Edgar,” particularly that prosthetic makeup, which he found frustrating and claustrophobic. He estimates that he spent about two weeks of the 39-day shoot as “old Hoover,” which required sitting up to five hours a day in Ms. Grigg’s makeup chair. “To stay in character and to fight the urge not to rip it off at times and to not feel trapped inside it is extremely hard,” he said. “It’s like you’ve been slathered in honey and wrapped in a giant duvet.” (Told by a reporter that he had just created a new fantasy for his crazier female fans, he laughed.)

Mr. DiCaprio did months of research to be able to inhabit Hoover fully. He flew to with Mr. Black to tour the Justice Department and one of Hoover’s former homes. Mr. DiCaprio also met with Cartha D. DeLoach, one of the only people still alive who worked closely with Hoover, and taped their hours-long conversation. (Hoover would have been proud.) “I wanted him to tell me how he walked, how he talked, what his hands looked like, what his desk looked like, what was above his desk,” Mr. DiCaprio said.

“The research of these roles is half the fun and half the challenge — maybe more,” he added. “It’s what makes it exciting to me.”

Mr. Black recalled that Mr. DiCaprio dug up obscure film footage of a young Hoover giving speeches and read through transcripts of his Congressional testimony. “I had gone with a more redacted version of those, leaving out some of the more flowery, Hoovery language,” Mr. Black said. “Hoover liked to weave a lot of allusions of slimy, slippery animals into his speeches at that time. Leo loved it. He said, ‘Come on, we’ve got to use this stuff.’ ”

DiCapriophiles will be quick to note that he does have some important things in common with Hoover, at least on the surface. Hoover, for instance, was very close to his mother, played by in the film. Mr. DiCaprio has a tight relationship with his own mom, Irmelin DiCaprio, who raised him in the Loz Feliz section of Los Angeles and drove him around to auditions.

“The difference is that Hoover’s mother told him what to do, and my mother listened to me,” he said. “My mother was incredibly supportive. She wasn’t a stage mom and really didn’t care either way if I was an actor. She just listened to this arrogant little kid saying he wanted to be an actor and didn’t laugh in my face.”

Hoover was also a man who lost himself in his own ego and his need to be the center of attention — something that Mr. DiCaprio, as a student of Hollywood, has to see as a potential fate for himself if he’s not careful. (Hello, “Sunset Boulevard.”)

Then again, maybe not. “It’s not something that I actively worry about,” he said. “I’m fully aware that every career is fleeting in some respects.”
190 2011-11-06 Ford began taking orders for its Focus Electric on Tuesday, pricing the purely electric hatchback at $39,995, inclusive of a $795 destination charge.     While not as closely watched by the industry as the pricing announcements of the Chevrolet Vo...
191 2011-11-06 The Designer     Frith Kerr, the go-to graphic designer for creative clients from the artist Philippe Parreno to the fashion designer Hussein Chalayan, has a way with words....
192 2011-11-06 The Designer     The German-born Tino Seubert, a recent graduate of the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, showed his degree project during the 2011 Milan Furniture Fair....
193 2011-11-06 The Ooh Ooh, I Know!     ME! I KNOW! If you don't call on me, I might die. WHY ARE YOU NOT CALLING ON ME?! I don't remember what I'm raising my hand to say, BUT PLEASE CALL ON ME ANYWAY!!!...
194 2011-11-07 After a news conference at the G20 summit last week, microphones picked up a private conversation between Mr. Obama and Mr. Sarkozy in which they were discussing the Israeli prime minister, a French Web site reported....
195 2011-11-07 After a news conference at the G20 summit last week, microphones picked up a private conversation between Mr. Obama and Mr. Sarkozy in which they were discussing the Israeli prime minister, a French Web site reported....
196 2011-11-07 The News of the World hired a detective to spy on two lawyers representing victims in the News Corporation's phone-hacking scandal, and the lawyers' families, Rupert Murdoch's British newspaper group confirmed Monday....
197 2011-11-07 The News of the World hired a detective to spy on two lawyers representing victims in the News Corporation's phone-hacking scandal, and the lawyers' families, Rupert Murdoch's British newspaper group confirmed Monday....
198 2011-11-07 Michael Kimmelman, The Times's architecture critic, and Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, take a spin on the city's new bike lanes....
199 2011-11-07 Michael Kimmelman, The Times's architecture critic, and Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, take a spin on the city's new bike lanes....
200 2011-11-07 Some of the best illustrations of Patricia Curtan for Alice Waters's restaurant are now available in book form....
201 2011-11-07 Some of the best illustrations of Patricia Curtan for Alice Waters's restaurant are now available in book form....
202 2011-11-07 An exhibition at the National Geographic Museum in Washington features objects from the Staffordshire Hoard, a collection of Anglo-Saxon treasures....
203 2011-11-07 An exhibition at the National Geographic Museum in Washington features objects from the Staffordshire Hoard, a collection of Anglo-Saxon treasures....
204 2011-11-07 The electronics retailer reached a deal with Carphone Warehouse of Britain to take full ownership of a fast-growing American cellphone joint venture and said it would abandon its expansion of big-box stores across Europe....
205 2011-11-07 The electronics retailer reached a deal with Carphone Warehouse of Britain to take full ownership of a fast-growing American cellphone joint venture and said it would abandon its expansion of big-box stores across Europe....
206 2011-11-07 Plus: Do you have more grit than talent?...
207 2011-11-07 Plus: Do you have more grit than talent?...
208 2011-11-07 Why Barney Frank must be demonized....
209 2011-11-07 Why Barney Frank must be demonized....
210 2011-11-07 A new Visa promotion is centered on a sweepstakes that offers a lucky Visa cardholder a chance to attend Super Bowl XLVI in Indianapolis on Feb. 5 with 10 of his or her family and friends....
211 2011-11-07 A new Visa promotion is centered on a sweepstakes that offers a lucky Visa cardholder a chance to attend Super Bowl XLVI in Indianapolis on Feb. 5 with 10 of his or her family and friends....
212 2011-11-07 A simple electric motor system can power a plane as it heads to and from the airport gate, reducing emissions....
213 2011-11-07 A simple electric motor system can power a plane as it heads to and from the airport gate, reducing emissions....
214 2011-11-07 The electronics retailer reached a deal with Carphone Warehouse of Britain to take full ownership of a fast-growing American cellphone joint venture....
215 2011-11-07 The electronics retailer reached a deal with Carphone Warehouse of Britain to take full ownership of a fast-growing American cellphone joint venture and said it would abandon its expansion of big-box stores across Europe....
216 2011-11-07 After weeks of waiting, Missouri’s move to the Southeastern Conference became official Sunday. The SEC released a statement saying the conference’s presidents and chancellors acted unanimously, and Missouri will join the league effective July 1, 2012.

Missouri will be leaving the Big 12, a conference it has been a part of since 1907, including its days as the Big Eight. The addition of Missouri will increase the SEC’s membership to 14 universities, including Texas A&M, which announced last month that it was also leaving the Big 12 for the SEC.
217 2011-11-07 Sung in Punjabi, the language of the most populous and prosperous province, the song delivers biting commentary on the current socio-political milieu of the country, in which religious radicalism and militancy have steadily risen over the years and tolerance for religious minorities is waning.

Just this year, a governor who opposed Pakistan’s contentious blasphemy law was killed by one of his guards. The assassin was then celebrated by many in the country, including lawyers who greeted him with rose petals and garlands.

The song rues the fact that killers and religious extremists are hailed as heroes in Pakistan, while someone like Abdus Salam, the nation’s only Nobel Prize-winning scientist, is often ignored because he belonged to the minority Ahmadi sect.

“Qadri is treated like a royal,” wonders the goofy-looking lead vocalist in the song, referring to Malik Mumtaz Qadri, the elite police guard who killed the governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer, in January after he challenged the blasphemy law.

Another line in the song, “where Ajmal Kasab is a hero,” makes a reference to the only surviving Pakistani gunman involved in the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India. Still another line, “cleric tried to escape in a veil,” alludes to the head cleric of Islamabad’s Red Mosque — which was the target of a siege in 2007 by the Pakistani government against Islamic militants — who tried unsuccessfully to break the security cordon by wearing a veil.

The song even makes fun of the powerful army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, for extending his role for another three years.

Potatoes and eggs “never tasted so good,” wrote Fahd Husain in a commentary on Tuesday in The Daily Times, a newspaper based in Lahore. “They will always be credited for being politically incorrect when most needed, and giving voice to all those Pakistanis who live in fear.”

The popularity of the song on the Internet has made it a sensation across the border in India as well, surprising the band members, who have been incessantly asked whether they feel they have put their lives in danger by ridiculing the mighty.

There are certainly enough provocations to rile nationalists and conservatives. At one point in the music video, the lead singer holds a placard that reads, in English: “This video is sponsored by Zionists.”

The band members chose to upload the song on YouTube instead of handing it to television networks because they said the work was too offbeat and might be censored. Not surprisingly, some have criticized the song and its taunts as pedestrian and in bad taste.

“We were not expecting such a huge response,” said Ali Aftab Saeed, 27, the lead vocalist, who lives in Lahore, a city that is often considered the country’s cultural capital.

He said the assassination of Mr. Taseer was the inspiration for the song and its lyrics.

Resistance poetry and literature are not new to Pakistan, and they raised spirits during the somber years of military dictatorships.

During the protest rallies of the seminal lawyers movement in 2007, when they led the campaign to oust the president, Pervez Musharraf, the lawyers would sing and dance to a poem written by Faiz Ahmad Faiz, considered a giant of Urdu literature. Habib Jalib, another famous Pakistani poet, wrote several poems against Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, the military dictator in the 1980s.

But “Jalib is irrelevant to the generation of urban, young, middle-class kids that Beygairat Brigade is addressing,” said Nadeem Farooq Paracha, a culture critic based in Karachi.

“This band is offering an alternative narrative to the one this generation has grown up on, and provides a counternarrative to establishmentarian and conservative notions of politics, history and society advocated by televangelists, conspiracy theorists and, of course, the right-wing electronic media,” Mr. Paracha added. “And what better and more effective way to do this than by using satire and pop music.”

The band members, on the other hand, have no pretensions of being revolutionaries, activists or intellectuals, though they do feel that the song represents those who do not believe in extremism and want to live peacefully.

“At the end of the day,” said Mr. Saeed, the lead vocalist, “we are just musicians who raised some questions.”
218 2011-11-07 ¶The ExxonMobil Corporation, Irving, Tex., completed a review for its worldwide creative and media accounts by consolidating the assignments at agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies and the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at $300 million. BBDO Worldwide, part of Omnicom, will handle most creative duties, in areas like corporate image, fuels, chemicals and lubricants; BBDO is new to the ExxonMobil agency roster. Another Omnicom agency, DDB Worldwide, will continue to work on retail marketing tasks for the fuels division; DDB and predecessor agencies have worked for Mobil and ExxonMobil since 1949. McCann Erickson Worldwide, which had created ads for chemicals and lubricants for ExxonMobil and predecessor companies since 1912, loses that assignment, and Euro RSCG Worldwide, New York, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas, loses the assignment to create corporate-image ads.

The ExxonMobil media account is being consolidated at Universal McCann, part of the Mediabrands division of Interpublic, which had handled the media duties for chemicals and lubricants. Two agencies will no longer work on ExxonMobil media tasks: OMD, part of Omnicom, which handled fuels, and MPG, part of the Havas Media unit of Havas, which handled corporate image ads.

¶Royal Philips Electronics decided after a review to divide its worldwide media account, with spending estimated at more than $100 million, between the incumbent media agency, Carat, part of the Aegis Media unit of the Aegis Group, and MPG, part of the Havas Media unit of Havas. MPG is being added to the Philips media agency roster to handle the Philips consumer lifestyle businesses, which include consumer electronics, in France, Southern Europe, North America and South America. Carat will continue to handle media duties for the health care and lighting businesses.

¶Linda Yaccarino joined NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, as president for cable entertainment and digital advertising sales, succeeding Dave Cassaro, who left, the company said. Ms. Yaccarino had been executive vice president and chief operating officer for Turner Entertainment advertising sales and marketing and acquisitions at the Turner Broadcasting System unit of Time Warner.

¶Dave DenHerder, chief executive at Direct Impact, a unit of Burson-Marsteller, New York, was named United States chief executive, succeeding Patrick Ford, who was named to a new post at Burson-Marsteller, global vice chairman for client service. Burson-Marsteller is part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP.
219 2011-11-07 European banks are likely to remain wary about lending to one another, analysts predict, and investors will continue to require high interest rates on the billions of euros in loans Italy needs each month to keep its economy afloat.

The yield on 10-year Italian notes has surpassed that on Spanish debt by nearly a full percentage point, reaching 6.51 percent on Monday after leaders at a meeting last week of the Group of 20 nations failed to come up with details on how to stop the European crisis from spreading. The rising yield is troubling because once the interest rates on the debt of Greece and Portugal surpassed 7 percent they shot up far higher, requiring those countries to turn to outside sources of financing. Rates on their debt remain in double digits.

At the end of last month, Italy issued 3 billion euros worth of bonds at an interest rate of more than 6 percent, about 1.5 percentage points higher than it had had to pay as recently as the summer. The extra bond yields are adding as much as 3 billion euros (about $4.1 billion ) annually in additional interest payments, estimates Tobias Blattner, a former economist at the European Central Bank who is an economist at Daiwa Securities in London.

Analysts are concerned that if interest rates on Italian debt keep rising, the country may no longer be able to afford to borrow on the open markets and instead would have to turn to official lenders like the European Union or the International Monetary Fund.

The latest rate “is a warning,” said Mark McCormick, currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. “Seven percent would be a point of no return.”

The European Central Bank is providing another gauge of European stress — the amount of sovereign bonds it is now buying on an almost daily basis. The central bank is trying to provide a market for the debt of countries like Italy and keep interest rates from rising to punishing levels.

This year, the amount of sovereign debt held by the central bank has more than doubled, to over 150 billion euros. Many analysts say they think the bank would have to buy bonds on a much larger scale to stop interest rates from creeping higher, let alone drive yields substantially lower.

European banks, worried about each others’ exposure to bad debts, have demanded an increasingly higher interest rate to lend euros to one another. The rate, measured by a gauge called Euribor-OIS, was 20 basis points as recently as June, but has since jumped to 90 to 100 basis points. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.) The current rate, however, is still far below levels in 2008 and 2009 during the financial crisis, when it reached more than 2 percent.

Since May, sources of dollars have also been drying up, as United States money market funds have pulled back from buying the short-term debt of European banks.

According to Alex Roever, who tracks short-term credit markets for JPMorgan Chase, the agreement in Brussels on the latest euro zone rescue plan has not persuaded money market funds to jump back into the European market.

One of the greatest uncertainties for investors remains the exact nature of the latest bailout vehicle being assembled. The proposed $1.4 trillion European Financial Stability Facility is intended to keep Italy from getting swept up in the debt contagion and so prevent Europe’s crisis from metastasizing to a new level and damaging the global economy.

“It has taken so long for the pieces to come together — and there is still a lot of uncertainty about how the agreement will work — that it is undermining the confidence of investors,” Mr. Roever said. “It didn’t encourage anyone to pile back in.”

Instead, with dollars hard to come by, many banks must turn to the open foreign-exchange market, where the cost of swapping euros for dollars has spiked, another warning sign about the operation of money markets, although the cost is still well below levels at the end of 2008.

As European banks have lent less to each other, they have instead socked away cash at the European Central Bank. Banks’ deposits at the central bank have shot up at the same time that borrowing from the central bank has risen.

“Banks are so nervous to lend to one another, they are using the E.C.B. as a clearinghouse,” said Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott.

Michael Gapen of Barclays Capital in New York says he prefers credit-default swaps as an indicator of sovereign risk. The swaps provide a measure of the cost of insuring against a default on debt.

“It should directly map into probability of default,” he said. “It tends to lead bond markets.”

But other analysts say credit-default swaps may be compromised as an indicator after an agreement was reached to allow Greece to write off 50 percent of the debt owed to some banks without triggering the insurance.

The cost of insuring a basket of Western European sovereign debt eased a little around the time of a summit meeting in Brussels at the end of October, but it has once again approached record highs. And insurance rates on the debt of Spain — and especially Italy — have risen sharply since the summer.

The annual cost to insure $10 million of the debt of a basket of big European banks rose to more than $300,000 in mid-September, the data provider Markit said. It has since dropped back to about $245,000 annually, but remains at stressed levels — and some analysts see it staying there.

“The markets are looking and hoping for a stable Greek government that is able to sustain domestic and external support,” said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of the bond investment giant Pimco. “A coalition government that is simply seen as a transition to new elections would have difficulty.”
220 2011-11-07 On a recent day, the public space had three groups of people making use of the human and laptop fuels behind the company name. The groups were working on software projects, business planning and tutorials.

As with Second Life, the business has a virtual currency for buying, selling or bestowing tasks as gifts. Coffee and Power takes a 15 percent fee for moving the money back into real dollars.

The site has been active since spring with little fanfare. It attracted fewer than 700 transactions, but is now starting to actively solicit buyers and sellers.

“About 25 percent of our site is needs, and the rest is offers,” Mr. Rosedale said. “We’ll need about 10,000 jobs before we know what the final balance is like.”

Other online services have similar ideas — Task Rabbit, Freelancer.com and Amazon’s Mechanical Turk among them. One of the striking things about these services is how inexpensive it is to get something done.

Translation services on Coffee and Power currently sell for $10 a job, and a bike messenger can be had for $15. Much of the time, the people involved are already in these professions and are looking to make a few extra dollars on the side.

Besides putting downward pressure on what people can charge, the low prices also raise questions about the quality of the services. That is one reason that Mr. Rosedale is publicizing that he used cheap labor to build his own site.

He paid about $200,000 to build Coffee and Power, he said, using an earlier version of the service called Worklist. Every step in the development process is visible on the site, including the amount people have been paid for their work. An Australian working under the name Lithium has earned $46,523 since January, for example.

Another test project, called Hudat, is an iPhone application that converts pictures of Facebook and LinkedIn friends into online flashcards. The idea is that a person can review images before attending a party. It cost $2,600 to build, a fraction of what work like this normally costs, and was built in two weeks. The process is open for anyone to see.

“We work on total transparency,” Mr. Rosedale said. “If you don’t want anyone to see what you are working on, this is not for you.”

Second Life, in its heyday, held similar promise. While it became notorious for sexual chatter, it has over the years attracted a Reuters news bureau, now defunct, as well as emporiums of several companies like American Apparel and Starwood Hotels. Cisco Systems also held meetings there. Second Life still exists, but is much quieter now, offering virtual currency, meetings and digital real estate, among other services.

While he is still chairman of Linden Lab, the company that created Second life, Mr. Rosedale talks about that venture in the past tense.

“The problem with creating an immersive 3-D experience is that it is just too involved, and so it’s hard to get people to engage,” he said. “Smart people in rural areas, the handicapped, people looking for companionship, they love it. But you have to be highly motivated to get on and learn to use it.”

Mr. Rosedale, who raised about $1 million for Coffee and Power from investors including Jeff Bezos, Catamount Ventures and Greylock Partners, sees the trend of breaking work into smaller pieces — both in software and for physical tasks — as one that will continue to gain traction.

“I would rather hire a kid in Brazil who is hungry for work for a project than hire a Stanford graduate,” he said.
221 2011-11-07 Since his release in June, Mr. Ai, 54, has kept a low profile, one of the conditions of his bail. But the imposed silence ill-suited the artist, who has increasingly bridled against the restrictions, among them a prohibition against talking to the news media or communicating publicly through Weibo, China’s Twitter-like microblogging service.

Since the amount of his fine became public on Tuesday, Mr. Ai appears to have shed any reluctance to speak out and has criticized the tax penalty as an act of naked retribution for his critiques against the governing Communist Party.

The donations began pouring in on Thursday, many of them delivered electronically and accompanied by politically tinged comments. “You helped them to design the Bird’s Nest, but they sent you into a bird cage,” said one donor, referring to Mr. Ai’s role in designing the Olympic stadium in Beijing. “You charged them fees, but now they fine you more than hundreds of times that in blood and sweat.”

Some contributions have been small — symbolic, fractional sums of the total — while others have totaled thousands of dollars. Mr. Ai said one businessman offered him 1 million renminbi, about $157,000, but he turned it down, saying he preferred to receive smaller sums. Mr. Ai has insisted on describing the money as loans that he will repay.

On Monday, one of China’s more stridently nationalistic state-owned newspapers, Global Times, published an editorial in its English-language edition that criticized the campaign, warning that it might constitute “illegal fundraising” and insisting that the expressions of public support should not be construed as absolution for his crimes.

“These people are an extremely small number when compared with China’s total population,” the editorial said of the donors. “Ai’s political preference along with his supporters’ cannot stand for the mainstream public, which is opposed to radical and confrontational political stances.”

On Sunday, after his Weibo account was disabled, dozens of people began arriving at the gate of Mr. Ai’s studio on the outskirts of the capital. He said a number of people had folded 100-renminbi notes into airplanes and tossed them over the walls of his compound.

“Over the past three years, during all the efforts I’ve made, sometimes I felt like I was crying alone in a dark tunnel,” he said. “But now people have a way to express their true feelings. This is a really, really beautiful event.”
222 2011-11-08 On the eve of an economics debate in Michigan, Democrats release a Web video and say "Hit the road, Mitt."...
223 2011-11-08 On the eve of an economics debate in Michigan, Democrats release a Web video and say "Hit the road, Mitt."...
224 2011-11-08 A banking analyst with  JPMorgan Chase suggests that Credit Suisse and UBS get together and combine their investment banks in a joint venture....
225 2011-11-08 A banking analyst with JPMorgan Chase suggests that Credit Suisse and UBS get together and combine their investment banks in a joint venture....
226 2011-11-08 NSK, a Japanese robotics company, will show off the latest version of its guide dog for the blind at the 2011 International Robot Exhibition in Japan this week. The new dog is faster and has upgraded legs that should help it to avoid collisions mo...
227 2011-11-08 NSK, a Japanese robotics company, will show off the latest version of its guide dog for the blind at the 2011 International Robot Exhibition in Japan this week. The new dog is faster and has upgraded legs that should help it to avoid collisions mo...
228 2011-11-08 The owner is surprised to find out that he's not really the owner....
229 2011-11-08 The owner is surprised to find out that he's not really the owner....
230 2011-11-08 Creating displays depicting how veterans engage in the community after military service....
231 2011-11-08 Creating displays depicting how veterans engage in the community after military service....
232 2011-11-08 Boards need to take responsibility to create a culture that serves to check risk effectively. The MF Global board appears to have failed at this task....
233 2011-11-08 Boards need to take responsibility to create a culture that serves to check risk effectively. The MF Global board appears to have failed at this task....
234 2011-11-08 A report found that about three-fourths of the employers that suspended matching contributions after 2008 have brought them back, although some now offer a lower level of benefits....
235 2011-11-08 Many employers that suspended 401(k) matches during the downturn have restored them, an analysis finds....
236 2011-11-08 Shocker: Harvard law professors are well paid!...
237 2011-11-08 Shocker: Harvard law professors are well paid!...
238 2011-11-08 Crime Scene Extra: Catchphrases in vogue among those catching criminals, at least in 1946....
239 2011-11-08 Crime Scene Extra: Catchphrases in vogue among those catching criminals, at least in 1946....
240 2011-11-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
241 2011-11-08 Betabeat, The New York Observer's Web site on the city's technology sector, reports that women who set up meetings with venture capitalists can unwittingly find themselves on a date. In interviews with women in tech, Betabeat's reporters say one i...
242 2011-11-08 Chris Christie brings his political clout to New Hampshire to make an appeal for Mitt Romney....
243 2011-11-08 Chris Christie brings his political clout to New Hampshire to make an appeal for Mitt Romney....
244 2011-11-08 Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the KFC and Pizza Hut fast-food chains, won Chinese approval to buy Mongolian hot-pot seller Little Sheep Group Ltd. to extend its lead as the nation’s biggest restaurant operator. Little Sheep’s shares surged to a record high in Hong Kong trading.
245 2011-11-08 A woman said she wanted to take her own photographs of animals at a city shelter to avoid having them euthanized....
246 2011-11-08 A woman said she wanted to take her own photographs of animals at a city shelter to avoid having them euthanized....
247 2011-11-08 Credit Suisse has been ordered by the Swiss government to turn over account data on certain wealthy American clients to aid the United States in its effort to crack down on tax evasion....
248 2011-11-08 Credit Suisse has been ordered by the Swiss government to turn over account data on certain wealthy American clients to aid the United States in its effort to crack down on tax evasion....
249 2011-11-08 The energy company's corporate structure means the parent company could benefit from the bankruptcy of its own subsidiary....
250 2011-11-08 The energy company's corporate structure means the parent company could benefit from the bankruptcy of its own subsidiary....
251 2011-11-08 A new Lake Champlain Bridge, between Addison, Vt., and Crown Point, N.Y., opened Monday after a two-year replacement project. The previous 80-year-old bridge was deemed unsafe in October 2009 and demolished two months later, leaving the 3,400 drivers who used the bridge daily to take a ferry or roundabout routes to cross between the two states. Gov. Peter Shumlin of Vermont and Lt. Gov. Robert Duffy of New York attended the ribbon-cutting for the $70 million bridge.
252 2011-11-08 SYDNEY, Australia – The upper house of Australia’s Parliament on Tuesday approved the government’s proposal to adopt an ambitious emissions trading program, marking the end of a prolonged political battle that the business community has watched anxiously and that dragged Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s public approval ratings to historic lows.

The new regulations will impose a carbon tax on 500 of the country’s biggest polluters starting in July, before becoming a market-based trading program in 2015. The size of the trading program would be second only to the European Union’s.

The Senate passed the package of 18 bills that make up the carbon-trading legislation by a vote of 36 to 32, with the support of senators from the Green Party. The sharply divided House of Representatives passed the bills by only two votes last month.

The legislation has consumed Australian politics for the past four years and contributed heavily to the ousting of the previous prime minister, Kevin Rudd. Its passage prompted cheers from the packed public gallery of the Senate chamber in the capital, Canberra, according to local media reports.

But the opposition leader, Tony Abbott, has promised to repeal the legislation if his coalition comes to power in the next election. He took what he described as a “blood oath” to roll back the program after it passed the lower house.
253 2011-11-08 Like the Rangers, the 1986 Red Sox blew late leads in Game 6 on the road, then took a lead in Game 7 but lost. McNamara thought about that, too, as he watched the Rangers try to recover.

“You do it because that’s your business, and you think you’re ready,” McNamara said. “But there’s that thought in your mind: ‘Oh, what’s going to happen now?’ ”

For years, McNamara has mostly kept his thoughts on Game 6 to himself. He said he has been an easy target, and decided long ago that he could not change a well-worn narrative. A 2006 book, “Rob Neyer’s Big Book of Baseball Blunders,” includes his picture on the cover.

But McNamara opened up in a retrospective on the 1986 postseason that airs Wednesday night on MLB Network. He explains his rationale for removing Roger Clemens after seven innings, with Boston leading, 3-2, and for leaving a hobbling Bill Buckner on the field for the fateful 10th inning, which ended when Buckner’s error gave the Mets a 6-5 victory.

McNamara had used Dave Stapleton at first base at the end of every postseason victory. But Stapleton was not on the field at the end of Game 6, and he never played in the majors again.

“Buckner was the best first baseman I had,” McNamara says on the show. “And Dave Stapleton has taken enough shots at me since that he didn’t get in that ballgame, but Dave Stapleton’s nickname was Shakey. And you know what that implies. I didn’t want him playing first base to end that game, and it was not any sentimental thing that I had for Billy Buck.”

A book by Lou Gorman, the former Red Sox general manager, asserted that McNamara told him he believed Buckner deserved to be on the field when the Red Sox won the championship.

McNamara insisted that was incorrect. He said he did not recall the specifics of using Stapleton in other games, but has never questioned himself for sticking with Buckner, whom he called a Hall of Fame-worthy player.

“If the ball was hit to either side of him and he couldn’t get in front of it, yeah, I would have questioned myself,” McNamara said in the telephone interview. “But he got to the ball.”

McNamara could have pinch-hit for Buckner with two outs and the bases loaded against the left-handed Jesse Orosco in the eighth. He had the right-handed Don Baylor on the bench and, of course, Stapleton available for defense.

Again, though, McNamara said that Buckner did what he was supposed to do — in this case, he hit the ball hard, but for a flyout. “I never pinch-hit for him, anyway,” McNamara said.

As for Clemens, McNamara says on the show that, after the last out of the bottom of the seventh, Clemens told him as he came off the mound, “That’s all I can pitch.” McNamara said there was never a blister on Clemens’s middle finger, only the start of a paper cut.

Clemens has consistently denied asking out of the game, and he does so again on Wednesday’s show. McNamara was emphatic in his TV interview, saying, “I don’t lie.”

In any case, Calvin Schiraldi blew Clemens’s lead in the eighth, and crumbled again with a two-run lead in the bottom of the 10th, after two flyouts to start the inning. Bob Stanley replaced Schiraldi to face Mookie Wilson, throwing a game-tying wild pitch before Wilson’s little roller up along first.

There are other revelations in the show — McNamara confirms the account of the pitching coach Bill Fischer that Oil Can Boyd was too drunk for relief work in Game 7 — and Schiraldi, Wilson and Bruce Hurst appear in the studio for interviews.

A quarter-century from now, we could see a similar study of the haunting final innings of this year’s Game 6 at Busch Stadium, analyzing Nelson Cruz’s shaky route to David Freese’s game-tying triple with two outs in the bottom of the ninth, and Ron Washington’s curious bullpen moves in the 10th. McNamara could offer advice to Washington and the Rangers on handling their place in history.

“You put it in the proper perspective, what it means,” he said. “It wasn’t meant to be. You go on the best you can and try to put it behind you and not let it kill you.”
254 2011-11-08 BRUSSELS — Greece’s two main political parties have been told they must co-sign a letter pledging support for the country’s bailout terms in order to secure an 8 billion euro loan needed to stave off default, the head of the 17 euro zone finance ministers, Jean-Claude Juncker, said late Monday.

Though the ministers said they welcomed the deal to form a coalition government in Greece, European officials insisted that political consensus over a tough austerity program was a precondition for payment of the loan. Mr. Juncker said the ministers had “underlined the importance of sustained cross-party support for the program in Greece.”

“We have been calling for a coalition of national unity,” added Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs. “It is essential that the new government will express a clear commitment on paper, in writing.”

He added, however, that provided the assurances were forthcoming, the loan to Greece could be disbursed this month. That could be done by teleconference and without a formal meeting of finance ministers, he said.

The meeting on Monday in Brussels was dominated by the political dramas unfolding in Greece and Italy. Mr. Juncker urged the authorities in Rome to begin the economic reform measures pledged by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi in a letter to European Union leaders last month. “What we are expecting from Italy is that Italy will be implementing all the measures which have been announced in Silvio Berlusconi’s letter,” Mr. Juncker told reporters.
255 2011-11-08 But just a few blocks west, along a stretch of waterfront visible from that penthouse, is a different sort of open space: the beginnings of Bushwick Inlet Park, currently as notable for what is not there as for what is. It was planned as a 28-acre swath and promised to the community as a concession for the controversial rezoning, which was expected to bring thousands more residents to an area already short on parks, playgrounds and gardens.

Some of the anticipated buildings and residents have materialized, but most of the parkland has not. A soccer field is already in use, and a park building and playground are under construction. But the city has only just started a multiyear deal to acquire a site that houses an oil depot, and has no budget or timetable to clean it up or to buy another major parcel already designated as parkland.

“The parks are an amenity that was promised to the community, but the community is both new residents and old,” said Ward Dennis, a co-chairman of Neighbors Allied for Good Growth, a volunteer planning group. “Without the new open space, we’re adding people and just making a bad situation in terms of open space ratio even worse.”

City officials say that they are still committed to finishing the park, as well as two smaller ones, but that they simply do not have the money to buy all the land in the neighborhood. Prices there have climbed over the years, driven in part by the city’s own actions in transforming areas zoned for manufacturing into far more valuable high-density residential land.

The city ended up paying $95 million just for the first parcel — 8.7 acres — it acquired because the owner appeared to be swaying the court in a condemnation suit by arguing that since the land would have been rezoned to allow for towering apartment buildings, the value should take that into account. The city has since bought a 2.5-acre plot for $30 million and has entered an agreement to buy another piece near Bushwick Inlet from Bayside Fuel Oil for about $80 million by the end of fiscal year 2015.

That leaves a few other plots, including an 11-acre parcel that is currently the site of CitiStorage; the owner, Norman Brodsky, declined to say how much he wanted for the land, but he did say he would take the same per-square-foot price as the 8.7-acre piece — somewhere in the vicinity of $120 million. But that does not include the tens of millions the city would also have to pay to buy out or relocate his business.

“The city is investing in excess of $315 million in this one community, which is a quarter of our total capital budget for 20 years in the borough of Brooklyn,” said Adrian Benepe, the New York City parks commissioner. “There’s still a lot of work to do. I think the city’s commitment to acquire and develop those remaining sites exists.”

Meanwhile, 144 North Eighth Street has been attracting many buyers, Mr. Hurwitz said. Twenty-five of the 41 apartments are already in contract, mostly selling for about $900 to $1,100 a square foot — well above the median for new condos in the area.

And at 140 North Eighth Street, a four-story walk-up that is now surrounded on three sides by the finger’s big green lawn, residents seem resigned.

“Everything looks nice,” said Eugenia Moraski, who added that she could not see anything but the building from her second-floor window. “A long, long time we were waiting for this thing, and now it is finished.”

Marisa Bowe, who lives on the top floor and has been growing vines off her fire escape to block the view of the tower, offered a more ambivalent assessment, saying she anticipated a hint of the feeling of “I’m in steerage,” looking down on the vast expanse of green, as well as frustration that as residents of the area they had to tolerate all the negative effects of the rezoning without reaping its benefits.

Still, Ms. Bowe said, there could be some larger benefit to the landscaped roof in that it would help absorb storm water and alleviate flooding in the sewers, as well as give the new residents their own open space, taking pressure off the existing parks and playgrounds.

“There could be anything in that space, so the fact that there are actually green things growing, I like that; it’s great,” she said.

Ms. Bowe added that having watched the construction of the roof, with layers of drainage, irrigation and planting materials, she was shocked that the result was a big lawn like she grew up with in Minnesota. “I came all this way,” she said with a laugh, “just to be back in the suburbs?”
256 2011-11-08 “In an ideal democracy, we would like citizens to make reasoned choices, and vote based on the ideas and quality of the parties and candidates in a given election,” the authors write.

While they do not discount the usefulness of emotion in making that choice — “they say that “feeling anxious about a candidate is a good enough reason not to vote for him or her” — they add:

“We must understand that emotions are not merely feelings; often they carry with them a physio-endocrinal component which itself has the potential to biologically affect decision-making at the ballot box.”

People with higher cortisol levels are more likely to make snap decisions, the authors say, citing earlier studies. And higher levels of the hormone can affect memory.

“We do not argue that cortisol causes amnesia,” Professor Waismel-Manor said, “but it is possible that as some of these voters approach the ballot, they tend to forget how good or bad the last four years have been, or perhaps just that the troops are still in the Middle East, or that the recession is still here. That could be enough for some undecided voters or leaners to tilt the decision one way or the other.”

Such reactions may help explain the “What’s the Matter With Kansas?” syndrome, advanced by the book of the same name, in which people sometimes seem to vote against their self-interest.

One way to reduce stress, he suggests, would be to encourage absentee voting or mail ballots to eliminate “the public performance” of voting.

“We go to a public place where there are lots of strangers, people who probably do not know me, will check my ID and determine if I can vote, I may face a long line, and I really want to get back to watch the game, I will probably run into Aunt Edna, and I hate her guts, etc.,” he said. Stress levels may also be driven “by a sense of duty: the fate of the nation is in my hands.”

Professor Waismel-Manor said he hoped to collaborate with American scholars “to provide the public and decision makers in Washington substantiated data that may or may not confirm that voting is indeed stressful, what causes this stress, can the stress be reduced, and whether voters with lower stress vote more closely to their true preference — the preference they had the night before Election Day.”
257 2011-11-08 “We often see kids getting into a sibling’s medications, and sometimes parents get confused and give a medication meant for the older kid to the younger kid,” said Dr. Carl Baum, the director of the Center for Children’s Environmental Toxicology at Yale-New Haven Children’s Hospital.

Toxic ingestions by young children tend to peak during the toddler years (fully one-third of calls to poison centers concern 1- and 2-year-olds), for reasons familiar to parents: curiosity, increasing mobility and a complete lack of common sense. Poisonings rise again during the teenage years, as adolescents experiment with virtually any substance that can be sniffed or swallowed. In recent years, prescription drugs have ranked second only to marijuana as drugs of abuse among adolescents.

According to data compiled by Dr. Alvin C. Bronstein, the director of surveillance for the American Association of Poison Control Centers, and Dr. Daniel A. Spyker of Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., three types of exposures have increased most significantly among children ages 10 to 19 during the last decade: ingestions of atypical antipsychotic drugs, up by 543 cases per year on average; ingestions of benzodiazepines (anti-anxiety drugs), which have risen by 328 cases per year; and ingestions of certain antiseizure medications, which have grown by 300 cases a year.

Among children up to age 5, exposures to all those medications are also on the rise, but there have been even larger increases involving nonprescription drugs, including ibuprofen and multivitamin tablets.

“What hasn’t changed is kids getting into pharmaceuticals and household things,” said Dr. Timothy Erickson, a professor of emergency medicine and medical toxicology at the University of Illinois at Chicago. “Now they’re getting into more dangerous prescription drugs.”

The drugs may have changed, but the prevention strategies still emphasize the importance of keeping the medications away from children. The great reform in preventing pediatric poisoning was child-resistant packaging, which was instituted at the beginning of the 1970s — along with an expansion of poison control centers, established to provide expertise both to parents and to doctors.

With the proliferation of pharmaceutical products, the centers are more important than ever. When you call (800) 222-1222, your call is routed to a poison control center for your area, where a specialist will talk you through what to do about pretty much anything that a person might swallow, inhale or otherwise encounter.

The information from that call goes into the National Poison Data System, the huge database, directed by Dr. Bronstein, that provides a kind of real-time look at who is being exposed to what, allowing rapid recognition of problems — a kind of early warning system for toxic exposures.

“A new product comes on the market, and about six weeks later, poison centers start to get calls from parents and caretakers,” said Dr. Alan Woolf, the director of environmental medicine at Children’s Hospital Boston. “You start to get sentinel cases.”

With an increasingly complex array of drugs found in many medicine cabinets, parents need to be reminded all over again about the importance of keeping medications away from the curious explorations of young children and the less innocent experimentation of adolescents.

The poison center system provides the medical expertise to answer new questions as they arise and tracks exposures at the most local level, Dr. Baum said. The local experts often are the only ones who can identify which drugs are sold on the street in a particular town, or which emergency rooms can handle an unusual ingestion.

In the event of certain kinds of terrorist attacks, Dr. Woolf pointed out, “it’s not a stretch to consider it part of the first response.”

Not long after 9/11, I saw an adolescent with an alarming facial rash and wondered about cutaneous anthrax. I called the local poison center, which told me that someone had been selling a homemade acne remedy door to door in the community and that it was causing dramatic lesions.

I asked my patient, and sure enough, she had bought some and applied it.
258 2011-11-08 The policy makers’ principal goal is to tamp down inflation, which has played a repeated role in causing social unrest, including during the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Despite a goal of limiting inflation to no more than 4 percent a year, prices have stubbornly remained about 6 percent higher this autumn than a year ago for consumers based on official gauges — and up to twice that by the estimate of many private economists.

The worst of the credit squeeze this year has compelled at least a few business people to flee the country or even commit suicide. They did so after borrowing money at usurious rates of up to 5 percent a month — an 80 percent annual rate — from loan sharks or neighborhood lending pools and then finding that their speculative investments with the money did not pay off.

But the credit squeeze is far broader. In more than a dozen recent interviews at the Canton Fair here, the country’s largest export trade fair, every business owner or sales manager described increasing difficulties in borrowing money — as well as strategies that banks and borrowers alike are using to cushion the effect of the new lending restrictions.

Some banks are requiring lenders to personally guarantee corporate loans and put up considerably more land and factory equipment as collateral. Others lend money only if borrowers agree to redeposit up to half of the loan in the same bank at a much lower interest rate. The practical effect is that the borrower pays a much higher interest rate than the official, heavily regulated interest rate for loans, usually 7 or 8 percent.

“If the bank lends you one million, they ask for 500,000 back as a deposit,” said Elaine Yan, the import and export manager at the Wuxi Zontai International Corporation, a trading company specializing in brightly colored shower curtains and bath mats. The company has decided not to borrow money at all, meeting its modest financing needs through retained profits.

Daunted by such terms, Helen Huang, the owner of a company producing chrome-plated paperweights, turned to a neighborhood lending pool last year. The $3.1 million she borrowed helped finance a $7.9 million land purchase so her company, the Shijiazhuang Harmony Import and Export Company, could build a factory.

The lending pool, run by friends, charged only 7 percent a year, she said — similar to what a bank loan would have been, but without onerous paperwork or redeposit requirements. The friends were seeking to earn more than the meager, regulated interest paid on bank deposits, currently 3.5 percent for a one-year certificate of deposit — a rate so low that, with 6 percent inflation, bank deposits actually lose buying power.

China has a long tradition of such family-and-friend lending pools, which finance many entrepreneurial businesses whose creditworthiness may be hard for banks to assess. The legality of these pools is murky and depends partly on the extent to which they rely on new deposits to help pay interest to earlier investors.

With banks restricted from lending, businesses are taking different tacks to raise money. Some ask customers to make larger deposits when they place orders, for example, so that the factories can use the cash to pay for raw materials.

“I do try to ask for more deposits upfront, but customers are resistant,” said Ms. Huang, the paperweight maker.

The government’s tight grip on lending is producing results: Consumer inflation is slowly subsiding by official measures, to 6.1 percent in September from a peak of 6.5 percent in July. But in its place, one new concern is whether state planners have tightened too much.

Beyond slowing factory expansions, the lending curbs have hit real estate developers particularly hard, said Stephen Green, the chief China analyst for Standard Chartered Bank. Many speculators, betting on ever-rising land prices, have parked their money in newly built offices or apartments that are largely vacant.

With credit scarce, some are unable to roll over the loans used to build the developments. While well-financed developers are barely cutting prices, weaker developers have begun quietly discounting new apartments by up to 30 percent in the last month; the latest official figures for changes in real estate prices were not yet available. Others may be forced to sell or rent property at a deep discount, winding up underwater, like some American homeowners.

Cooling off land speculation was a major goal of the government’s tightening, Mr. Green said. But if the credit tightening isn’t carefully calibrated, he added, it could hit both developers and the economy too hard.

“I think generally the economy is showing signs of sand in the wheels — it’s beginning to slow things down,” he said of the tightening measures. “If it turns out to be a macro problem, that’s one of the things that will cause the government to loosen policy sooner.”

And in fact, there are hints of just that. The State Council, China’s cabinet, said in late October that it would experiment with lowering the value-added tax, which is typically 17 percent, at least for service businesses, potentially putting more money into circulation. Premier Wen Jiabao also signaled some relaxation, saying late last month that planners would eventually “fine-tune” policies to ensure adequate growth in credit and the money supply.

While many business people are dismayed by the scant availability of credit, they are also painfully aware of inflation. Rapid economic growth has exposed shortages, particularly labor shortages, and sent prices soaring.

Ms. Huang, the paperweight maker, said that pay for skilled workers who can operate chrome-plating equipment had doubled just in the last year, to $630 a month. Even with that increase, she has so much trouble finding workers that orders received last month will not be filled until March, she said.

Demand is surging even for unskilled workers in interior provinces far from the prosperous coast. Mr. Huan said that competition for labor from other businesses had forced his company, Tennon Frame in Luoyang, a city in inland Henan Province, to raise wages this year to $150 a month before overtime and benefits, compared with $95 a month early last year.

“It’s crazy — China is going crazy,” he said.
259 2011-11-08 Women who have had ovarian stimulation to produce eggs for in vitro fertilization are at slightly increased risk for a type of ovarian cancer, a large study has found.

Dutch researchers studied more than 19,000 women age 40 and younger who had I.V.F. and about 6,000 who had visited fertility clinics without having the procedure.

After 15 years of follow-up, they found that women who had undergone I.V.F. were more than four times as likely those who had not to develop borderline ovarian cancer, a malignancy that is treatable and survivable.

The findings, published online Oct. 26 in the journal Human Reproduction, held even after adjusting for age, previous pregnancies, the cause of infertility and other factors. The risk did not increase with multiple treatments or the number of eggs harvested, and there was no significant increase in invasive ovarian cancer.

The risk for ovarian cancer of any kind by age 55 is small — about 0.45 percent in the population studied — and the authors estimate from their data that the risk for women who have had I.V.F. would rise to 0.71 percent.

“This shouldn’t be a cause of concern to women undergoing I.V.F.,” said Flora E. van Leeuwen, the lead author. “We’re talking about an increased risk of a very rare tumor that is highly treatable.”
260 2011-11-08 A British judge ordered the 3M Corporation to pay $1.3 million in damages Monday after finding that the company had failed to make good on its promise to market a diagnostic test to screen for a dangerous bacterium found in hospitals.

The decision, released in London, represented a legal victory for a British investment fund, the Porton Group, and its partners, who filed a lawsuit in 2008 claiming that 3M had breached its contract to commercialize the test.

“I am delighted that we have been vindicated,” the fund’s chief executive, Harvey Boulter, said in a statement.

But the damage award was far smaller than the $40 million initially sought, and a convoluted legal morass surrounding the case is likely to continue.

On Monday, 3M also claimed victory and said it would press ahead with a separate lawsuit filed in the United States, which charged that Mr. Boulter and a well-known Washington lobbyist, Lanny J. Davis, had conspired to blackmail 3M; both men have denied the charges.
261 2011-11-08 In a statement reported by the ANSA news agency, Mr. Berlusconi said talk of his imminent resignation was “without foundation and I do not understand how it got around.”

Mr. Berlusconi spent Monday morning at his private villa outside where he met with his children and Fedele Confalonieri, chairman of Mr. Berlusconi’s Mediaset media company and a close friend and adviser.

The rumors of his impending resignation, and their later rebuttal by Mr. Berlusconi, sent markets seesawing. The yields on Italy’s 10-year , a barometer of investor anxiety about loaning Italy money, rose to 6.63 percent, close to the level that forced , and to seek financial rescues.

Calls by Mr. Berlusconi’s critics for his resignation doubled over the weekend after Italy last week agreed to allow the to monitor restructuring steps aimed at containing its ballooning debt and boosting its stagnant economy.

Mr. Berlusconi’s ability to steer Italy, the euro zone’s third largest economy, has been called into question by a prolonged deadlock in Parliament over the scope of sweeping changes encompassing everything from pensions to privatizations.

Lawmakers from his Peoples of Liberty party have begun to openly criticize Mr. Berlusconi, a censure that would have been unthinkable until a few months ago.

Over the past two weeks, a steady trickle of defectors has left the party. By most counts on Monday, Mr. Berlusconi had lost his majority in the lower house, where he has held on to power for nearly a year with only a handful of votes.

Battered by sex scandals and countless investigations into alleged financial improprieties within his vast business holdings, Mr. Berlusconi was ultimately backed into a corner by factors outside of Italy that he could not control.

The frailty of Mr. Berlusconi’s position was expected to become clearer on Tuesday during a scheduled vote on a budget bill.

Should the government fall, a number of outcomes are open to Italy’s president, Giorgio Napolitano, who is called on by the constitution to manage the crisis.

Mr. Berlusconi and his coalition allies have repeatedly said that the only option is an immediate return to the polls. But there is widespread aversion to the current electoral law, which has eliminated the notion of direct political representation, allowing party leaders to hand-pick their candidates.

And in the current political situation, where a myriad of centrist and leftist opposition parties are unlikely to win enough votes on their own to craft a strong majority, new elections would likely lead to only sustained stalemate.

There was also no assurance that a government different from Mr. Berlusconi’s would be any more successful in pushing through the changes demanded by the European Union and now under the watchful eye of the International Monetary Fund.

With that in mind, Mr. Napolitano could also choose an apolitical outsider to lead Parliament for the time necessary to pass changes unpopular with wide segments of the electorate. But this option, which has been adopted in other moments of political uncertainly in Italian history, is also subject to political calculations.

It is difficult “to abdicate the defense of the interests of one’s electoral base if one thinks, that, in any case, elections are not so far away,” wrote Angelo Panebianco in a front-page column in the Milan daily Corriere della Sera.
262 2011-11-08 Switzerland is facing a growing threat from falling prices, official data showed Monday, just two months after the central bank announced a policy to drive down the value of the currency and maintain price stability.

The Swiss consumer price index fell 0.1 percent in October from September and was down 0.1 percent from a year earlier, the Federal Statistics Office said in Neuchatel, Switzerland. That followed a report last month that showed producer and import prices fell 0.1 percent in September from August and 2 percent from a year earlier.

“This reinforces concerns that deflation will return to Switzerland,” said Lee Hardman, a currency economist in London with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.

Deflation punishes borrowers by raising real interest rates, and makes businesses and consumers less willing to buy because they suspect that prices will fall in the future.

The Swiss National Bank, the nation’s central bank, has watched with alarm as investors fleeing the crisis in the euro zone have bought Swiss assets, driving the franc up against the euro and other currencies. That hurts Swiss exports and businesses operating overseas. But while cheap imports to Switzerland are contributing to deflation, the influx of foreign money seeking a Swiss haven is causing some prices to rise — real estate, for example, which cannot be imported.
263 2011-11-08 As Coach Steve Lavin continued to recuperate at home from Oct. 6 surgery to treat prostate cancer, his new-look St. John's Red Storm handled William & Mary, 74-59, in the nation's first college basketball game of the season. The Red Storm will hos...
264 2011-11-09 Washington's bailout of the auto industry is credited with helping more than just the automakers....
265 2011-11-09 Washington's bailout of the auto industry is credited with helping more than just the automakers....
266 2011-11-09 The home of The Beatles could be divided into a music label and publishing business, then sold separately....
267 2011-11-09 The home of The Beatles could be divided into a music label and publishing business, then sold separately....
268 2011-11-09 Examining a collection of science tattoos and choosing science-related images of personal significance....
269 2011-11-09 Examining a collection of science tattoos and choosing science-related images of personal significance....
270 2011-11-09 The European debt crisis is entering new territory with the focus on Italy.  The New York Times's Graham Bowley reports on investor reaction to the leadership crisis in the world's eighth-largest economy....
271 2011-11-09 The European debt crisis is entering new territory with the focus on Italy. The New York Times's Graham Bowley reports on investor reaction to the leadership crisis in the world's eighth-largest economy....
272 2011-11-09 November 9, 2011 - Investors remain skeptical Italy can tackle its financial crisis
273 2011-11-09 How to assign certain applications to open certain files in Mac and Windows....
274 2011-11-09 How to assign certain applications to open certain files in Mac and Windows....
275 2011-11-09 ESPN3 and ESPN Deportes will carry the Euro 2012 playoffs Friday and Tuesday, live and on tape....
276 2011-11-09 ESPN3 and ESPN Deportes will carry the Euro 2012 playoffs Friday and Tuesday, live and on tape....
277 2011-11-09 A ruling by a judge on Tuesday could further increase the pressure on Rupert Murdoch and his son James in the investigation of phone hacking at the British tabloid The News of the World....
278 2011-11-09 A ruling by a judge on Tuesday could further increase the pressure on Rupert Murdoch and his son James in the investigation of phone hacking at the British tabloid The News of the World....
279 2011-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
280 2011-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
281 2011-11-09 More than 3,500 applicants are seeking early admission to Princeton this fall, after the university reinstated its early admission program....
282 2011-11-09 More than 3,500 applicants are seeking early admission to Princeton this fall, after the university reinstated its early admission program....
283 2011-11-09 What do readers think about Carl Richards's article about the short sale of his home in Las Vegas?...
284 2011-11-09 What do readers think about Carl Richards's article about the short sale of his home in Las Vegas?...
285 2011-11-09 Foreign-born business owners, like Abel Cherubin, must tread through a thicket of obstacles, which have only been compounded during the economic downturn....
286 2011-11-09 Foreign-born business owners, like Abel Cherubin, must tread through a thicket of obstacles, which have only been compounded during the economic downturn....
287 2011-11-09 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
288 2011-11-09 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
289 2011-11-09 Why is South Africa, which has some of the best legal protections for gay people, also home to some of the most sordid homophobic killings?...
290 2011-11-09 Why is South Africa, which has some of the best legal protections for gay people in the world, also home to some of its most sordid homophobic killings?...
291 2011-11-09 Trada, which crowdsources search engine ads, now does the same for social networking ads, which it says will change the future of search....
292 2011-11-09 Trada, which crowdsources search engine ads, now does the same for social networking ads, which it says will change the future of search....
293 2011-11-09 In the wake of a historic September collapse and October revelations about players drinking beer and eating chicken while games were being played, the Boston Red Sox are keeping ticket prices the same for the 2012 season.

The club announced Tuesday that the cost of all tickets available to the public would be unchanged, and prices for premium seats bought through multiyear contracts would vary.

It is the second time in four years the team has kept prices for publicly available tickets at the same price, the first instance coming after the 2009 season, when the Red Sox were swept in the first round of the playoffs.

This season was worse. The Red Sox went 7-20 in September and were eliminated from playoff contention on the final day of the regular season.

Two days later, Terry Francona left after eight years as the manager. General Manager Theo Epstein later became the president for baseball operations of the Chicago Cubs.
294 2011-11-09 BP will no longer be responsible to clean up oil that winds up on shores of the Gulf of Mexico coastline unless officials can prove it comes from the company’s well that blew out in 2010, according to a plan approved by the Coast Guard and obtained by The Associated Press on Tuesday. BP will now turn its attention to restoring areas damaged by the spill. About 90 percent of the coast has been deemed clean, officials say. The plan spells out protocol for when an area still needs to be cleaned and when BP’s responsibility for that ends. Louisiana officials would not give their approval because they were concerned about what they perceived as a lack of long-term monitoring in the document.
295 2011-11-09 Prices for nearly everything from Mr. Norton’s collection topped expectations, with pieces like Mr. McCarthy’s “Tomato Head,” a childlike 1994 sculpture, bringing $4.5 million, a record price for the artist at auction and far above the estimate of $1 million to $1.5 million. Another top price was paid for Mr. Gober’s “Prison Window,” a 1992 construction that was estimated to bring $800,000 to $1.2 million but made $3.3 million.

Putting the Norton collection at the beginning of the evening created buyer confidence for the art that followed.

Pop Art stills rules. Topping the evening was Lichtenstein’s “I Can See the Whole Room! ... and There’s Nobody In It!” a black canvas from 1961 with a man’s face peering through a peephole. Courtney Sale Ross, the widow of the former Time Warner chief executive Steven J. Ross, was selling the painting, which was estimated to bring $35 million to $45 million. Three bidders wanted it, and the winner was Guy Bennett, a New York dealer, who paid $38.5 million, or $43.2 million with fees. It was another record price for the artist at auction, eclipsing “Ohhhh ... Alright,” a 1964 Lichtenstein painting that had made $42.6 million at Christie’s a year ago.

Mr. Brant was selling Warhol’s “Silver Liz,” a 1963 image of Elizabeth Taylor that was estimated at $16 million to $19 million. That painting was bought by Mr. Graff for $16.3 million. Mr. Brant, when asked what he made of the sale, said he thought he “did well.”

It wasn’t the only Warhol in demand on Tuesday. “Four Campbell’s Soup Cans,” a 1962 painting in which the artist placed the cans in a seemingly haphazard arrangement, had an estimate of $7 million to $10 million and was bought by a telephone bidder for $9.8 million.

Outdoor sculpture has been fetching strong prices recently, and Louise Bourgeois’s “Spider,” a giant bronze that has been parked outside Christie’s Manhattan headquarters, made $10.7 million, a record price for the artist at auction, against an estimate of $4 million to $6 million. “That was an example of today’s global market,” said Brett Gorvy, head of Christie’s worldwide postwar and contemporary art department. “It resonated with people in so many ways.”

An early painting by Cy Twombly, “Untitled (Lexington, Virginia),” a canvas that is a constellation of marks and scribbles, sold to Larry Gagosian, the international dealer, for $5.2 million. It had been expected to sell for $5 million to $7 million.

Works by Jeff Koons also brought solid prices. The artist’s “Two Ball Total Equilibrium Tank (Spalding Dr. J Silver Series, Wilson Aggressor)” from 1985 — two basketballs floating in a water-filled tank — was estimated at $2 million to $3 million, but was snapped up by David Zwirner, the Manhattan dealer, for $3.7 million, or $4.2 million with fees.

As the auction was coming to an end, Mr. Gorvy called the bidding “sensible,” adding that “the top collectors around the world were present and bidding for things that they could see were once-in-a-lifetime purchases. These were serious collectors, not new-world buyers.”
296 2011-11-09 Ken Salazar, the interior secretary, said the new plan incorporated the lessons learned from the BP explosion, which killed 11 workers and poured nearly five million barrels of crude into the gulf. Mr. Salazar said the proposal was a balance between resource development and environmental protection, while acknowledging that drilling beneath 5,000 feet of water in the gulf or in the unforgiving conditions in the Arctic would never be free of risk.

Oil industry officials quickly criticized the plan, which covers the years 2012-17, saying it limits oil exploration at a time when the economy is in desperate need of jobs.

But Mr. Salazar said that oil production in 2010 was at its highest level since 2003 and that natural gas production was at its highest peak in 30 years. He said his proposed offshore lease strategy made available more than 75 percent of undiscovered and technically recoverable oil and gas resources.

Still, anticipating industry criticism, he said at a noon briefing for reporters, “We don’t believe we should open up every single place and look under every single rock in order to produce oil and gas.”

Jack N. Gerard, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, said in an interview that this was a missed opportunity for the administration.

“They failed to open additional areas that would have led to job creation, revenue generation and economic recovery,” Mr. Gerard said. “What they’ve offered today is significantly less than what the president offered in 2010. The reality is we’re moving in the wrong direction.”

Environmental advocates responded vehemently to the new plan, which they said put sensitive coastlines, waters and fisheries at risk in Alaska and in the gulf.

“Last year’s disaster in the Gulf of Mexico was supposed to be a wake-up call about the dangers of offshore drilling,” said Miyoko Sakashita, oceans director at the Center for Biological Diversity. “But it looks like President Obama hit the snooze button and slept right through it.”

Several groups pointed out the difficulties of dealing with a potential spill in the Arctic, where the nearest Coast Guard facility is almost 1,000 miles away.

David J. Hayes, the deputy interior secretary, acknowledged that the infrastructure did not now exist to prevent or respond to a major spill in the Arctic. Mr. Hayes said a response could be compromised by inclement weather, a lack of deep harbors, a shortage of appropriate vessels and inadequate oil transportation resources.

The department was addressing those concerns, he said, and as a result had scheduled any possible lease sales in Alaska for the end of the five-year lease program.

Frances Beinecke, the president of Natural Resources Defense Council and a member of the panel Mr. Obama named to investigate the BP spill, said approving new drilling without adequate safety measures was a “reckless gamble.”

“The president’s oil spill commission put forth a game plan to improve the industry’s safety, but it has yet to be realized,” Ms. Beinecke said in a statement. “Congress has failed to pass a single law to better protect workers or the environment. Industry has not invested sufficiently in developing the technologies needed to prevent future disasters. And the government still needs additional resources and science in order to effectively police an industry that so desperately needs it.”
297 2011-11-09 Labor leaders said their victory contained an important message for Republicans.

“Attacking education and other public employees is not at all what the public wants to see,” said Karen M. White, political director of the National Education Association, the nation’s largest public sector union. “It should resonate with politicians that they’ve gone too far.”

At a news conference Tuesday night, Mr. Kasich congratulated the winners and said he would assess the situation before proposing any new legislation. “It’s time to pause,” he said. “The people have spoken clearly.”

When asked about the people’s message, Mr. Kasich said, “They might have said it was too much too soon.”

Labor’s victory in this important swing state comes a year before the presidential election, and policy makers and political strategists will be studying ballot initiatives for clues to voter sentiment in 2012.

The election in Ohio provided an opportunity for the president’s network of supporters, Obama for America, to test its organizational ability and revive its enthusiasm after a bleak year for Democratic activists. Volunteers for the president’s re-election campaign fanned out across the state for weeks, urging voters to stand against the new law limiting collective bargaining.

The issue did not break entirely along party lines. The supporters of the law did not receive as much outside help, with the Republican presidential primary campaign in full swing.

Even when , a leading candidate, visited Ohio recently, he said he was not sure where he stood on the issue. A day later, he said he stood against the labor unions.

Some analysts cautioned against reading too much into the result as a predictor for 2012. The law has been highly controversial in Ohio, even among groups like firefighters and police officers that traditionally vote Republican, and a vote cast against the law does not translate directly to a vote for .

“This is not a purely partisan issue,” said Gene Beaupre, a political science professor at Xavier University. “It has merits on its substance.”

The real question, he said, will be how independents voted. In a warning to Democrats, a largely symbolic measure against Mr. Obama’s was among the ballot initiatives that passed.

Republicans who watched the campaign on the union measure said it was doomed from the start. The law was a frontal assault on one of the most sacred principles for Democrats: the right of organized labor to collectively bargain. Defeating the repeal campaign would have required near-universal Republican support, which was not there because some registered Republicans opposed the law.

“This really is a core value, and the bill was out of step with that value,” said one Republican strategist, who asked to remain anonymous because he did not want to be seen as criticizing his party’s position.

Labor fought harder, observers said, because its stakes were higher. We Are Ohio, the main group that opposed the law, poured about $30 million into the campaign, said Melissa Fazekas, the group’s spokeswoman, and had about 17,000 volunteers out over the weekend knocking on doors to persuade residents to go out and vote. The main group supporting the bill, Building a Better Ohio, said it spent just under $8 million.

“What we were actually fighting for was our livelihood,” said Monty Blanton, a retired state employee and union worker who said he spent 14 hours a day knocking on doors in southeast Ohio in the last month. “We’ve been to places you had to get to with a four-wheel drive.”

Labor organizers also had the advantage of appealing to a current of national disgust.

“Who are you going to trust, the politician who is more worried about whether his hair is parted correctly, or the firefighter and policeman in your neighborhood?” said Jim Gilbert, the president of the Fraternal Order of Police in Columbus.

It is unclear whether the episode will cause Republicans to suffer at the ballot box next year. Bill Capretta, a registered Republican and a retired police officer in Columbus, said that while he did not think he would vote for Mr. Obama, whose health care law he opposes, he was frustrated with Republicans for blocking the president’s efforts.

“When you just say ‘No, no, no’ because you want this guy to be a one-term president, I have a problem with that,” he said.
298 2011-11-09 So this is the story of how I lost my home, the profound ethical questions that arose along the way, and what my wife and I learned from the mistakes that led us to that point. It made me better at what I do, but it wasn’t much fun getting there.

Like most financial stories, this one is personal. It starts with me getting into the financial services industry more or less by accident. I answered an ad in 1995 that I thought was for a job related to “security” (as in security guard) but was in fact related to “securities.” That’s how little I knew about the stock market. A few months later I found myself working a phone at a Fidelity Investments call center.

Things went well, and by 1999 I was a Merrill Lynch financial adviser and a certified financial planner. By then, we also owned a house in Salt Lake City. We’d bought it two years earlier, with a $25,000 down payment.

A few years later, an opportunity arose to form a partnership with a successful Merrill adviser in Las Vegas. The place was on our top 10 list of never-move-to cities because we had always associated it with the Strip. But Cori and I were looking for an opportunity to have an experience somewhere else, and we met some great people when we visited the city. I took the job, and we moved down there.

That was May 2003. Housing prices were already crazy, so we rented. But our neighborhood had zero character and lots of cookie-cutter houses. Within a few weeks, we were looking for a place to buy.

I felt we could afford around $350,000. We called a real estate agent named Mitch, who had signs on all the bus stops: Talk to Mitch! He picked us up in a gold Jaguar, and suddenly we were looking at houses that listed at $500,000 or more.

It felt a little crazy to be shopping for houses that cost half a million dollars, but my income was growing rapidly. Everywhere I looked, people were being rewarded for buying as much house as they could possibly afford, and then some. There was this excitement in the air, almost like static. I started to think that if I didn’t buy a house right then, I would never be able to afford one.

At moments during our house hunt, I felt in my gut that something wasn’t right. We’d go to open houses for $400,000 homes and see lines of couples in their late 20s — younger than we were — waiting to get inside. I kept wondering where all the money was coming from. How did all these people make so much?

But prices just kept rising, and when people kept buying, that made it seem safer. I knew from my work as a financial adviser that following the crowd could be costly. But like everyone else, I felt safer in a crowd.

We didn’t find anything we liked with Mitch, but one day in September 2003 Cori spotted a for-sale-by-owner sign in a really nice neighborhood. We ended up buying the house and paid the asking price of $575,000. (When we tried to negotiate on price, the owners were amused; it just wasn’t that kind of market.)

We borrowed 100 percent of the purchase price. In fact, I was told I could borrow even more if I wanted. I had perfect credit and a solid income that was growing. But even so, when the lender approved us at 100 percent, it was more than I had expected. I remember thinking something like “Wow. I guess if they’re willing to lend it to us it must be O.K.”

I should have known better. No matter how well things are going, borrowing 100 percent of the purchase price of a home is not a good idea. I shouldn’t have relied on someone else to make that calculation, let alone the guy who was making money putting me in the loan. I was a financial adviser, and I never sat down to figure out what it would take to make this work. I just wanted to believe him. And it was so easy to believe he had been right, at least at first. We loved living there. The children went to an awesome public school, and we made some great friends. I could ride my bike to Red Rocks, the wilderness area outside of town. And for a time, the real estate market erased any doubt I may have had. It just kept going up.

One evening in 2006 comes to mind. My sister-in-law was thinking of moving to Las Vegas, and a real estate agent told me about an open house for a new Toll Brothers community. This wasn’t a come-by-for-cookies type of open house; it was held at a Las Vegas hotel ballroom. I arrived to find a line that led down a flight of stairs and out of the front door. Before I got to the front of the line, they stopped admitting people. Then people rushed the door, like it was a rock concert.

The market’s continued strength meant we could borrow even more. It was easy. In late 2004, a year after buying the house, we refinanced our mortgage with World Savings Bank, which later ended up in the hands of Wells Fargo, using one of the pick-a-payment loans that let you choose your own payment each month.

We picked the lowest possible payment, the one that added to our balance each month instead of subtracting from it. And we added a line of credit with Wells Fargo.

The extra borrowing power was important, because while my income was growing rapidly it wasn’t enough to support all our expenses. Around that time, I left Merrill Lynch to become an independent financial adviser, so it was easy enough to convince ourselves that we were borrowing to pay for the start-up costs.

There was some truth to that, but we were also borrowing against the house to finance our lifestyle. The line between business expenses and personal ones is sometimes hard to draw when you run your own business, and during those heady times it seemed even harder. But in hindsight it is clear that we were spending more than we should have on things like recreational gear and family trips for ourselves and our four children.

It was extravagant, but it seemed modest compared to what some of our neighbors were doing. Our house was the smallest model in the neighborhood (though at 3,500 square feet it was hardly tiny), and we drove a Chevy and a VW. Cori and I and some of our friends had a lot of conversations comparing our spending habits to those around us. How can so-and-so afford a boat? How are people buying new trucks and four-wheelers and 5,000-square-foot homes? Do they know something we don’t know?

At times, it seemed as if maybe they did. I knew a builder of custom homes who urged me to buy one of his houses for close to $2 million. I told him there were at least a million reasons why I couldn’t do that. He looked at me like I just didn’t get it. He assured me the house was appraised for $200,000 more than the asking price, and that after I lived there I could take out a line of credit to live on while the house went up even further.

The crazy thing is, he was right. The place eventually sold for more than $3 million. When I heard that, I felt a little silly that we hadn’t taken that risk.

As for our spending, we told each other that we’d catch up later, as my income and the value of our home continued to rise. As late as February 2006, a comparable home in our neighborhood sold for $998,000. We made the classic mistake of projecting recent trends — even extreme ones — into the future.

But slowly — and then increasingly — we began to have a different kind of conversation, “When are we going to stop and just get on top of this?” The solution was always making more money, not cutting back. The fact is, it’s much easier to set a goal of making more money in the future than it is to buckle down and cut back today.

We never really worried that things would go to pieces the way they ultimately did. But then came the collapse in the stock market. I had clients calling in tears and breaking down in my office. People who had never worried about their portfolios were calling me from their vacations. It was like talking people in off a ledge virtually every day, maybe three times a day, for maybe 90 days in a row.

The range of potential outcomes had gotten so broad in people’s minds that it now included the end of the world. What they wanted and needed more than anything was reassurance that things would be O.K. and that they should stick with the investment plans we had created together. Providing that reassurance had been my job for 10 years or more, but this was the first time that I really wondered if my advice was right.

It was my job to assist them, but I found it incredibly stressful. It didn’t help that we were in increasingly dire straits ourselves. My income fell about 20 percent because my take-home pay depended on the amount of money I managed. At the same time, our cost for health insurance and property taxes kept increasing, and the payment on our mortgage reset higher as well.

By then, housing prices in Las Vegas were falling quickly, and the bank had cut off our home equity line of credit. We quickly got rid of a car and stopped taking trips. I moved into a smaller workspace and cut back on my administrative and marketing costs. Even so, we found ourselves using credit cards as emergency stopgaps.

Then, the sickness set in. The pain would start in my stomach, and then I’d spend six hours vomiting. It happened once, then three months later it happened again, then one month later it happened yet again. Eventually, it was happening every couple of weeks. The doctors couldn’t find a physical cause.

Right around that time, it became clear that we might need to get back to Utah, where 90 percent of my (still nervous) clients lived. We spent the summer of 2009 living in my in-laws’ basement in Salt Lake City, while I tried to stabilize my financial planning business. By that fall, I was convinced we had to move back permanently to save the business. But that meant we faced the question of what to do about the house.

By then, we owed over $200,000 more than our original loan balance.

Borrowing that much had seemed to make sense when the value of the home was still rising substantially every year, taking our net worth higher with it. But at that point, there was no way we could sell the home for anywhere near what we owed. Some of my friends were already doing short sales, where the bank agrees to let you sell the house for less than your loan balance. I was also aware you had to be three months behind in your payments before the bank would talk to you about the possibility.

At first, I dismissed the idea of a short sale. Late that summer, I sat down with a really close friend in Las Vegas, someone I looked up to. He cut to the heart of the matter right away: Why, he wanted to know, were we still making the payments?

Because I have a moral obligation, I said. You pay your debts.

He proceeded to explain that I didn’t have a moral obligation to the bank. I had a moral obligation to my family. I had a contractual obligation to the bank, along with a clear moral obligation to be honest in my dealings. What he was asking was this: Which is more important? Your contractual obligation to the bank or your obligation to your family to preserve your ability to make a living?

I had never thought of it that way. But it made sense. I summed it up to myself like this: I have a contractual obligation to the bank (as well as a moral obligation not to skirt the consequences of breaking it: losing my house and wrecking my credit score). But my moral obligation to my family trumps the contractual obligation to the bank.

Cori and I thought about this for months, but we finally decided to let the house go and stop making payments so we could pursue a mortgage modification or a short sale. The fact was, we didn’t have a choice. We simply couldn’t afford it.

I remained troubled by the ethical implications of what I was doing, but I soon started seeing some of my friend’s arguments echoed in the work of Brent T. White, a law professor at the University of Arizona. He and others were arguing that homeowners should act more like companies — taking into account legal and economic reasons for stopping a regular payment rather than “perceived moral obligations.”

That was reassuring in the dead of night while I sat in front of the computer trying to make sense of the world financial markets and my own personal situation. I remember being relieved at discovering a way to frame my decision.

But we didn’t know what would happen in the harsh light of day, and we were scared to death. Would we be kicked out of our house? What would the neighbors think? What would the children think? We worried about the stress on our relationship and even the survival of our marriage. I felt like a complete failure.

We looked into a mortgage modification, thinking it might let us keep the house and rent it out after we moved. But the offer from Wells Fargo, which owned our loans by then, was too modest. That meant we could either walk away from the house or work with the bank to do an orderly short sale.

A bank representative came to the house and met with us. He was such a nice guy. Cori had treated it like an open house, and the place was spotless. The guy said he’d never met anyone more qualified for their short sale program.

Somehow, even in that horrid market, we sold the home for $531,000. That was in late August 2010. In exchange, the lender released us from both our first and second mortgages. Today, Zillow estimates the home’s value at $505,000.

We were pretty low when we packed up to leave. We hadn’t told anyone about the short sale — not family and only one or two friends. But we sensed that people knew anyway.

We borrowed a truck from a friend who owns a wood mill to move our belongings. Back in Utah, we found a house to rent— much to my relief and after months of being terrified that we’d never be able to find a landlord willing to take a chance on us. I had to tell the owner what had happened. He looked at our personal references and let us lease the house anyway.

We love where we live now. Still, there are consequences. We lost our home. It’s not clear when we’ll be in a position to become homeowners again.

But the worst thing was my sense of complete failure and powerlessness when I realized that things were out of control and that it was my fault. These days, there is still a sense of genuine regret that I screwed up and hurt myself and other people. I still worry about what others think of my behavior, which is one reason I haven’t shared this story with many people until recently.

We have a friend who is under water on his mortgage even though he has lived within his means and done everything right. He’s sticking with his mortgage for as long as he can.

Someone recently asked me what I’d say to people like him. I guess I’m saying it now. As I was writing this article, I pulled behind a truck with a bumper sticker, “Honk if I’m paying your mortgage.”

I thought about that for a while. I guess one of the ideas behind that bumper sticker is that people like Cori and me who couldn’t afford to pay off our mortgages are to blame for the financial crisis and the bank bailouts that followed. This isn’t the place to explain the causes of the economic slump, and I’m not the guy to do it.

Still, the questions linger. As I ponder all this — and I think about it a lot — it occurs to me that we are a nation of risk-takers. Some of us were overoptimistic; some were ignorant; some were deluded; some were greedy; some just had bad timing. We erred to different degrees. Our experiences varied; each story is different. Now you know mine.

The experience has changed just about everything about how I do financial planning and the advice I give in public. For one thing, I am less quick to judge other people’s financial behavior. I’m also more inclined to take into account personal factors that determine how people behave around money.

I have a friend who is going through a tough time financially. He has a high income, but is burdened by debt from a few real estate deals that went south. He continues to take fairly expensive ski trips. That would seem irresponsible in his situation, and maybe they are.

But I now realize that it is not that simple. Maybe those trips are keeping the guy alive, or saving his marriage or keeping him sane enough to work.

I have another good friend who borrowed against his house to pay for a therapist. Unless you were walking in his shoes you might think that was stupid, but it saved his life and changed his career. It ended up being one of the best investments he ever made.

The process of making financial decisions is about more than building a spreadsheet to calculate the answer, because life rarely fits cleanly into a spreadsheet. Our decisions often appear irrational until we understand the whole story.

I’ve also learned some things about risk. Risk is an arbitrary concept, until you experience it. And I’ve noticed myself focusing more on the consequences of something going wrong than just the probability of that happening. As a result, I tend to urge my clients to make decisions that err on the side of caution.

As for Cori and me, things are much better now. Moving back to Utah clearly was the right choice. The business is doing well, and we’ve managed to pay down most of our debt. It would be easy to say that we’ve learned our lesson, that we’ll never screw up again.

But it’s not that simple. At times I’m absolutely clear about what makes sense. Then ordinary life choices arise, and things can get cloudy. Should our children play sports that cost money? What kind of family vacation is O.K.? How much is enough?

We’re still working on that last one. But we are asking the question, repeatedly. And the temptation to overspend, to go for it, to tell ourselves that things will work out in the long run, is tempered by a feeling that something big is at stake.

All I have to do to remind myself of that is to remember what it felt like to stand outside the kitchen window two years ago, looking in on my life, and thinking I might not get it back.
299 2011-11-09 Walter B. Wriston, the vaunted former chairman of Citibank, famously said that risk was a four-letter word. Vikram S. Pandit, chief executive of the larger successor organization, Citigroup, reckons it has nine letters: benchmark.

Mr. Pandit is championing an idea to make it easier to compare the way banks assess risk. To accomplish this, he wants to start with a standard, hypothetical portfolio of assets agreed to by regulators the world over. Each financial institution would run this benchmark collection through its risk models and spit out four numbers: loan loss reserve requirements, value-at-risk, stress test results and the tally of risk-weighted assets. The findings would be made public.

Then, Mr. Pandit wants the same financial firms to run the same measures against their own balance sheets — and to publish those results, too. That way, not only can investors and regulators compare similar risk outputs across institutions for their actual portfolios, but the numbers for the benchmark portfolio would allow them to see how aggressively different firms test for risks.

Such a system would be a giant leap from current practice. Broad value-at-risk figures have been largely discredited. And while in theory there is some standardization dictated by Basel capital accords, like the zero weighting ascribed to sovereign debt, in practice banks run their own numbers using different assumptions.

There are also gaps between European and American banks — for instance in the calculation of risk-weighted assets — that make comparison unreliable. Few consider Bank of America’s Tier 1 ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets an apples-to-apples comparison with, say, Santander’s.

Regulators have tried to square the circle with stress tests. The American effort in 2009 helped draw a line under the worst of the financial panic, though details of the results were largely kept under wraps and therefore provided little extra help for investors. Later European exams proved insufficiently stressful.
300 2011-11-09 That Cooper Union is facing a financial challenge in the current economic environment should come as no surprise. Maintaining a premier academic institution that is free has been a perennial challenge throughout the college’s storied history.

In 2001, we faced a similar financial test. The college was virtually out of cash, and the endowment had dipped below $100 million. During that economic downturn, we also considered, though not publicly, a wide range of possible solutions, including introducing tuition.

Fortunately, we were able to find alternative sources of revenues, and by 2008 had achieved a balanced budget, positive cash flow and an endowment in excess of $600 million. Developing Cooper Union’s underperforming real estate assets played a significant role in the college’s recovery.

Cooper Union has been a critical part of the evolution of New York City and has contributed mightily to the scientific, cultural and social infrastructure of the nation for more than a century and a half. It is far too important an institution not to continue to prevail. I’m confident that the current leaders, like those before them, will find a solution to the current challenge.

The writer is president emeritus of Cooper Union.
301 2011-11-09 Before the board of trustees met Tuesday evening, two trustees, who insisted on anonymity to discuss internal matters, expressed similar views.

George Campbell Jr., who retired last summer after 11 years as president, asserted in an interview on Tuesday that Cooper’s financial problems had always been well documented in public records like financial statements, reports on trustees’ meetings and his annual addresses on the state of the college. And he noted that the idea of charging tuition had come up several times in the past.

But Dr. Campbell also acknowledged that he had not been as direct as Dr. Bharucha had been about the trouble, or about possible solutions, and said that even now he would not be so open if he were still in office. “Frankly, I think it’s a mistake to have this discussion now in the public domain, before doing all the hard work to see whether there are viable alternatives,” he said.

Dr. Bharucha and Mark L. Epstein, chairman of the trustees, held a flurry of meetings Monday and Tuesday with students, alumni and staff members, trying to build a consensus behind Dr. Bharucha’s plan to have a task force investigate options and report back next spring. The president said charging tuition would be a last resort, and would not apply to anyone now enrolled.

Cooper Union was founded in 1859 to provide free education to working-class students, though in its early decades those who could pay did so. It has been tuition-free since 1902. Officials say that for most of the last two decades, Cooper Union, which focuses on engineering, art and architecture, has run a deficit, dipping into the principal of its endowment to pay for operations. Dr. Bharucha said that the college needed to find new revenue of $28 million a year by 2018, or about one-quarter of its operating budget.

Mr. Epstein cited Cooper’s low rate of donations from alumni, compared with other schools, as a significant part of its problem.

Dr. Campbell, the previous president, said that he improved alumni fund-raising in his tenure, but that it would never match elite colleges, which have fewer students from poor families, and fewer graduates who become struggling artists.

He defended his financial record over all, insisting that he had put the college on a sounder footing. “At one point in my first year, we had only about three months’ cash flow, and the endowment was down to about $100 million,” he said. By 2008, there was a balanced budget, he said, and the endowment had grown to around $600 million.

A large part of that increase was achieved not through fund-raising, but by selling assets, notably real estate near the school’s central building on Astor Place. The school had good timing, selling those properties and negotiating a new lease on the land beneath the Chrysler Building, which it owns, near the height of the real estate boom.

Cooper Union spent $166 million on a new academic building at 41 Cooper Square, replacing two outmoded buildings. To help pay for that and other projects, and to retire old bonds, it borrowed $175 million in 2006.

The college also invested $32 million of that borrowing in its endowment, calculating that the endowment investments would earn a higher rate of return than the interest Cooper was paying on the loan. That turned out to be a bad bet when the recession hit.

Dr. Campbell said that he thought charging tuition was unnecessary, and that there were business ventures the college could pursue to make up its budget gap.

So, he was asked, why did he not pursue them?

“In 2008, the college looked like it was in pretty good shape,” he responded. “We didn’t know we were entering into an extended period of economic decline.”
302 2011-11-09 A human rights group filed claims on Tuesday seeking at least $250 million in damages from the United Nations and its peacekeeping force in Haiti on behalf of 5,000 cholera victims. The group, the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti, accuses the peacekeeping force, known as Minustah, of inadequate troop screening and improper sanitation that, the group said, had caused Haiti’s cholera epidemic. More than 6,600 people have died and nearly a half-million more have been sickened since the cholera outbreak began in October 2010. The group also seeks establishment of a forum to hear its claims, which were filed with Minustah’s claims office in Port-au-Prince. United Nations peacekeeping missions generally have immunity from actions in national courts. A spokesman for the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations said the agency would have no comment until it had studied the claim.
303 2011-11-09 Mr. Lethem’s fullest and wittiest explication of this idea arrives in this volume’s now famous title essay, which appeared in Harper’s Magazine in 2007. A cosmic response to Harold Bloom’s seminal book “The Anxiety of Influence” (1973), Mr. Lethem’s essay argues for the eager plundering of earlier art to make new art. Even better, he makes this argument in a seamless piece of prose that, you discover at the end, is almost entirely plagiarized from other sources. This is a lovely trick shot, a think piece with its head happily up its own kazoo.

The bummer — for me, though perhaps not for you — about most of Mr. Lethem’s riffs on his idols is that his tastes and mine, plotted on a Venn diagram, would hardly overlap at all. A little Philip K. Dick, J. G. Ballard and John Cassavetes, for me, go a long way. And about the whole Marvel comics thing, I’m with John Leonard, who observed about Mr. Lethem in The New York Review of Books in 2003: “It is time this gifted writer closed his comic books for good.”

His tastes aren’t mine. Who cares? Not me, not usually. I like reading Mr. Lethem’s sentences, and I concur with H. L. Mencken, who wrote that the best critics “make the thing charming, and that is always a million times more important than making it true.” Yet lionizing underdog after underdog often leads Mr. Lethem to oversell their stuff, doing no favors to them or to him.

In an essay reprinted here about the novelist Thomas Berger, for example, he seizes the opportunity “to shout that Thomas Berger is one of America’s three or four greatest living novelists.” To which anyone who has been paying attention — no disrespect at all to the gifted Mr. Berger — can only reply: Dude, please.

Several of the essays here marinate in the fish sauce that is literary gossip. One is a short account of Mr. Lethem’s time at Bennington College in the 1980s (he dropped out during his sophomore year), where he knew Donna Tartt and Bret Easton Ellis. He had a falling-out with Ms. Tartt and, tongue slightly in cheek, wonders if she based the murdered Vermont farmer in her novel “The Secret History” on him.

About Mr. Ellis, he writes: “Bret stood perfectly for what outraged me at that school, and terrified me, too, the blithe conversion of privilege into artistic fame. It was inconvenient that I liked him.” On the morning of 9/11, Mr. Lethem confesses, he was sleeping off a hangover after a decadent night in Manhattan with Mr. Ellis. He compares Mr. Ellis to a child star, unable to grow up. “I still found him a figure of sympathy, like rooting for Jose Canseco or Barry Bonds.”

This same essay includes a drive-by tasering of Jonathan Franzen, about whom he declares, “His fame, then and now, had a Chauncey Gardiner quality, seeming called into being by a novelist-shaped vacancy on the cover of Time.”

In an essay called “My Disappointment Critic,” Mr. Lethem zeroes in on The New Yorker’s book critic, James Wood, who reviewed his novel “The Fortress of Solitude” less than positively in 2003. Mr. Lethem used to feel that Mr. Wood was “the most apparently gifted close reader of our time.” Not so much anymore.

For a sneaker-wearing boy from Brooklyn like Mr. Lethem, suddenly Mr. Wood’s “air of erudite amplitude veiled — barely — a punitive parochialism.” Mr. Wood, he says, writes like “an aristocrat who never really expected those below him to understand the function of the social order.” Another snooty writer, fired from Mr. Lethem’s canon.

This feisty, freewheeling book also includes a very funny essay about being on a high-level book tour in America, about being whisked from radio and TV stations to lavish nightly meals. One problem, Mr. Lethem says, is that there’s rarely time to perform certain ablutions.

Thus when you listen to writers being interviewed on some radio shows, he says, “you must know this: They are holding in a bowel movement.” Can our eyes unread that sentence? Can we ever listen to Terry Gross the same way again?
304 2011-11-09 Stocks gyrated Tuesday before ending higher on a day of significant political developments in Italy, the latest country to come under fire in the drawn-out euro zone debt crisis.

Powered by an early rally in Europe, the stock market in the United States rose slightly before a budget vote in Italy that had taken on immense importance for the prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, after the recent defections of several lawmakers in his party. It passed with numerous abstentions, but Mr. Berlusconi lost his absolute majority.

Stocks then declined or were flat in afternoon trading until about two hours before the end of the session, when news that Mr. Berlusconi had offered to resign — after Parliament passes an austerity package — first emerged.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 0.84 percent, or 101.79 points, to 12,170. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 1.17 percent to 1,276, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was up 1.2 percent to 2,727.

There were no big reactions in credit markets, however. Italian 10-year bonds remained above their 6.7 percent yield, close to the level that forced other countries such as Greece to seek bailouts.

Investors have long been concerned that the debt ills in some of the smaller euro zone nations could spread to those with much bigger economies, a contagion that would be much harder to fix. They have been focusing on Italy of late because of concern about its high debt load, rising borrowing costs and stagnant economy. Interest rates on the country’s debt have hit their highest levels since the country joined the euro zone more than a decade ago.
305 2011-11-09 In Maine, where Republicans recently had ended same-day registration at polling places, voters decided to restore the practice, which Democrats support.

Despite the anger at Washington, voters did not appear to be in a throw-the-bums-out frame of mind at the city and state levels. In , Mayor Michael Nutter, a Democrat, won re-election, as did Mayor Greg Ballard, a Republican, in and Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, a Democrat, in . In , Greg Stanton, a Democrat, was the winner while in , Edwin M. Lee, the interim mayor, seemed poised to become that city’s first mayor of Chinese descent.

Steve Beshear, the Democratic governor of , was re-elected. In Mississippi, Phil Bryant will succeed Gov. , a fellow Republican, who was prevented by term limits from running for reelection.

And in something of a surprise, an attempt by Republicans in to take over the state Senate — and thereby take complete control of the state government — appeared stalled. In one district, the final vote showed the Republican candidate with an edge of fewer than 100 votes, putting the party within striking distance of a 20-20 tie with Democrats in the Senate. When the Senate is deadlocked, the lieutenant governor — a Republican — casts the tie-breaking vote.

But in , Republicans failed in their attempt to win control of the State Senate. Had they won a special election there, they would have likely been able to pass numerous measures, including a ban on , that had been blocked by Democrats.

In one of the biggest surprises of the night was Mississippi’s rejection of a far-reaching and stringent anti-abortion initiative known as the “personhood” amendment, which had inspired a ferocious national debate.

Initiative 26 would have amended the state Constitution to define life “to include every human being from the moment of fertilization, cloning or the functional equivalent thereof.”

Supporters, including evangelical Christians, said it would have stopped the murder of innocent life and sent a clarion moral call to the world. They said they expected that passage in Mississippi would have built support for similar laws in other states.

Opponents, led by and the , said the proposal would have outlawed all abortions, including in cases of and incest and when the mother’s life was in danger; would have barred morning-after pills and certain contraception such as IUD’s; and could have limited in vitro fertility procedures.

“The message from Mississippi is clear,” Nancy Keenan, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, said in a statement. “An amendment that allows politicians to further interfere in our personal, private medical decisions, including a woman’s right to choose safe, legal abortion, is unacceptable.”

The push for a personhood amendment split the country’s anti-abortion movement. Traditional leaders including the Roman Catholic bishops and National Right to Life opposed it on strategic grounds, fearing it would lead to a defeat and set back to their efforts to chip away at abortion rights.

Governor Barbour is a strong opponent of abortion rights but expressed skepticism about the amendment’s wording

“It’s unnecessarily ambiguous,” he told MSNBC on Tuesday. He also criticized the strategy of sending it to voters rather than to the Legislature — a blunder he attributed to people in , who wrote the measure — and said it would not be a good test case with which to try to overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that legalized abortion. Nonetheless, Mr. Barbour said, he had supported the measure because he believes that life begins at conception.
306 2011-11-09 The easy explanation for MF Global's downfall is that it was killed by Jon S. Corzine's risky trading bets. Yet MF Global was torpedoed not only by Mr. Corzine but by its board.     The board at MF Global is highly sophisticated and experienced. I...
307 2011-11-09 11:31 a.m. | Updated      PARIS  -- Credit Suisse has been ordered by the Swiss government to turn over account data on some wealthy American clients as part of a U.S. effort to crack down on tax evasion, the bank said on Tuesday....
308 2011-11-09 The number of people  leaving or receiving jobs picked up in September, the Labor Department reported Tuesday, a sign that that the labor market may be regaining its health.     Both hires and separations have been relatively stagnant in the last ...
309 2011-11-09 CASAGRANDE--Stephanie Worth, after several months of surgery and hospitalization Stephanie's life came to an end on January 5, 2011. She will be sorely missed by her cousins and other relatives as well as a host of friends and co-workers. A genero...
310 2011-11-10 The German-American pipeline was put in place before Jurgen Klinsmann, a German soccer legend, took over as coach of the United States national team, and the benefits are purely coincidental. But he is making the most of them....
311 2011-11-10 The German-American pipeline was put in place before Jurgen Klinsmann, a German soccer legend, took over as coach of the United States national team, and the benefits are purely coincidental. But he is making the most of them....
312 2011-11-10 The Danger of Contagion From Europe

As the European financial crisis has spread, it has strained banking institutions in Europe and around the world that hold large amounts of government and private debt. With Italy teetering, France’s banks, which are among the largest holders of Italian debt, are now under pressure.
313 2011-11-10 Jorge Posada said earlier this week that his Yankees career was most definitely over. The hard part would be deciding whether to retire. On Thursday night, one of Posada's former teammates, David Cone, appeared to give a bit of subtle advice....
314 2011-11-10 Jorge Posada said earlier this week that his Yankees career was most definitely over. The hard part would be deciding whether to retire. On Thursday night, one of Posada's former teammates, David Cone, appeared to give a bit of subtle advice....
315 2011-11-10 In its first over the air software update, Apple on Thursday issued a software update for the iOS 5 mobile platform that rectifies a battery problem on the iPhone 4S. The software update also adds missing multitasking gestures to the first iPad, f...
316 2011-11-10 A “60 Minutes” reporter has been asking questions about whether leaders influence over legislation gives them a leg up in making investment decisions....
317 2011-11-10 A "60 Minutes" reporter has been asking questions about whether leaders influence over legislation gives them a leg up in making investment decisions....
318 2011-11-10 New data from Flurry, a mobile analytics firm, estimates that the number of applications downloaded by owners of Android and Apple devices has risen 300 percent in the last year. The firm says this is partially because the smartphone market is now...
319 2011-11-10 New data from Flurry, a mobile analytics firm, estimates that the number of applications downloaded by owners of Android and Apple devices has risen 300 percent in the last year. The firm says this is partially because the smartphone market is now...
320 2011-11-10 What to do when iTunes does not play nice with Windows....
321 2011-11-10 What to do when iTunes does not play nice with Windows....
322 2011-11-10 Somebody at Apple took the challenges of the disabled seriously enough to write a complete, elegant and thoughtful feature that takes down most of the physical barriers to using an app phone....
323 2011-11-10 Somebody at Apple took the challenges of the disabled seriously enough to write a complete, elegant and thoughtful feature that takes down most of the physical barriers to using an app phone....
324 2011-11-10 An iPhone feature called EasyPay lets people take a picture of a product's bar code with the phone's camera, then buy it on the spot, using their iTunes account....
325 2011-11-10 An iPhone feature called EasyPay lets people take a picture of a product's bar code with the phone's camera, then buy it on the spot, using their iTunes account....
326 2011-11-10 Regulators ordered an audit of every American futures trading firm to verify that customer money is protected after roughly $600 million in client funds went missing from MF Global....
327 2011-11-10 The regulators' decision to audit every futures firm is meant to restore calm to a jittery industry after the collapse of MF Global....
328 2011-11-10 The acquisition is the latest move by Starbucks to diversify beyond coffee....
329 2011-11-10 The acquisition is the latest move by Starbucks to diversify beyond coffee. The deal will also reap a tidy profit for Fireman Capital Partners, the private equity firm that took control of Evolution Fresh last year....
330 2011-11-10 During last night's presidential debate, Rick Perry's odds of winning the Republican nomination halved within seconds on Intrade, an online market where people bet on the odds of various events,...
331 2011-11-10 During last night's presidential debate, Rick Perry's odds of winning the Republican nomination halved within seconds on Intrade, an online market where people bet on the odds of various events,...
332 2011-11-10 The chef has three Italian restaurants in New York but his fourth, Nicoletta, will be the first one with pizza....
333 2011-11-10 The chef has three Italian restaurants in New York but his fourth, Nicoletta, will be the first one with pizza....
334 2011-11-10 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
335 2011-11-10 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
336 2011-11-10 I have been complaining for some time now that Reinhart and Rogoff think that the time is always 1931 and that we are always Austria--that the great fiscal crisis is about to erupt and send us lurching down toward Great Depression II.

Well, right now guess what? The time is 1931, and we are Austria.

The Federal Reserve needs to buy up every single European bond owned by every single American financial institution for cash before the increase in eurorisk leads American finance to tighten credit again and send us down into the double dip.

The Federal Reserve Needs to do so now.

This Is The Way The Euro Ends: Not with a Bang, But with a Bunga-Bunga: [W]ith Italian 10-years now well above 7 percent, we’re now in territory where all the vicious circles get into gear — and European leaders seem like deer caught in the headlights. And as Martin Wolf says today, the unthinkable — a euro breakup — has become all too thinkable: A eurozone built on one-sided deflationary adjustment will fail. That seems certain. If the leaders of the eurozone insist on that policy, they will have to accept the result. Every even halfway plausible route to euro salvation now depends on a radical change in policy by the European Central Bank. Yet as John Quiggin says in today’s Times, the ECB has instead been part of the problem. I believe that the ECB rate hike earlier this year will go down in history as a classic example of policy idiocy… the sheer stupidity of obsessing over inflation when the euro was obviously at risk boggles the mind. I still find it hard to believe that the euro will fail; but it seems equally hard to believe that Europe will do what’s needed to avoid that failure. Irresistible force, meet immovable object — and watch the explosion.
337 2011-11-10 The birthday of the founder of Sikhism....
338 2011-11-10 The birthday of the founder of Sikhism....
339 2011-11-10 The one-off roadster completed the drive in 89 hours, with some unforeseen pit stops -- none of them mechanically related....
340 2011-11-10 The one-off roadster completed the drive in 89 hours, with some unforeseen pit stops -- none of them mechanically related....
341 2011-11-10 Medical students learn little about gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues in medical school, a new study reports....
342 2011-11-10 If European leaders cannot agree on how to stabilize their financial system, chaos and inflation seem sure to follow, an economist writes....
343 2011-11-10 If European leaders cannot agree on how to stabilize their financial system, chaos and inflation seem sure to follow, an economist writes....
344 2011-11-10 On Nov. 10, 1982, the first visitors toured the newly completed Vietnam Veterans Memorial near the National Mall in Washington....
345 2011-11-10 On Nov. 10, 1982, the first visitors toured the newly completed Vietnam Veterans Memorial near the National Mall in Washington....
346 2011-11-10 The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled last year that there is no conflict between the California law and the federal one because the state had merely disqualified certain kinds of animals from being used for food. That is different, the appeals court said, from issuing additional or different regulations concerning the operations of slaughterhouses.

“States aren’t limited to excluding animals from slaughter on a species-wide basis,” Chief Judge Alex Kozinski wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel of the court.

Similarly, he wrote, the California law “withdraws from slaughter animals that are unable to walk to their death.”

At Wednesday’s argument, Steven J. Wells, a lawyer for the National Meat Association, which is challenging the law, said that so fine a distinction was unworkable.

“It’s easy to identify what’s a horse and keep it off the premises,” Mr. Wells said. “That’s not true with nonambulatory animals.”

Susan K. Smith, a deputy California attorney general, disagreed. “When an animal becomes nonambulatory, it is readily apparent,” she said.

More broadly, Ms. Smith said the state was entitled to bar the slaughter of both certain species of animals and certain kinds of animals. In both cases, she said, “California is not regulating animals that are going to be turned into meat.”

Justice Elena Kagan seemed uncomfortable with where that argument was leading.

“But then you have to, you know, ask yourself the question: Are nonambulatory swine so easily excludable as horses?” she said. “Why couldn’t the state then exclude swine with various kinds of diseases? And then it would be clear that the state was doing something that the federal statute is supposed to be doing.”

The federal government supported the trade association in the case, National Meat Association v. Harris, No. 10-224 .

Though much of the argument was a semantic tangle, there was at least one moment of clarity, when Justice Antonin Scalia reviewed the broader rules about which species may be slaughtered for food. “Lassie and Kitty are no good,” he said, “but Dobbin is all right.”
347 2011-11-10 Still is not an auction-house staple, nor is he an artist who has come on the market often, but Sotheby’s was selling four of his works, all on behalf of the City and County of Denver, which was raising money for an endowment for the new Clyfford Still Museum opening there on Nov. 18.

Patricia Still, who died in 2005, had bequeathed the paintings to the city. When Sotheby’s won the consignment in August, it was asked to sell the four works to a museum as a group. Denver gave the auction house a deadline of Sept. 19 to do so, but when it was unsuccessful Denver and Sotheby’s decided to auction them individually on Wednesday night.

Another top price was paid for “1947-Y-No. 2,” a tamer Still canvas of black, yellow, red and blue that was expected to bring $15 million to $20 million. Another telephone bidder bought the painting, paying $31.4 million.

With a major Gerhard Richter retrospective having opened at the Tate Modern in London last month, the appetite for that German artist’s work seemed bottomless. Sotheby’s was selling a group of colorful abstract canvases by Mr. Richter, including “Abstraktes Bild,” a dreamy 1997 canvas of pinks and blues that was estimated at $9 million to $12 million. It made a record price for the artist at auction when a telephone bidder paid $20.8 million.

Another top seller by Mr. Richter was “Gudrun,” a brightly colored painting from 1987 dominated by red and yellow diagonals, which brought $18 million, more than twice its $7.5 million high estimate. In 2001 it sold for $783,106 at Sotheby’s in London.

“Painterly paintings” was how John Elderfield, the Museum of Modern Art’s chief curator emeritus of painting and sculpture, explained the appeal of the Richters and Stills. (He organized the blockbuster de Kooning retrospective now at MoMA.) “Maybe it is a de Kooning effect, with Richters and Stills flying off the walls.”

Francis Bacon’s “Three Studies for a Self-Portrait,” a 1967 triptych of the artist depicted against a green background, also made a strong price, selling to a telephone bidder for $19.6 million. It had been expected to sell for $15 million to $20 million.

Sotheby’s did not have the quality of paintings by Warhol that Christie’s did on Tuesday night, and the results were mixed. One of the artist’s “Last Supper” paintings, this one from 1986, which had been estimated at $5.5 million to $7.5 million, brought $6.5 million to a telephone bidder.

As the audience was spilling out of the salesroom, reeling from the strong results, Lucy Mitchell-Innes, a former Sotheby’s expert who is now a Manhattan dealer, noted that on the electronic currency board there, rubles were missing, perhaps a sign that Russian buyers were going to be less in evidence this season.

“People still really enjoy the auction process,” she said. “It’s enthralling, they get a thrill and they get to take something home besides.”
348 2011-11-10 In Wednesday night’s Republican debate on the economy, Herman Cain suggested that the chief problem holding back companies was regulatory uncertainty. Other candidates, including Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, have made similar claims about regulatory burdens.

But in surveys of small businesses conducted by the National Federation of Independent Business, a plurality of companies consistently say that the “single biggest problem” they face is low sales, not red tape or taxes.

The Labor Department’s data on mass layoffs echo this finding. For the last three quarters, “governmental regulations/intervention” have accounted for less than 1 percent of layoffs.

As for hiring, one reason to believe that a lack of consumer demand, rather than regulations, is discouraging employers is that businesses are not even fully using their existing staff and equipment. If regulatory requirements were so burdensome but the demand was there, companies would most likely step up their use of what they already had on hand.

But the average length of the work week is still shorter than it was before the recession began, and has been basically flat since the start of this year.
349 2011-11-10 Last-ditch efforts by the governor of Alabama to prevent a record-breaking municipal bankruptcy in his state broke down on Wednesday, as the Jefferson County Commission voted 4 to 1 to declare bankruptcy on roughly $4 billion of debt.

After the vote, lawyers for the county filed a Chapter 9 petition in federal bankruptcy court in Birmingham, Ala., according to one of the lawyers.

At $4 billion, Jefferson County’s bankruptcy eclipses the $1.7 billion bankruptcy filing by Orange County, Calif., in December 1994, the previous record. Jefferson County’s debt grew out of poorly conceived efforts to finance a court-ordered rebuilding of its decrepit sewer system. The county used a complicated combination of debt instruments and derivatives that was supposed to save money, but it failed in 2008, leaving it with more debt than it could repay.

David Carrington, the County Commission’s president, apologized to Alabama’s other towns and counties as he cast his vote for bankruptcy. He said he knew that a municipal bankruptcy in one part of the state could harm the credit ratings of others, but he said Jefferson County simply had no other choice.

“The county has negotiated extensively and in good faith with its creditors,” he said. “Those negotiations have not produced a deal that fairly treats the county and its citizens, and there is no reason to believe that further out-of-court negotiations will lead to a fair, acceptable result.”
350 2011-11-13 The work is indicative of a significant shift in local attitudes toward affordable housing, propelled in part by strong political leadership that has been “fundamentally proactive” on the issue, Mr. Berman said. “This is a town that has become socially so progressive — contrary to its image — even as it is still fiscally conservative,” he said.

One of the most affluent communities in Fairfield County, as reflected in its $1.5 million median home price, New Canaan has a reputation for exclusivity that goes back decades. The town was an early adopter of zoning regulations, in the 1930s, and its layout has long favored house lots of at least two acres.

In the 1970s, the town was the target of a lawsuit claiming that the large-lot zoning was meant to keep out low-income people. A nonprofit group led by a former New Canaan town planner filed the suit, which was ultimately dismissed. But it was a likely factor in the town’s development of 60 units of subsidized housing in the interim.

Avalon’s suit against the town in the ’90s was closely watched because it was only the second ever filed under the state’s affordable housing law, known as 8-30g. Adopted in 1989, the law put the burden of proof on towns to demonstrate that a proposed affordable development would be injurious.

At the time, the law applied to developments in which at least 20 percent of the units were reserved for lower-income levels. Avalon (now AvalonBay Communities) became skilled at using the law’s appeals process to gain entry to suburbs that frowned upon large rental complexes.

Its suit against New Canaan was the first 8-30g case in “one of the more affluent towns,” said Timothy Hollister, a lawyer, who represented Avalon. The ruling “showed people that 8-30g was going to be applicable in towns that thought affordable housing wasn’t part of their mix.”

Avalon agreed to a land swap to end the dispute. In return for Avalon’s downtown site next to the train station, the town deeded a larger parcel to Avalon, away from downtown. The company built a 96-unit complex with 21 below-market-rate rentals.

The recent expansion of the Mill Apartments is the first affordable housing project built in town since then, and brings the total number of affordable units to roughly 200. The work was long overdue, in the view of Jeb Walker, the town’s departing first selectman. A barracks-style complex built in the 1950s, it was “an eyesore and a disgrace,” he said.

The old structures were demolished. The new complex consists of two-story colonial-style buildings with columned entryways and small patios. In addition to the aesthetic improvements, the redevelopment also made more efficient use of the site by more than doubling the number of apartments, to 40 from 16.

Mr. Walker acknowledges that support for the housing is not universal — and says some people are of the opinion that a New Canaan address should be the reward for hard work. But, he said, awareness is growing about the benefit of such housing to people who work in town, and “seniors who were rich when they were working, but aren’t rich anymore.”

The one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments are limited to households earning no more than 60 percent of area median income, said Noel Cooke, the president of the Phoenix Management Corporation of Stamford, which manages the property. For a single person, the maximum income level is $53,220. For a family of four, it is $75,960.

Town employees receive preference for available units. All 40 units are currently leased.

Mr. Walker credited Mr. Berman with piecing together financing for the project, and navigating a state housing bureaucracy that to him appeared nothing short of “insanity.”

Two local banks provided crucial investments. The Bank of New Canaan bought tax-exempt bonds issued by the authority. People’s United Bank bought low-income housing tax credits.

To ensure continued investment in affordable housing, New Canaan has established a trust financed by a 1 percent fee on all building permits. The fee “underscores the commitment New Canaan has to affordable housing,” said Paul Giusti, a Board of Finance member and former selectman. “It’s one thing to say you’re for it, and it’s another to designate funding for it.”
351 2011-11-13 Returns could potentially be even greater if the retiree bought a vacation or retirement home on the cheap. “I think there’s going to be fire sales and they’ll have opportunities to grab assets at fire-sale values,” said DaRayl Davis, a money manager and the author of “Economic Secrets of the New Retirement Environment” (Xlibris, 2009).

Financial advisers also contend that it makes little sense to pay off the mortgage on an asset whose value is still depreciating. Indeed, home prices in the country’s top 20 markets have fallen more than 30 percent, on average, from their peak in June 2006, with those in Las Vegas, for instance, tumbling 60 percent, according to Alex Barron, the founder and president of the Housing Research Center.

Prices in New York City are off 22 percent from their peak, he said, adding that he expected home prices to fall another 5 percent before bottoming out in the next one to two years.

Mr. Davis is even more bearish, predicting that prices could slide another 30 percent. “That bubble has burst,” he said, “and it’s not done deflating yet.”

Mr. Nicholas recommends that any homeowner with a mortgage rate above 7 percent try to refinance to a lower rate if the refinancing costs are not too high.

Then there are the tax implications of losing the mortgage deduction. These are only relevant, Ms. Shultz noted, to owners whose principal is less than two-thirds paid off. Once the two-thirds threshold has been reached, the interest deduction, if any, is small and doesn’t justify keeping the mortgage.

Of course, the good feeling of owning a home debt-free should not be minimized. “Trading off a known 4 percent interest rate for an unknown market return may leave some retirees jittery,” said Drew Denning, the vice president for retiree services of the Principal Financial Group.

For those who do opt to pay off a mortgage early — perhaps they want to eliminate debts to pay for their children’s college — the experts suggest that they have at least 12 months of living expenses in cash available outside their retirement accounts after the home is paid off. That is double the amount normally recommended in good times.

Mr. Denning recommends as much as two years’ worth of living costs. “The ability to find another job that pays a comparable amount of money is very challenging in today’s environment,” he said. “And going to your bank to take out a loan when you’re unemployed would not be one of the more friendly visits you’ll have.”
352 2011-11-13 “The Letters of Ernest Hemingway,” covering the years 1907-22, is the first of more than a dozen planned volumes, collecting just about everything he ever wrote that was not meant for publication. And, to be clear, those of us who admire his fiction should take a moment to acknowledge that these letters were not intended for us. To his executors: “I hereby request and direct you not to publish, or consent to the publication by others, of any such letters.” We are snooping. If you love the artist’s work, if you respect what you think you know of the man, then you can honor his wishes and stop reading right here. On the other hand, Pauline, the second of his four wives, burned her share of the letters, and their son Patrick said of that decision: “At least she was logical. She didn’t want her correspondence to be immortalized. That was the way to deal with it.”

The existence of some of these documents (predating Hemingway’s fame) is close to a miracle, and “The Letters” is without question a spectacular scholarly achievement. Letters about boyhood fishing trips in Michigan that resemble his early Nick Adams stories; notes passed in class; brave and boastful letters home from the hospital in Italy after his wounding in World War I with descriptions of artillery that prefigure “A Farewell to Arms”; courtship letters to his first wife; gossipy letters from Paris describing the literary world he was discovering: these are extraordinary. From 1922, to Sherwood Anderson: “Gertrude Stein and me are just like brothers. . . . Joyce has a most goddamn wonderful book. . . . I’ve been teaching Pound to box with little success.” Sigh.

But of course, complete means complete, and there is much here that is repetitive and dull, or merely cute. In 1907, after all, Papa Hemingway was 8. The little boy writes his father, in that honest, one-true-sentence Hem style: “I put sone fresh staw in flossys nest. All the squabs died.” In other letters, he asks his mother permission to wear long pants, he orders some baseball posters, he thanks his grandfather for the ring-toss set. That storied beast, the general reader, may find his skimming finger getting itchy. And, too, the project’s editorial precision can shade into the precious, even fetishistic: “Hemingway’s occasionally uncrossed t’s and undotted i’s appear correctly without editorial comment.”

Besides honoring Hemingway’s wish that we not read his letters, you might also want to stop because there is much not to like about the man as he reveals himself in his correspondence. He is, to be fair, still young even at the close of this volume, but a reader’s wishful thinking struck me as I marked yet another occasion of casual racism and anti-Semitism, grudge-­bearing and bullying, braggadocio and brutality: I began to hope the letter-­obsessed young man (who is also sociable, funny, insightful, tender, hard-working, dutiful, ambitious, kind) might grow up to become some other man than the one I know is coming.

The photo album “Hemingway: A Life in Pictures,” assembled by a team including his granddaughter Mariel Hemingway, offers snapshots and portraits starting from his infancy (when his mother famously, and perhaps formatively, dressed him as a girl for six years) until shortly before his suicide in 1961. It also includes reproductions of passports, family baptism records, bullfight tickets, rough drafts of “A Moveable Feast” and military citations. (The biographer Scott Donaldson memorably described Hem as “one of the most decorated non­combatants in military history.”) There are also letters to Hemingway, including the Dear John note (“Ernie, dear boy”) from Agnes von Kurowsky, the nurse who broke his heart and thereby became a seed for some wickedly bitter short stories and “A Farewell to Arms.” All of this is interesting precisely in proportion to how much Hemingway and his myth matter to you.

For the editors of this collection, that mythic life has devoured and dissolved Hemingway’s actual work almost entirely. On the one hand, they write in their introduction, “If we think that Ernest’s writing is a simple transformation of his life story, we are mistaken.” But they continually insist just the opposite, pleased to point out what they view as proof that his fiction is nonfiction, that it will tell us about the man himself and his relations with those around him. Of Hemingway’s injury on the Italian front, they write: “There are contradictory . . . accounts of what really happened. . . . The most authentic version is undoubtedly that depicted in ‘A Farewell to Arms’ and stories.” Really? The undoubted truth is not in eyewitness reports or military citations or Hemingway’s own letters, but in work specifically labeled as fiction?

This recurrent notion that one of the century’s great novelists couldn’t (or couldn’t be bothered to) make stuff up is exemplified in their extraordinary caption to an extraordinary photo. A group of friends sits drinking at a table in Pamplona. “From left to right: Jake Barnes (Ernest . . .), Brett Ashley (Lady Duff Twysden . . .), Robert Cohn (Harold Loeb).” Jake Barnes, Brett Ashley and Robert Cohn are, of course, fictional characters in the novel “The Sun Also Rises.” Ernest Hemingway, Lady Duff Twysden and Harold Loeb, drinking at the table in the photo, were real people.

Hemingway brought this confusion upon himself. He certainly blurred the distinction between his life and his fiction. He shaped real people and events into stories, but he also explicitly said stories and memories were different. The fiction was meant to serve a larger purpose. It seems the life project of some scholars (and now even his granddaughter) is to shout him down, to remind us only to read his great works small.

Also, for those who are into this sort of thing, “Hemingway: A Life in Pictures” has no lack of photos of him grinning next to animals he has just killed: rhinos, buffaloes, lions, marlin.

Marlin and other deep-sea game — whined about, obsessively cataloged, literally machine-gunned — play a starring role in Paul Hendrickson’s heartbreaking but peculiarly uneven semi-­biography, “Hemingway’s Boat.”

Superficially, the book can be summarized thus: Hemingway was not an absolute swine to absolutely everyone absolutely all of the time, but it was a close thing. Still, he suffered so much in his life that he should get credit for those occasions when he behaved decently. Also, he liked to fish, especially from his boat.

And yet, though that is most of the book, it is the least important part. The title’s two characters are not really what inspire Hendrickson’s best writing.

“Hemingway’s Boat” includes some of the most moving, beautiful pieces of biography I have ever read, except — and, tempting though it may be, please don’t omit this exception for publicity purposes — except when the book is discussing Ernest Hemingway and his boat. Hendrickson set out to write “far less a biography than . . . an evocation, with other lives streaming in,” and in this he has succeeded magnificently. Again and again, he wanders off the main path to research and write the biographies of people only tangential to Hemingway’s life: his high school friends, museum naturalists, reporters, houseguests, fans, boat salesmen and, most movingly (and not tangentially), Gregory/Gloria, the writer’s tormented third child. Hendrickson, the author of “Sons of Mississippi,” reveals how people who knew him were affected by Hemingway, sometimes years after only a brief meeting with him, how his influence echoed on and on in ordinary people’s lives.

Hendrickson faults previous biographers for their lack of compassion, and his own store of it is seemingly bottomless. In the best of these streaming “other lives,” he seems to become another writer. He leaves behind the Hemingwayesque mannerisms and strained connections that mar his writing about the novelist (and his boat), and instead his two strongest gifts — that compassion and his research and reporting prowess — combine to masterly effect.

To take only the finest example of several brilliant pieces: In 1950, Walter Houk, a young American diplomat in Havana, accepted an invitation from his girlfriend to visit the house of her boss, the famous writer for whom she was a secretary. Hendrickson traces what resulted from this introduction to Hemingway: kindness, fishing trips, talks, a wedding banquet for the Houks given by the writer. Walter Houk went on to other things after his years of friendship with Hemingway: a marriage, a career spanning continents, compromises, family, retirement, widowhood, old age, creeping infirmity. Hendrickson’s Houk embodies all the manly virtues Hemingway neglected. The diplomat is loyal, kind, satisfied, forgiving, self-effacing and self-sacrificing. Houk’s loyalty extends especially to Hemingway, his host of decades before, whom Houk refuses to judge, despite Hem’s undoubted personal failings, despite the clumsy pass he made at Houk’s girlfriend.

Decades after that friendship with Hemingway in Cuba, Hendrickson found Houk “on an ordinary street, in a tucked-away corner of greater Los Angeles,” befriended him, wrote his biography and folded it into this strange and often lovely book. As I followed the story of this decent man over the years, as he grew old and isolated in California, never forgetting his time with the writer 60 years before, I confess Hendrickson had me in tears. The bit player had stolen the scene. I had long since lost interest in the novelist and his boat, and cared only for the man who still liked him.
353 2011-11-13 Robert Kagan, in his Oct. 16 review of “Liberty’s Surest Guardian,” by Jeremi Suri, discusses the book’s inclusion of Reconstruction as an early exercise in American nation-building: “Then as later, the United States Army took effective control of a conquered land, eradicated its leadership — the slaveholders — and attempted to empower others to take their place.”

Reconstruction, and the end of slavery and slaveholders, did not equate to the eradication of Southern leadership. If that were the case, the Freedmen would have gained their civil and voting rights, and retained them, from Day 1. Many prewar and wartime Southern leaders remained influential, even powerful. Violence was employed. Alexander Hamilton Stephens, the vice president of the Confederacy, returned to Congress, representing his Georgia district in 1873, and served several terms.
354 2011-11-13 Credit: Brian Lehmann for The New York Times..
355 2011-11-13 It was at the antiterrorism foundation established by the Netanyahu family in honor of Yonatan’s memory that his younger brother Benjamin began his career. In 1986 he edited a book titled “Terrorism: How the West Can Win,” which argued intensely against negotiating with terrorists under any circumstance. In one of the two articles he contributed to the book, Netanyahu wrote: “This is a policy that in effect tells the terrorists that we will not give in to your demands. We insist that you free the hostages. If you do not do so peaceably, we are ready to use force. We are offering a simple exchange: your life for the lives of the hostages. In other words, the only ‘deal’ we are prepared to do with you is this: If you surrender without a fight, you will stay alive.”

Today, when explaining how he, of all leaders, could sign the agreement that marked a new record of acquiescence to a terrorist organization — the release of 1,027 prisoners, many of them with Israeli “blood on their hands” — Netanyahu falls back on the policy that was laid down by Rabin in the deliberations leading up to Entebbe: the intelligence and the operational circumstances left him no alternative but to make a deal.

“We had no choice,” a source close to Netanyahu told me after Gilad Shalit returned home. “There were innumerable other possibilities for exerting pressure which resulted in nothing. Bibi would have been happy to try and rescue Shalit in a military operation, if that would have been possible, but the intelligence community could not locate him. In the end, the question was whether to leave Gilad rotting in a pit in the Hamas prison or to take a bold decision. That’s what Bibi did.”

Gilad Shalit grew up with his parents, Aviva and Noam, and his brother and sister in a small community in western Galilee, not far from the Lebanese border. At school, Gilad loved math and sports, and he possessed an encyclopedic knowledge of the American N.B.A. He joined the army in 2005 as a teenager and, despite a marginal health classification, was accepted into a combat unit that was dispatched in the spring of 2006 to protect the Israeli communities along the border of the Gaza Strip.

On June 25 of that year, Gilad, then 19, was one of the crew of a Merkava tank deployed near the border fence at the southern end of the strip. A squad of eight Palestinian commandos burrowed beneath the fence and split into three groups when they emerged, targeting an observation tower, an empty armored personnel carrier that the Israelis had placed as a decoy and the tank in which Shalit was stationed. They crept silently forward, eventually taking the Israelis by surprise. One of them fired a rocket that hit the tank and wounded its commander, and in the firefight that followed, two Israelis were killed. Shalit and one other soldier at the tank were wounded. The other wounded soldier caught a blurred glimpse of Shalit being dragged away by the Palestinians, who escaped back through the border fence, on which Shalit’s flak jacket was later found hanging.

Within days, Israel launched a series of heavy bombardments on Gaza, code named Operation Summer Rains, destroying the power station and cutting off electricity to tens of thousands of people there. Dozens of Hamas officials were arrested, and Israeli troops shut down the borders in order to search Gazan neighborhoods for Shalit. Hamas responded with volleys of rockets fired at Israeli settlements, to which the Israelis retaliated with even more bombardments.

According to the Israeli human rights organization B’Tselem, in the fighting that continued until a cease-fire was reached on Nov. 26, 2006, 416 Palestinians were killed (5 Israelis were also killed, one by friendly fire). The cease-fire endured on and off until late 2008, when clashes broke out between Hamas and the I.D.F. along the Gaza border. Israel then launched Operation Cast Lead, an extensive invasion of the Gaza Strip that resulted in 1,390 Palestinian deaths, 700 of whom were Hamas, 454 of whom were women and children. This was followed by yet another cease-fire, one that appears to be disintegrating now, in the wake of Shalit’s release.

The Gaza Strip, where Shalit was held, is very small and densely populated and is surrounded almost entirely by Israeli ground and naval forces. Gaza itself is subject to constant aerial surveillance by drones and is rife with informers and collaborators with Israel. Finding Shalit became a top priority for Israel’s intelligence agencies, which soon received information on the precise location at which he was being held: a fenced private residence on the outskirts of Gaza City. Planning for a rescue operation was under way when Israeli intelligence learned that Hamas, in cooperation with Iranian intelligence, had planted false information in order to lure Israelis into raiding the booby-trapped house. The operation was called off, and Shalit’s location was never established. It is very unlikely that we will ever learn where he was held. The degree to which Gaza, unlike the West Bank, is opaque to Israeli intelligence has profound implications for future operations there. The inability of Israeli intelligence to discover Shalit’s place of captivity in a small space that is an hour’s drive from Tel Aviv was a profound failure, one to which the departing heads of Israel’s three security organizations — Mossad, Shin Bet and the military — all admitted when they retired this year.

On July 12, two and a half weeks after their son’s capture, Noam and Aviva Shalit met with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who told them that he had information indicating that Gilad was alive and well. The parents asked if he had precise information on where their son was being held.

“We are doing everything to find him,” Olmert replied, “but I am sorry to say that so far we have no solid, unequivocal information.” The Shalits implored Olmert not to stage a military rescue operation that would endanger the life of their son and the lives of other soldiers, even if the necessary intelligence was obtained.

As Olmert was explaining to them that he was not prepared under any circumstances to enter into negotiations with Hamas, his top military aide handed him a message saying that two more Israeli soldiers had been abducted, this time by the extremist Shiite militia , on the Lebanese border. (Olmert denies discussing the possibility of a military rescue with the Shalits or his negotiating stance with Hamas.)

Olmert ordered a full-scale war to free the two soldiers and to show Hezbollah that, as the common Israeli expression goes, “the boss has gone crazy” — that Israel would respond disproportionately to abductions. The Lebanon war lasted a month and became a humiliation for Israel, failing to cause significant long-term military or political damage to Hezbollah and failing, too, to recover the missing soldiers.

Three weeks after the two men were seized, the Israeli Defense Forces produced a report saying that one of them had been killed and the other received grievous wounds and was in all likelihood dead, but withheld this report from the prime minister for reasons not clear to this day. It is speculated that it was either neglect or the desire from elements in the higher ranks not to provide Olmert a reason to stop the operation. In a strange circumstance, I happened to be the one who informed Olmert’s staff of the report, when I visited his office on the last day of the war. Though Olmert says that he knew that the soldiers were killed from the start, the fact that such a report existed and that the prime minister had learned of it from a journalist caused a public uproar in Israel when it became known a year later.

I have covered Israeli hostage and M.I.A. cases for more than 15 years, including the covert ways in which Israel’s powerful espionage agencies operate to bring soldiers home alive or dead. Over that time, the issue has come to dominate public discourse to a degree that no one could have predicted. Israeli society’s inability to tolerate even a single soldier held in captivity results in popular movements that have tremendous impact on strategic decisions made by the government. The issue has become a generator of history rather than an outcome of it.

Why this is the case is difficult to say, because it requires a plumbing of the Israeli psyche. Certainly, part of it has to do with a Jewish tradition that sanctifies life, and with the necessity for Jews of a proper burial. And part, too, is rooted in the tradition expressed by Maimonides, that there is no greater religious duty than the redemption of prisoners — a powerful idea in a country whose citizens are required to be soldiers. As Noam Shalit emphasized, there is an “unwritten contract” between the government and its soldiers.

On the day Shalit was released, the country held its breath. Service in banks came to a halt because clerks could not stop watching the live video of Shalit’s movements, from Gaza to Egypt and then from Egypt to Israel. All over the country, banners and signs were hung, welcoming him home. Gilad was everyone’s son, everyone’s brother. To Israelis, his release was arguably the most significant event of the last 10 years. The exuberance at his return drowned out whatever protests existed of the deal that was made to bring him home.

It is hard to fathom the price Israel paid for Shalit without placing it in the context of previous prisoner swaps, originally with Palestinian organizations and later with Hezbollah. The first to grasp how sensitive Israeli public opinion was on the issue of hostages and M.I.A.’s — and therefore what a powerful weapon abduction could be — was Ahmed Jibril, the leader of a faction of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. In 1979, Israel reluctantly agreed to its first disproportionate exchange with a guerrilla organization when Jibril insisted on getting 76 P.L.O. members in exchange for one hostage.

Jibril’s greatest success came in the mid-1980s, when in exchange for three Israeli soldiers he demanded the release of 1,150 prisoners. The group included some of the most infamous terrorists held by Israel, including Kozo Okamoto, a Japanese Red Army member who participated in the massacre of 26 people at the arrivals hall in Lod Airport in 1972. In the wake of Jibril’s demand, Israel attempted to put counter-pressure on him by kidnapping his sister’s son, Murad al-Bushnak, whom Israeli agents lured to Beirut with promises of a weekend of sex, drugs and gambling. Instead, Bushnak was captured and taken to an underground interrogation cell, where he quickly gave up the phone number of Jibril’s home in Damascus. A senior intelligence officer dialed the number and made Jibril a simple offer: a quick swap, without anyone knowing, of Bushnak for the three Israelis. Jibril calmly upped his price to include his nephew.

If Jibril served as the inspiration for terrorist organizations, on the Israeli side it was Miriam Grof, the mother of one of Jibril’s Israeli captives, Yosef Grof, who became the model for the families of abductees. Without any experience in dealing with the media, Grof instinctively created strategies that have been used repeatedly by relatives of Israeli P.O.W.’s and M.I.A.’s. She grasped that public pressure on the government is a result of being aggressive and proactive: you make demands, not requests; you focus on what is important to you, not on the good of the country. One former high-ranking member of the I.D.F. recalled her saying that half the country could go up in smoke, just as long as her Yosef came home safe.

Eitan Haber, a respected military correspondent who later became a senior aide to Rabin, told me: “It is difficult to explain, but only someone who met that woman could understand how she filled everyone with a deep, blood-boiling, paralyzing sense of shame. We are speaking about three very tough men [Rabin, Peres and Yitzhak Shamir, the foreign minister] who had no problems saying no, but simply could not stand up to Mrs. Grof. What tipped the scales was not her tears or screaming or her teeth-grinding — all of which I remember clearly — it was the whole package. There was something menacing about her that threatened that the world was coming to an end. Her aggressiveness was not of this world. She broke them all down.”

In large part it was Miriam Grof’s battle for her son that allowed Jibril to get his deal: 1,150 Palestinian prisoners were freed, one of whom was the wheelchair-bound Sheik Ahmad Yassin, who later founded and led Hamas, the same movement whose suicide attacks exacted an enormous and bloody toll on Israelis, and the group that would one day capture Gilad Shalit.

In Lebanon, Hezbollah learned from Jibril’s tactics and perfected them. In January 2004, 435 Lebanese and Palestinian prisoners were released in exchange for the corpses of three Israeli soldiers killed in an ambush on the northern border, as well as one live hostage, Elhanan Tannenbaum. Tannenbaum was a shady businessman and a colonel in the reserves, who of his own free will went to meet Hezbollah agents who lured him to Dubai with the promise of a lucrative drug deal. In Dubai, his contacts sedated him, packed him in a crate and sent him via Iranian diplomatic mail to Beirut, where he was held in solitary confinement for more than three years.

The 2004 deal was led by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who more than any other Israeli leader stood as the symbol of Israel’s aggressive stance toward terrorism. Assaf Shariv, Sharon’s media adviser and later Israel’s consul general in New York, told me: “Sharon was wounded in combat in Israel’s War of Independence in 1948, left behind in the field and almost became a prisoner himself. He recalled that moment as a deep trauma and was haunted by visions of the bodies of Israeli soldiers and those taken captive in Jordan during the ’50s. He vividly remembered and gave horrific descriptions of them. He said of Tannenbaum, ‘I don’t care what he did, but I am not about to leave a Jew in the hands of those Arabs.’ I am sure that if Sharon had been prime minister during the last few years, he would have signed the deal for Shalit long ago. It turns out that even the toughest have their weak spots.”

In the asymmetrical war between Israel, with its powerful military and sophisticated intelligence apparatus, and the much weaker guerrilla groups who operate from places like Gaza, where daily life is one of constant deprivation, it is not hard to see how the latter have used Israel’s sensitivities regarding its citizen-soldiers to their advantage.

In September 1997, Hadi Nasrallah, the son of the Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, was killed in a skirmish with Israeli troops. The Israelis hoped that with his body in their hands, negotiations for the return of the bodies of Israeli soldiers held by Hezbollah would accelerate. Yaakov Perry, the former head of Shin Bet, Israel’s internal security service, was in charge of the case at the time. “We were optimistic,” he told me when we recently spoke. “We thought it would bring a solution closer, but Nasrallah was indifferent. He instructed his men not to put his son’s name at the top of the list and to treat him the same as all the other fallen militiamen. Later I heard that when Hadi’s coffin arrived in Lebanon, his father lifted the lid, glanced at the body of his beloved son and closed it. Not a muscle in his face moved.” The president of German intelligence at the time, August Hanning, who mediated an eventual deal between Israel and Hezbollah, told Perry in bewilderment that although Nasrallah grieved deeply for his son, “the body is another matter. You Israelis have a very unusual attitude on this matter.”

The “sensitivity” of Israel to the body issue has led to the absurd situation in which Israeli soldiers occasionally find themselves risking their own lives — some have been killed in the process — in efforts to extricate the bodies of their comrades from battle, so that those bodies won’t become bargaining chips for future negotiations.

Maj. Gen. Yaakov Amidror served as a senior officer in military intelligence for decades and today serves as national security adviser to the prime minister. “I believe that it is right to endanger the lives of soldiers in operational actions in order to bring about the release of a living hostage or to get information,” Amidror told me in an interview in 2009. “But the important principle is not to conduct any negotiation for the bodies of abducted soldiers or for living hostages. Israel has trapped itself in an impossible position, in which it sacrifices vital security interests in order to return hostages or their bodies, and this exceeds all the limits of reason. If, for example, it was clear to Hamas or any other organization that we do not pay anything and do not negotiate, the motivation to kidnap would be significantly lower.”

Two days after Shalit’s abduction, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert declared in the Knesset that he and his government were “dealing with only one matter” — securing the release of Shalit. Olmert’s capitulation to Hezbollah’s demands for the remains of the two soldiers set a precedent for the high price to be paid for the bodies of Israeli M.I.A.’s. The weight of these deals made bargaining for Shalit’s freedom nearly impossible.

Because the Israeli government refuses to speak directly to Hamas, negotiations in the months following Shalit’s capture were mediated by senior officers of Egyptian intelligence, who at the time had an office in Gaza (they were expelled when Hamas took full control of the Gaza Strip in 2007). In December 2006, an outline of an agreement was reached, under which Israel would free 450 Hamas prisoners from a list that would be agreed upon by both sides. In a second phase, after Shalit was repatriated, Israel would release another 550 prisoners (making a total of 1,000), whom it would select itself. The only point of contention was over who was to be included in the first list. For reasons that are not clear, Israel insisted that Hamas draw up the initial list. When it did so, predictably including the names of its most prominent prisoners — figures the Israeli government had vowed never to release — negotiations immediately came to a halt and remained there for the next two years.

Then, in late December 2008, while Shalit languished in an unknown location in Gaza and after the cease-fire was broken, Israel launched Operation Cast Lead. The stated goal was to liberate communities close to Gaza from missiles that were being fired on them from the strip, and the Olmert government took pains to say that the operation was not intended to win Shalit’s freedom. And yet, immediately following the operation, Israel announced that there would be no new cease-fire with Hamas — that border crossings with Gaza would not be opened and supplies designated for the population would not be allowed through — until the Shalit problem was solved.

In March 2009, negotiations between Israel and Hamas were held in Cairo, under the auspices of the Egyptian intelligence agency. Hamas insisted on the release of many of its top prisoners and, with few exceptions, refused to agree to their deportation from the West Bank, another major sticking point, as Israel feared that the released prisoners would embark on another wave of terrorism. Meir Dagan and Yuval Diskin, the chiefs of the Mossad and the Shin Bet respectively, opposed any deal. They produced data showing that 45 percent of those released in previous prisoner exchanges returned to terrorist activity. One example was a member of Islamic Jihad, Luay Saadi, who was arrested in September 1999 for providing logistical assistance to terrorists in the West Bank. According to Shin Bet, after his release in the January 2004 Tannenbaum deal, Saadi set up a widespread terrorist network that led to the deaths of 30 Israelis and the wounding of 300. He was assassinated by Israel in 2005.

There were a few dozen names on the Hamas list that the intelligence chiefs had vowed would never be released. One of these was Abbas al-Sayad, who dispatched the suicide bomber who blew himself up at a Passover seder at the Park Hotel in Netanya in 2002, killing 30 people, most of them senior citizens, and wounding 140. “People like that should never see daylight as free people,” Diskin, the chief of Shin Bet, said.

Olmert deliberated, and just before he left the prime minister’s office, in April 2009, he decided that the cost was too high to set so many murderers free. The deal collapsed.

On his last day as head of the Mossad, on Jan. 6 of this year, Dagan invited a group of reporters for an unprecedented visit to the organization’s headquarters, perhaps the most secret and well-fortified installation in Israel. We were driven there in a vehicle with blacked-out windows, then carefully searched before entering the building. During this meeting, Dagan sharply criticized the proposed deals for the release of Shalit. “Two hundred thirty-one Israelis were slaughtered by those freed in the Tannenbaum exchange,” he said. He recalled how in 1995 he informed a family that their son had been killed during an operation north of Nablus. “How can we go back to that woman and tell her that the man who killed her son and who was planning to murder many Israelis is being released, after he was sentenced to life imprisonment and after we told her he would never be released? What do we say to her?”

As negotiations for his son’s fate dragged on, Noam Shalit grew increasingly angry. Noam is an introvert, an industrial engineer for the Israeli company Iscar. His twin brother, Yoel, was killed in the Yom Kippur War in 1973, but Noam refrained from joining anti-government demonstrations at the time. By June 2008, though, immediately after the deal with Hezbollah for the two Israeli bodies, Noam emerged as the commander of an army of demonstrators and a growing protest movement. Advertising and public relations executives offered their services to him free. The country was flooded with posters, billboards and one marketing gimmick after another. At one point, Israeli citizens were offered the chance to “write a letter to Gilad” in a special font that was based on Gilad’s own handwriting. Numerous demonstrations were held in the center of Tel Aviv under the slogan “Asking for Gilad’s Forgiveness,” and on Facebook, hundreds of thousands of Israelis replaced their profile picture with a photograph of Shalit. At one point, a “prison cell” was set up in a TV studio, windowless and cramped, similar to the one in which Gilad was presumed held. Local celebrities vied to take hourlong turns sitting inside it, to feel what it would be like in his shoes — all of which was broadcast live.

Like Miriam Grof before him, Noam Shalit galvanized the nation. “Olmert is a political hack,” he told me during one of several conversations I had with him in 2010, in the protest tent that he and Aviva lived in on a sidewalk near the prime minister’s residence in Jerusalem. They sat there on white plastic chairs for more than a year, shaking the hands of tens of thousands of well-wishers who made the pilgrimage to visit them. The prime minister’s security detail did not dare to expel them from the site.

“This is a man who has never really understood the dangers of being captured behind enemy lines,” Noam said of Olmert. “I told Olmert that bringing my son back alive is not a real estate deal.”

He added, with uncharacteristic intensity: “Olmert had the nerve to look me in the eye after I said he wasn’t doing enough to free Gilad and say, ‘I don’t have a contract with any citizen of Israel that says that if he is taken prisoner I have to rescue him.’ That statement expresses a lack of understanding of the issue in all of its implications, not only on the fate of my son, but of far broader matters.” (Olmert says that he understood the Shalits’ request, but he adds: “As a prime minister, there are additional perspectives that I’m in charge of. There are things I will not do as prime minister of the state of Israel.”)

In the summer of 2009, Benjamin Netanyahu, who replaced Olmert in late March, decided that the Egyptian mediation was ineffective and enlisted German intelligence to negotiate a possible deal for Shalit. Over the next year and a half, the senior German agent in the Middle East, Gerhard Conrad, shuttled numerous times between Israel and Hamas. Under heavy secrecy, with the Israeli military barring publication of his name and photo, he moved around Tel Aviv, astonished that the billboards and the media campaigns on behalf of Shalit were having such a significant effect.

As reported by the German journalist Holger Stark of Der Spiegel, by late 2009 Conrad believed that he had managed to broker a compromise deal, but it was rejected by Netanyahu. He had set a limit to what he would agree: most of the freed prisoners would be deported and not allowed to return to their homes in the West Bank, and none of the names on Hamas’s “V.I.P. list” would be released.

More than a year went by, and the negotiations remained deadlocked. In January of this year, it seemed as if the Egyptian government under President Hosni Mubarak might succeed in pressuring Hamas into a compromise, but then came the Arab Spring. Suddenly there was no one to talk to in Cairo, and Hamas halted the negotiations.

Beyond the directors of the intelligence agencies, there were also Israelis who were opposed to making a deal with Hamas, mainly the families of victims of terror or members of the extreme right. In late 2009, when Conrad had almost closed a deal, dozens of families of victims gathered outside the prime minister’s office to protest against the release of killers. One of them was Yossi Mendellevich, with whom I spoke the week after Shalit was brought home.

Mendellevich described how, on the afternoon of March 5, 2003, he was talking on the phone with his 13-year-old son, Yuval, who was riding a No. 37 bus home from school in the port city of Haifa. “I cracked a joke, and Yuvie laughed and said: ‘Dad, you are so funny. I love you.’ Then there was a sound like an intake of air, like whoosh, and we were cut off. I didn’t think anything of it, because there were big problems with cellphones in Haifa at the time. About half an hour later, I got a call from someone asking if Yuval had come home, and I began to worry. Then I understood.”

Line No. 37 wasn’t chosen by chance. In the early afternoon it is one of the busiest bus routes in the city, carrying students from seven different schools. At 2:15 p.m., Mahmoud Kawasme, a Hamas member from Hebron, boarded the bus, moved to the center and detonated the explosives he was carrying. Seventeen people were killed, many of them schoolchildren, and more than 50 were wounded. Yossi Mendellevich identified Yuval’s body in the morgue. Soon afterward, he began waging a struggle against releasing terrorists.

The day after the Kawasme bombing, Israeli security services arrested four Hamas members who recruited him and sent him on his mission. Each of the planners was sentenced to 17 life terms. They were not meant to ever leave prison, but they were among those released in the Shalit deal. I have spoken with Mendellevich several times over the last few years, but he has never sounded so broken as he did in this recent conversation. “I am happy for Gilad and for his family,” he said, “but then I see the picture of Yuval, and sadness envelopes me again. You have seen a thing or two in your life: look at this picture of him. Sometimes you can see his innermost thoughts — the purity, the clarity, a kind of thing that is truly good. That is what he was, and my longing for him is as strong as the sense of loss that tears me apart.”

I asked him if he would like to kill the four who planned the bombing that killed his son, now that they are free.

“Not I,” Mendellevich said. “I am a good boy. A confirmed conformist. I don’t even own a gun. I have not done what some other families have done and put a prize of $100,000 on their heads. But children don’t get on buses armed with guns, and there are law-enforcement agencies that are supposed to keep the criminals and killers off our streets. Now those same agencies go and turn the killers loose to come back to the streets, and this after they have become more extreme and more skilled, in the luxurious conditions they were kept in, in our prisons.”

I asked him what should have been done. How should Shalit have been brought home?

“No effort was made to put any pressure on Hamas,” he said. “Not to mention a military rescue operation. Today there isn’t a military leader with the guts to order a rescue operation or a commander in the army with the guts to recommend one. It’s possible to get to any place. The I.D.F. has proved this many times, but in the Shalit case, they simply never tried, out of fear that soldiers would be killed on the way.”

In the spring of 2011, Netanyahu brought in a man named David Meidan to be his representative in the Shalit case. Born in Egypt, Meidan came to Israel as a child and has served for years in the Mossad, most recently as commander of the organization’s Tevel (“universe” in Hebrew) division, which coordinates operations with the intelligence services of other countries. Meidan was one of Meir Dagan’s favorites, although he had a radically different perspective on the question of prisoner exchanges.

Negotiations were at a dead end when Meidan took over the post, and he immediately began looking for new directions. “A lot of people offered themselves as mediators,” he told me in a conversation in mid-October. “When there is so much ‘intelligence noise,’ the problem is how to isolate the one thing that is likely to produce results. Both in my previous job and here I kept a sensitive ear open to try and identify that thing.”

That thing, improbably, turned out to be an American-Israeli peacenik named Gershon Baskin, who moved to Israel in 1978 to form an N.G.O. devoted to coexistence between Jews and Arabs and who had been a vehement critic of Netanyahu’s for the past 15 years.

Six months before Shalit was abducted, Baskin was at a conference in Cairo, where he struck up a friendship with a professor at the Islamic University of Gaza, a member of Hamas whose name Baskin requested not be published. In the days after the abduction, when Israel launched Operation Summer Rains, the professor phoned Baskin and yelled: “Do something! Your government is bombing us nonstop. There’s no water and no power.”

Through the professor, Baskin was put in contact with Ghazi Hamad, Hamas’s deputy foreign minister, and it was this relationship, which took place largely through computer chats over a number of years, that ultimately led to the Shalit deal. Starting days after the abduction, through a relentless series of text messages, e-mail and phone calls, Baskin tried to convince the Olmert government and all other parties involved that he could help broker a deal. For years he was rebuffed as a nuisance by the Israeli officials dealing with the case.

The first message Baskin received from Hamad said that Hamas would free Shalit in exchange for an end to Israel’s blockade of Gaza, a total cease-fire and the release of 1,500 Palestinian prisoners. In an effort to make sure Olmert personally received the message, Baskin approached Olmert’s daughter, Dana, who agreed to speak to her father. Hamas wanted to know who Baskin’s channel to the prime minister was, so he told them about Dana. Shortly after, a senior Israeli intelligence official shocked Olmert by telling him that his daughter’s name had been mentioned by Hamas operatives. Out of concern for Olmert’s daughter’s safety, a member of Olmert’s staff called Baskin into his office and told him not to involve Dana. For the next five years, until David Meidan decided to take his call, Israeli intelligence rejected Baskin’s offers to help. But Baskin phoned Meidan the day he took the job. “Give me three weeks to get organized,” Meidan told him. “I don’t even have an office or a secretary.” Of their first meeting, Baskin said, “He explained to me that Netanyahu had come to a decision, against his own principles, to bring Gilad home.”

Meidan says that it was almost inconceivable that he would enter into a dialogue with the peacenik who said he could mediate a deal on Shalit, but because there was nothing to lose, he decided to try an experiment to see if Baskin’s channel of communication could be trusted. He asked Baskin to convey a message asking Hamas to prove that Shalit was still alive.

On June 14, Baskin and Hamad communicated via chat messages, Baskin speaking on behalf of Meidan and Hamad on behalf of Ahmed Jabari, the commander of the armed wing of Hamas, who was holding Shalit. Jabari’s is also the first name on Israel’s list of terrorists to be assassinated.

“There is no knowledge of how Gilad is for more than one and a half years,” Baskin wrote, “and Jabari or anyone else should not expect Israel to be serious about releasing 450 prisoners without exact knowledge on whether or not he is alive and well.” Baskin communicated that there were two ways to establish proof of life. The first was a visit by the International Red Cross, in exchange for which Meidan agreed to grant family visits for Hamas prisoners in Israel who had not seen their families for more than four years. Conveying Meidan’s sentiments, he wrote, “a humanitarian gesture in exchange for a humanitarian gesture” and underscored that this was “a technical nightmare for Israel” but that Meidan was willing to ensure it would take place. The second option was a video showing that Shalit was alive.

Israeli intelligence tracked Baskin’s messages and found that the pipeline was reliable and accurate. For the next two months, Baskin transmitted the messages to Hamad without any embellishments, and Hamad passed them on precisely to Hamas leadership.

Meidan reported to Netanyahu: “It turns out that Phoenix” — the code name assigned to Baskin by the intelligence community — “is telling the truth, and our messages are going straight to Jabari.” Netanyahu gave his approval for the secret communication to continue. (A spokesman for Netanyahu declined to comment on any details of the Shalit release, referring me to his public statements.)

“After five years,” Baskin recounted, “this track was now official. I would go to sleep with my mind working on creative ideas — on what I would say to Ghazi, on a proposal for reaching a compromise. My mind was consumed with the negotiations. I was essentially conducting direct negotiations between the government of Israel and Hamas.”

In Israel, only the prime minister, the defense minister, the army chief of staff, Meidan and his team and the heads of Mossad and Shin Bet knew of Baskin’s involvement. It is strange, even unimaginable, that in the end it was a tenacious peacenik without a budget or agents who succeeded where such powerful intelligence agents had failed. “Someone from Egyptian intelligence told me that I hold each conversation five times,” Baskin says, “one for each of the spy agencies listening in on us.”

The process was made more difficult by the total lack of trust between the two sides. Here are extracts from a chat between Baskin and Hamad on July 25:

Baskin: “Is there any possibility that Jabari will authorize you to meet me in a third country other than Egypt?”

Hamad: “Gershon, he authorized me and give me full support but he is very sensitive to anything related to something given to Israel. He still have no trust with Israel. . . .”

Baskin: “Did he authorize you to negotiate?”

Hamad: “Hamas is afraid that can be used against them, direct contact with Israel. . . .”

Baskin: “Netanyahu has the same problem with direct contact with Hamas.”

In the end, thanks to Baskin’s persistence, Meidan persuaded Netanyahu to agree to send Hamas a vague message conveying readiness to compromise. This did not happen in a vacuum: Under intense domestic pressure — among other things, the country’s health care system was on the verge of collapse — Netanyahu was desperate for a positive development. Hamas also had its reasons for moving ahead — the Arab spring was exerting considerable pressure on the organization’s leaders in Damascus, who feared for their future if President Bashar Assad of Syria fell.

On July 14, Baskin received a message from Hamad saying that Hamas was offering a final resolution on the matter. Baskin faxed the document to Meidan, who as a cautious intelligence officer refuses to work with e-mail.

The Israeli negotiating team was surprised by the document. It promised there would be no further demands from the Palestinian side. Hamas promised to carry on from the point reached by Conrad, the German mediator in February 2011, with amendments that were less drastic than had been anticipated. “These are not simple demands,” Meidan told Netanyahu, “but with this we can begin to work.”

Meidan, who in the Mossad had been in charge of Israel’s secret-intelligence ties with Egypt under Mubarak, invited the ousted president’s successors, who were much closer to Hamas than Mubarak had been, to oversee and safeguard the negotiations. He informed them that he was even prepared to meet Jabari in person if necessary. Later, Netanyahu ordered him not to meet Jabari, and the two, who spent dozens of hours during the negotiations on opposite sides of the same wall, with the Egyptians shuttling messages between them, saw each other only in a corridor.

From Israeli intelligence it emerged that there was unrest within Hamas leadership, with some arguing that the matter would have been long settled had Jabari not refused to bend. Meidan called Baskin from Egypt and said: “Get in touch urgently with Hamad and ask him if Hamas is Ahmad Jabari’s private business, because with his nonsense and games he is going to jeopardize the whole deal. Ask Jabari how it is that the whole organization, including the heads of the political wing, are scared of calling him to order.”

“The most difficult time,” Baskin recalls, “was two weeks before the agreement.” The Egyptians had placed a comprehensive draft agreement on the table, containing all the details. The Hamas representatives evaded giving an answer. “Suddenly, no one was getting back to me and all of my contacts were avoiding my calls,” Baskin said. “The terrible thought crossed my mind that perhaps Hamas did not really want to sign the agreement because they could not really carry it out — that Gilad was no longer alive.”

What was actually taking place was an internal dispute within Hamas. The political leadership was forcing the Egyptian proposal on Jabari, who wanted to continue stringing the Israelis along.

Ultimately, it was Israel that made the supreme compromise in agreeing to release terrorists whom it had vowed never to set free. While half of Hamas’s V.I.P. list remained in prison, those who were released were collectively responsible for the deaths of 600 Israelis and for wounding thousands. Some of them had been sentenced to hundreds of years in prison. German intelligence was amazed by these concessions, which Netanyahu himself had said he would never agree to.

Now Shalit is home, and Israel can only wait to see if the gamble Netanyahu took with the country’s security was justified or whether, as the deal’s opponents claim, the release of so many killers will encourage even more kidnappings and fuel the flames that are perpetually smoldering in the Middle East.

To a certain extent, the entire history of Israel’s prisoner exchanges prepared the country for this moment. Alongside the chronicles of regional security and Jewish tradition, it may have been a profound and bewildering sense of impotence — that Israel, with its mighty military, its legendary Mossad and its resourceful Shin Bet, is forced to stoop before its enemies — that led the masses into the streets to express their rage at the government and to demand that they bring Shalit home. It was clear that Israel would have to pay the price either way, the argument went, so why wait? Next time, said analysts firmly, a new set of clear rules would need to be devised; but this time, with Shalit languishing in jail for years without any alternative on the horizon, it must be signed before it was too late.

In 2007, a special commission was set up to determine a set of clear criteria to be followed in future prisoner exchanges. In order to protect negotiations on the Shalit deal, its details were not published, but I was told by a source in the ministry of defense that they include a warning against paying an exorbitant price to terrorist organizations in order to bring prisoners home, that the guiding principle should be bodies for bodies and small numbers of imprisoned terrorists for living hostages.

Perhaps this commission was asking Israelis to evoke an attitude that was more prevalent before the first Lebanon war of 1982 and the economic boom of the mid-’80s. It was the attitude in which one Israeli was willing to sacrifice himself for the collective, and in which the collective accepted this sacrifice. Looking back 35 years, it is undeniable that a shift has occurred in Israeli society. It is doubtful, when the time comes, that politicians will be able to resist public pressure and give up whatever is necessary, whatever percentage of the nearly 5,000 Palestinian prisoners still held in Israel, to bring the missing home.

There is perhaps some larger hope, though. After the deal went through, David Meidan reported to Netanyahu on the exchange and mentioned that he noticed a change in Jabari: he was wearing civilian clothes as opposed to the customary military uniform, appeared to be taking better care of his appearance, all of which softened his usual stern image. Meidan said to Netanyahu, “Something interesting is happening to Jabari.”

He also said that he believed the Egyptian-mediated channel established between Israel and Hamas for the negotiation could perhaps be used for other deals, and that from a point of total mistrust in April, a fragile mutual trust had been built between the two parties after the Shalit deal.

Others in Israeli intelligence believe, or perhaps hope, that the fact that the deal went through may indicate that Hamas’s stance is becoming more moderate, that the Arab Spring and the fall of Mubarak, with whom Israel shared a cold peace, might not pose as great a peril as Israel thought.

This fragile optimism, of course, will die immediately if one of the released prisoners takes part in the killing of Israelis, a fate that some intelligence officers say is inevitable. For now, though, the 80 percent of Israelis who supported the Shalit deal continue to rejoice. He is, as it is said there, everyone’s son. And will be until more fighting claims more lives and another soldier will take Gilad Shalit’s place in Israel’s collective conscience.
356 2011-11-13 The Mars Curiosity Rover, a Mini Cooper-size nuclear-powered vehicle that will launch on Nov. 25, doesn't aim to answer David Bowie's burning question, exactly. The chief scientist John Grotzinger says the $2.5 billion mission seeks ''insight into...
357 2011-11-14 Disunion follows the Civil War as it unfolded.
358 2011-11-14 Disunion follows the Civil War as it unfolded.
359 2011-11-14 An article in The New York Times on Monday reported that many states are quick to restore gun rights to felons, even violent ones. In other states, people released from prison often struggle to regain the right to vote.

What rights, if any, should felons lose upon conviction? When, if ever, should some be restored?
360 2011-11-14 Over the years, I have seen time and time again that Americans are baffled by the attitude of Israeli society, its intelligence community and its military toward hostages, POWs and MIAs in general and by the Gilad Shalit affair in particular. "Why...
361 2011-11-14 Over the years, I have seen time and time again that Americans are baffled by the attitude of Israeli society, its intelligence community and its military toward hostages, POWs and MIAs in general and by the Gilad Shalit affair in particular. "Why...
362 2011-11-14 Credit Suisse says in an internal memo that the change brings the firm more in line with that of its competitors when it comes to deferred compensation....
363 2011-11-14 Credit Suisse says in an internal memo that the change brings the firm more in line with that of its competitors when it comes to deferred compensation....
364 2011-11-14 More than a dozen Goldman Sachs partners have announced plans to leave recently, a higher number than in years past....
365 2011-11-14 More than a dozen Goldman partners have announced plans to leave recently, a much higher number than in years past, including some well-known names on Wall Street like Kevin Kennedy and Jeff Resnick....
366 2011-11-14 Michael Luo, a New York Times reporter who has examined how easy it is in many states for people with felony convictions to get their gun rights reinstated will be answering reader questions....
367 2011-11-14 Michael Luo, a New York Times reporter who has examined how easy it is in many states for people with felony convictions to get their gun rights reinstated will be answering reader questions....
368 2011-11-14 CRM Metrix, Paris and New York, was acquired by MetrixLab, Rotterdam, and will be integrated with the e-business performance research group at MetrixLab. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Crunch Brand Communications, Charlestown, Mass., opened an office in Wilton, Conn. Jill Cilo joins to lead Crunch Connecticut; she had most recently been president at DP Three Sixty, New York.

Frank151 Media Group, New York, was renamed the Malbon Group, after Stephen Malbon, chief executive. The company will be composed of three divisions: Bon, Frank151 and the League.

Robert Franks joined Crown Partners, Dayton, Ohio, as director for e-business consulting; his hiring comes after the recent start-up of the e-business division. Mr. Franks had most recently been chief executive at BerrieHill Research and senior director for rental marketing and pricing at Cintas.

Jana, Boston, a mobile technology company, opened an office in Singapore to serve the Asia-Pacific region. Jana also has an office in San Francisco.

Laurent Janneau joined TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, as worldwide managing director for the global Infiniti account. He succeeds Walter Smith, who left to join Deutsch L.A. as executive vice president and group account director on the HTC account. Mr. Janneau, who will be based in the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA, had been executive director of the Paris office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. The appointment marks a return to TBWA for Mr. Janneau, who worked at worked at BDDP/TBWA, Paris, from 1995 to 2000. Deutsch L.A. is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Christian Johansen joined the Amsterdam office of Euro RSCG 4D as managing director. He succeeds Sander Volten, who left to join Kingsday as partner and managing director. Mr. Johansen had been executive group director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP. Euro RSCG 4D is part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Worldwide, which is owned by Havas.

Rick Jones joined [x+1], New York, in a new post, director for product marketing. He had been a product marketing team lead in the WebEx collaboration software group at Cisco Systems, Santa Clara, Calif.

Alan Kercinik joined Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide as executive vice president in the strategy and planning group, based in Chicago. He succeeds Sandra Saias, who moved to London to lead the agency’s Europe, Middle East and Africa operations. Mr. Kercinik had been executive vice president and director for engagement at Weber Shandwick, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide division of WPP.

Mars Advertising, Southfield, Mich., and Philter Retail, Toronto, which have collaborated for many years, have formed Mars-Philter, Toronto. The agency will be separate from the Mars office in Toronto, known as Mars Advertising Canada.

Millennial Media, Baltimore, is expanding into the Asia-Pacific market by opening an office in Singapore. The office will be led by Robert Woolfrey, who joins as Southeast Asia managing director; he had most recently been director of brand advertising sales for Southeast Asia at InMobi.

OFC: Office Entertainment Network was opened by Jordan Berman, the chief executive at Shorn Entertainment who was previously senior vice president for integrated marketing at MTV, part of Viacom. The video clips on the OFC Web site, at ofc.tv, are also being syndicated by the Break Media Network.

Michel Roux, who helped make Absolut vodka such a successful brand when he led a company known as Carillon Importers, has agreed to serve for the next three years as global senior adviser for the Absolut Company division of Pernod Ricard. Financial terms were not disclosed. Mr. Roux will continue as chairman and chief executive of his own company, Crillon Importers.

Cece Ryan, national advertising sales director at People magazine, New York, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, was promoted to associate publisher for sales. She succeeds Karen Kovacs, who became publisher of People last December.,

Liz Schiff joined Interclick, New York, as senior vice president for agency and industry relations. She had been senior vice president for sales at the Adconion Media Group, New York.

Ron Shamah, who led business development at the SapientNitro New York office, part of the SapientNitro unit of Sapient, was promoted to vice president and managing director of the office. He succeeds Hank Summy, who left to join McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as president for North America.

Francesca Sorrentino joined Forge Worldwide, Boston, as an account manager. She had been a marketing associate at Digitas, Boston, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Kim Smith joined ePrize, Pleasant Ridge, Mich., in a new post, senior vice president for business development. She had most recently been leading sales and business development at Viewpoint Networks, Chicago.

Sun Chemical Corporation, Parsippany, N.J., expanded its relationship with Eric Mower & Associates, Syracuse, by naming Mower as its agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. Mower has handled public relations for Sun, which produces printing ink and pigments. The previous agency for Sun was G2, New York, part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP.

Paul Turner joined Adaptly, New York, in a new post, general manager for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, to lead its expansion to London. He had been head of Europe, the Middle East and Africa for Invite Media, which was acquired by Google last year.
369 2011-11-14 Joshua Zucker returns to lead us through a delicious mystery....
370 2011-11-14 Joshua Zucker returns to lead us through a delicious mystery....
371 2011-11-14 Women who have children at home and single women have higher levels of depression in the months after treatment than other breast cancer patients, new research shows....
372 2011-11-14 Women who have children at home and single women have higher levels of depression in the months after treatment than other breast cancer patients, new research shows....
373 2011-11-14 The original investigation was undertaken in May after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration received complaints that cars placed in Park sometimes remained in gear....
374 2011-11-14 The original investigation was undertaken in May after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration received complaints that cars placed in Park sometimes remained in gear....
375 2011-11-14 A summary of what’s on today’s editorial page....
376 2011-11-14 Plus: How important are inspiration and creativity to your business?...
377 2011-11-14 Plus: How important are inspiration and creativity to your business?...
378 2011-11-14 For Mitch McConnell, a Democrat in the White House is not that bad a result as long as Republicans win the Senate and hold the House....
379 2011-11-14 For Mitch McConnell, a Democrat in the White House is not that bad a result as long as Republicans win the Senate and hold the House....
380 2011-11-14 Does your community have locally owned businesses that compete with big box retailers?...
381 2011-11-14 Does your community have locally owned businesses that compete with big box retailers?...
382 2011-11-14 An Indian immigrant has been accused of laundering money for Mexico’s Sinaloa drug cartel....
383 2011-11-14 An Indian immigrant accused of laundering money for Mexico's Sinaloa drug cartel....
384 2011-11-14 Mathematically, it is a possibility. Technically, they have a chance. “The N.F.L.’s a funny thing,” said guard Matt Slauson, but no one was laughing. For a while afterward, Calvin Pace sat in front of his stall, his head bowed. In his opening statement at his postgame news conference, Ryan apologized to the fans, most of whom started fleeing the stadium early in the fourth quarter.

Five seconds into that quarter, the Jets drew to 23-16 on a 7-yard catch by Plaxico Burress. And then Brady proceeded to dissect them on a ruthless 13-play, 84-yard drive, running an up-tempo offense that messed with the Jets’ substitutions, leaving them susceptible to long gains. When Deion Branch jogged into the end zone after his 8-yard score, Brady did not celebrate. He just unstrapped his helmet and headed toward the sideline, as if he expected it all. Perhaps he did. Brady overcame a sluggish start to blister the Jets after halftime, firing two touchdown passes — another was negated by penalty — and chuckling in the face of those who thought his reign over, his team vulnerable.

The Patriots had lost two straight games, but it was the Jets who played as if they were reeling. Poor clock management by Mark Sanchez on the Jets’ scoring drive right before halftime resulted in precious extra time for Tom Brady, who fired a touchdown pass to Rob Gronkowski with nine seconds remaining. “That touchdown was absurd,” Pace said.

The Jets committed three turnovers, all in the second half. One came on a muffed punt by the usually reliable Joe McKnight, which led to a field goal. One came on Sanchez’s first interception, which led to another touchdown for Gronkowski. The third came on Sanchez’s second interception, which was returned 12 yards for a touchdown by Rob Ninkovich.

“I just thought we didn’t respond,” Pace said. “The whole team, we just didn’t respond.”

The last time the Jets entered a game against New England with the same record — on Dec. 6, 2010 — it was also at night, on national television, with an audience curious to gauge their worth. Back then, the Jets lost by 42 points in what became known as the Monday Night Massacre. Losing by half as many Sunday stung just as much.

“We were wanting this game in the worst way, but you’re not going to beat New England, you’re not going to beat many teams, when you make the mistakes that we made,” Ryan said.

All week, the Jets approached Game No. 9 as if it were No. 16. It started last Sunday with chants to beat the Patriots as the Jets scampered off the field after pummeling Buffalo. It continued with Ryan’s daily statements of affirmation, of needing to win Sunday, and with LaDainian Tomlinson’s fiery pregame speech in the huddle. He urged his teammates to dominate. He told them, according to the NBC broadcast, “the division is ours, it’s ours tonight.” Four hours later, it was not.

“It looks doubtful right now,” Ryan said, when asked whether, given the teams’ similar schedules, a division title was still attainable. The Jets play Thursday night in Denver against the surging Broncos. “What am I going to say? Maybe I should guarantee the fact that we’re out of it. The last time I did it, we made the playoffs. So yeah, we have no chance.”

The Jets were confident they could reverse the perception, having won three in a row, performing better with every victory. “It should have been a perfect opportunity for us,” said Tomlinson, who is set to have testing Monday after injuring his left leg. “Any team that loses two in a row, you start to question yourself, your confidence is a little low.”

If so, the Patriots had a funny way of showing it. In all three of their losses, Brady had been eclipsed by the opposing quarterback. The Jets spoke of pressuring Brady, but they did not sack him once. Sanchez completed 20 of 39 passes for 306 yards with a touchdown and two interceptions, floundering against what is statistically the worst pass defense in football.

“You see the difference a great quarterback makes in this league,” Ryan said.

Added Sanchez, who was sacked five times: “I didn’t play well enough for this offense to be successful and for us to win.”

The Jets’ problems began on their opening drive. For the second consecutive week, they stampeded down the field. And for the second consecutive week, that drive ended in disappointment, with Nick Folk hooking a 24-yard field-goal attempt to the left.

The Patriots’ first possession culminated in a 50-yard field goal by Stephen Gostkowski, whose kick wobbled and swayed as it neared the goal post. It was the Patriots’ good fortune that the ball floated over the crossbar, safe by about a foot. It was their better fortune that Darrelle Revis’s plea for a timeout on the ensuing drive came too late — or went unnoticed by the officials. On third-and-8 from its 29, New England bunched its receivers on the near side, and the Jets were late to defend. Chad Ochocinco, held without a reception in his last three games, slipped behind Revis for a 53-yard gain, and four plays later Gostkowski booted a 36-yard field goal that extended New England’s lead to 6-0.

The teams traded punts, with a boomer by T. J. Conley pinning New England at its 8. Two plays after the Jets failed to recover a fumbled snap by Brady, Jamaal Westerman burst through the line and bowled over Danny Woodhead, maximizing his 60-pound advantage. Brady avoided a sack by flinging the ball with his left hand, but was called for intentional grounding in the end zone, an automatic safety.

The crowd, so amped before the game, spent much of the first half booing the Jets’ inefficiency. Now it stood and roared, cheering as Sanchez engineered a 65-yard drive that ended with him on his stomach, his right hand outstretched, the ball over the goal line, the product of a called 2-yard quarterback draw.

It took 28 minutes 36 seconds, but the Jets’ offense finally scored against the worst defense in the N.F.L. It also took 71 seconds for the Jets to return that lead. Instead of letting the clock run down, Sanchez called a timeout right before his touchdown. With New England ahead, 13-9, Ryan told Michelle Tafoya at halftime on the NBC broadcast that the timeout was “the stupidest thing in football history.”

“A rookie mistake,” Sanchez called it. Ryan deflected the responsibility, accepting the blame. But it was more than one miscue that cost the Jets. In training camp, Ryan challenged the rest of the N.F.L. to beat up on New England. Three teams have. The Jets, twice losers, have not. And now, with more road playoff games in their future — if they even emerge from the A.F.C. logjam — they have no one to blame but themselves.

“Obviously, for some reason, we feel very comfortable putting ourselves in this position,” said Leonhard, adding, “We all knew how big this game was. We can’t make the mistakes we did and beat that team. And yet we continue to try.”
385 2011-11-14 “Last night this book — ‘Dogs à Porter’ — celebrated its launch,” said the clerk. There were leftover copies, and he pulled one out from under the counter and handed it to the baby. It was a small hardback, just the right size for him to hold.

This was how the dust jacket described it:

“A Prada for your Pekingese? A Louis Vuitton for your Lhasa Apso? Maybe a Burberry for your Bichon? High fashion, name-brand handbags have never been hotter, and they are ever more frequently seen about the fashion capitals of the world toting cute, small dogs that are the latest stylish accessory for fashionistas.”

Amedeo opened the book, looked at one or two images of rats with tails peeking out of pink handbags or wearing dresses, promptly said “Meh” (his word for no) and put the book back on the counter. So there would be no confusion, he pushed the book as far away from himself as he could. I offered it to him again, opening it to a picture of a particularly fetching Chihuahua. Same reaction.

The clerk and all the patrons around the cash register laughed and laughed.

Amedeo read “The Dogs of Central Park” all the way home.

I was sitting down to see a film at the Lincoln Plaza Cinema when I received a text from my older brother, who lives in Colorado Springs. “Were you just walking on 64th & Broadway?” he wrote.

Astonished, I answered, “Yes — how did you know?”

It seems his wife’s nephew, visiting from Salt Lake City, had sighted me from a New York City tour bus. He and I have never met; he knows me only from family photos. Thus he texted them in Colorado and they got word to me in New York City.

Although I have lived as a New Yorker for almost 30 years, clearly Big Brother is still watching.

After dinner in a Chinatown restaurant, my friends and I were strolling on Pell Street enjoying the warm evening. All of a sudden we heard screaming and laughter up ahead. In the street we saw what I thought was a wind-up toy crab gone wild.

It turned out to be a very real, feisty crab, flailing like mad while a woman ran after it and hit it with her umbrella to make it stop. She was carrying an orange plastic bag full of crabs, and this one had escaped!

The human finally prevailed, subduing the crustacean and putting it back in her bag, laughing the whole time, along with everyone else.

While walking down Second Avenue recently, I overheard the young woman behind me explaining Yom Kippur to her male companion:

“It’s like going to confession except instead of doing it every month, you only have to do it once a year, and you fast at the same time and then you’re good for another year.”
386 2011-11-14 Two days after the sight of flaming cars and anti-Semitic graffiti horrified a heavily Jewish neighborhood in Brooklyn, residents, elected officials and others took part in a march on Sunday against hatred and intolerance.

The police were still investigating the burning of three parked cars on Ocean Parkway and the spray-painting of swastikas and anti-Semitic slurs on benches and the initials “K.K.K.” on the side of a van. The police are treating the episode as a hate crime. No arrests had been made by late Sunday afternoon.

The images of vandalism contrasted with the leafy streets of Midwood, an area with many single-family homes with front yards and driveways.

“I’m shocked it happened here, on my block,” said Ayton Eller, who carried an Israeli flag to the afternoon rally. “Can you believe it?”

The march, which took place on Ocean Parkway from Avenue I to Avenue L, drew scores of residents, as well as several elected officials, including Assemblyman Dov Hikind; State Senator Eric Adams; the public advocate, Bill de Blasio; and Letitia James, Brad Lander and Jumaane D. Williams, all members of the City Council from Brooklyn.
387 2011-11-14 The former world champion Daisuke Takahashi of Japan crashed while attempting a quadruple flip but recovered to win the NHK Trophy in Sapporo, Japan, and earn a place in the Grand Prix final. Had he landed it, he would have been the first to complete the four-revolution flip in competition. The American Ross Miner jumped to third from sixth overnight for his first Grand Prix medal.
388 2011-11-14 Delivery of the aircraft is scheduled to begin in 2015.

James F. Albaugh, chief of Boeing’s commercial airplane division, said the order would sustain thousands of American jobs. Boeing delivered 127 commercial airplanes in the third quarter, including 100 of its best-selling 737 narrow-body planes and 21 wide-body 777s. Boeing, which is paid for its airplanes at delivery, set its commercial airplane delivery guidance for 2011 at about 480, down from previous guidance of 485 to 495.

A muted air show two years ago came days before Dubai lurched into its own property and financial crisis in 2009, but the city-state has been recovering after a bailout from neighboring Abu Dhabi.

Dubai’s ruler, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, spent hours at the air show, looking at commercial and military planes and touring the floor before taking a seat at the Emirates news conference, underscoring the keen interest that the emirate has in the success of its airline and ambitions for Dubai to become a major hub.

Demand for passenger aircraft has been remarkably robust, led by rising numbers of the middle classes in Asia and the Middle East and a shift of economic power from the West, but some analysts fear contagion from Europe’s debt crisis.

“Nothing goes up forever, but we really believe the demand for airplanes is driven by world G.D.P.,” Mr. Albaugh of Boeing said on the eve of the show.

Increasing competition to sell military hardware to gulf states amid rising tensions over Iran’s nuclear activities also dominated the start of the show and could lead to an increase in military orders.

In a blow to France, an $11 billion contest to sell fighters to the United Arab Emirates heated up on the eve of the event when the Eurofighter consortium disclosed that it had been asked to present its Typhoon warplane to the country’s top military.

A spokesman for the consortium of companies from Britain, Germany, Italy and Spain confirmed a report on the briefing in Flightglobal.com, an industry publication, but declined to comment further.

The briefing by British officials took place in October in response to a request from the Emirates, which have held long-running talks with France over a purchase of up to 60 Rafale fighters built by Dassault Aviation.

The United Arab Emirates have been in talks with France since 2008 but discussions have been subjected to occasional disruption.

The Emirates have also inquired about the Boeing F/A-18 Super Hornet.

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has made it a priority to find a foreign buyer for the multi-role Rafale, billed as one of the most effective but also one of the most expensive fighter jets in the world.
389 2011-11-14 Both were among the first investors in Google, which made them billionaires, and, before that, they created and sold a company to the networking giant Cisco Systems for $220 million. Wealth and reputations as technology seers give their arguments about the risks of faster networks rare credibility.

More transactions also mean more system attacks. Even though he says there is no turning back on the online society, Mr. Cheriton worries most about security hazards. “I’ve made the claim that the Chinese military can take it down in 30 seconds, no one can prove me wrong,” he said. By building a new way to run networks in the cloud era, he says, “we have a path to having software that is more sophisticated, can be self-defending, and is able to detect more problems, quicker.”

The common connection among computer servers, one gigabit per second, is giving way to 10-gigabit connections, because of improvements in semiconductor design and software. Speeds of 40 gigabits, even 100 gigabits, are now used for specialty purposes like consolidating huge data streams among hundreds of thousands of computers across the globe, and that technology is headed into the mainstream. An engineering standard for a terabit per second, 1,000 gigabits, is expected in about seven years.

Arista, which is based here, was built with the 10-gigabit world in mind. It now has 250 employees, 167 of them engineers, building a fast data-routing switch that could isolate problems and fix them without ever shutting down the network. It is intended to run on inexpensive mass-produced chips. In terms of software and hardware, it was a big break from the way things had been done in networking for the last quarter-century.

“Companies like Cisco had to build their own specialty chips to work at high speed for the time,” Mr. Bechtolsheim said. Because of improvements in the quality and capability of the kind of chips used in computers, phones and cable television boxes, “we could build a network that is a lot more software-enabled, something that is a lot easier to defend and modify,” he said.

For Mr. Cheriton, who cuts his own hair despite his great wealth, Arista was an opportunity to work on a new style of software he said he had been thinking about since 1989.

No matter how complex, software is essentially a linear system of commands: Do this, and then do that. Sometimes it is divided into “objects” or modules, but these tend to operate sequentially.

From 2004 to 2008, when Arista shipped its first product, Mr. Cheriton developed a five million-line system that breaks operations into a series of tasks, which when completed, other parts of the program can check on and pick up if everything seems fine. If it does not, the problem is rapidly isolated and addressed. Mr. Bechtolsheim worked with him to make the system operate with chips that were already on the market.

The first products were sold to financial traders looking to shave 100 nanoseconds off their high-frequency trades. Arista has more than 1,000 customers now, including telecommunications companies and university research laboratories.

“They have created something that is architecturally unique in networking, with a lot of value for the industry,” says Nicholas Lippis, who tests and evaluates switching equipment. “They built something fast that has a unique value for the industry.”

Kenneth Duda, another founder, said, “What drives us here is finding a new way to do software.” Mr. Duda also worked with Mr. Cheriton and Mr. Bechtolsheim at Granite Systems, the company they sold to Cisco. “The great enemy is complexity, measured in lines of code, or interactions,” he said. In the world of cloud computing, “there is no person alive who can understand 10 percent of the technology involved in my writing and printing out an online shopping list.”

Not surprisingly, Cisco, which dominates the $5 billion network switching business, disagrees.

“You don’t have to reinvent the Internet,” says Ram Velaga, vice president for product management in Cisco’s core technology group. “These protocols were designed to work even if Washington is taken out. That is in the architecture.”

Still, Cisco’s newest data center switches have rewritten software in a way more like Arista’s. A few products are using so-called merchant silicon, instead of its typical custom chips. “Andy made a bet that Cisco would never use merchant silicon,” Mr. Velaga says.

Mr. Cheriton and Mr. Bechtolsheim have known each other since 1981, when Mr. Cheriton arrived from his native Canada to teach at Stanford. Mr. Bechtolsheim, a native of Germany, was studying electrical engineering and building what became Sun’s first product, a computer workstation.

The two became friends and intellectual compatriots, and in 1994 began Granite Networks, which made one of the first gigabit switches. Cisco bought the company two years later.

With no outside investors in Arista, they could take as long as they wanted on the product, Mr. Bechtolsheim said.

“Venture capitalists have no patience for a product to develop.” he said. “Pretty soon they want to bring in their best buddy as the C.E.O. Besides, this looked like a good investment.”

Mr. Cheriton said, “Not being venture funded was definitely a competitive advantage.” Besides, he said, “Andy never told me it would be $100 million.”
390 2011-11-14 The music gods have meddled again with EMI’s destiny. In the minds of many, the union of the British music company — home to the Beatles and the Beastie Boys — with its American rival Warner Music was supposed to be just a matter of time. But the star-crossed match has been knocked off course again by an EMI breakup involving Sony and Vivendi’s Universal Music.

EMI’s path to this point has been tortuous. An overleveraged buyout in 2007 led to its seizure by lender Citigroup earlier this year. The bank, a reluctant owner, appeared to have a quick way out when the billionaire Len Blavatnik acquired Warner soon after. The logic for a Warner-EMI deal was just as compelling now as it was when they first tried to merge in 2000. EMI and Warner remain the runts among the four major companies, complement each other geographically and present cost-cutting opportunities.

Yet Universal, the world’s largest music company, and No. 2 Sony have bold plans of their own. Universal, with twice as much revenue as Warner but about the same operating margin, needs cost reductions to capitalize on its scale. Though it’s paying a rich seven times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization through March for EMI’s recorded-music business, Universal expects about $160 million of annual savings. Taxed and capitalized, those should cover more than half the $1.9 billion price.

For Sony, taking control of EMI’s music publishing business with a group of investors for $2.2 billion would vault it to the top spot in the sector. It would also leave the rival BMG partnership established by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the private equity firm, and Bertelsmann, the German media group, lacking the anchor asset it had been seeking to give it serious clout.

Still, EMI’s fate is not quite sealed. Citi made sure Universal assumed all the regulatory risk on the deal. Though Universal plans to sell 500 million euros of assets, trust-busters will have plenty of questions. In some countries, the enlarged Universal would control more than 40 percent of the market; in the United States, it would have about a 38 percent share. The competition review may take a year or more. It may not yet be the day the music died for Warner and EMI.

Sinopec, the major Chinese oil company, is starting to show some M.& A. discipline. It has just invested $5.2 billion in the Brazilian oil fields of Galp Energia, the Portuguese oil company. Compared with the last big deal it did in the same back yard, the price looks positively reasonable. With luck, Sinopec might make a habit of powering its big acquisitions with logic as well as cash.
391 2011-11-14 Another peculiarity of the scene: a fleet of cars with “Gotham” license plates taking up parking spaces.

As orange cones and barricades lined entryways to the bridge on Sunday, many drivers trying to get to the top level approached traffic officers, ignoring green lights, to stop and ask for alternate directions. Some made snap decisions as they veered away from the barricades, swerving into the lane for the lower level or turning onto Second Avenue to find another way.

Former Mayor Edward I. Koch, for whom the bridge was named last spring, was not aware of the closing Sunday — “the City Council did not require that I be informed,” he joked — but said he had championed the city’s promotion of film and entertainment since his time in office, when he pushed for the revitalization of the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens.

Other mayors have followed suit. In August, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cited growth in the city’s entertainment industry as “one of the reasons we create jobs at a faster clip than the rest of the nation.” The entertainment industry, according to the mayor’s office, contributes $5 billion to the city’s economy each year and supports 100,000 jobs; behind-the-scenes tasks often fall to local businesses.

“Some people will be slightly inconvenienced,” the mayor said then. “And the city’s job is to find that balance.”

Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, said the city stood to reap indirect benefits as well. “It reaches a global market,” Professor Moss said. “Every person who sees ‘Batman’ is going to say, ‘Boy I’d like to see New York.’ ”

Some residents near the bridge said the short-term nuisance was worth the trouble, noting that the New York City Marathon had been just as disruptive a weekend earlier. Ms. Matthews said she had only one complaint: the film’s star, Christian Bale, had not shown his face on the city’s sidewalks, to her knowledge. “He should be walking around shaking hands,” Ms. Matthews said. “And kissing older women.”

Mr. Koch, meanwhile, may welcome the film’s stop in the city, but he did not care much for its predecessor, “The Dark Knight.” In recent years, the former mayor, who has reviewed films for The Huffington Post, has supplied video critiques on the Web site www.mayorkoch.com.

Of “The Dark Knight,” he wrote, “the story is the same old, same old of Batman saving Gotham City” from a cast of villains. “Not to worry, no hero or anti-hero is killed off,” he continued. “They will be needed for the inevitable sequel.”
392 2011-11-14 Under federal law, people with felony convictions forfeit their right to bear arms. Yet every year, thousands of felons across the country have those rights reinstated, often with little or no review. In several states, they include people convicted of violent crimes, including first-degree murder and manslaughter, an examination by has found.

While previously a small number of felons were able to reclaim their gun rights, the process became commonplace in many states in the late 1980s, after Congress started allowing state laws to dictate these reinstatements — part of an overhaul of federal gun laws orchestrated by the . The restoration movement has gathered force in recent years, as gun rights advocates have sought to capitalize on the 2008 ruling that the Second Amendment protects an individual’s right to bear arms.

This gradual pulling back of what many Americans have unquestioningly assumed was a blanket prohibition has drawn relatively little public notice. Indeed, state law enforcement agencies have scant information, if any, on which felons are getting their gun rights back, let alone how many have gone on to commit new crimes.

While many states continue to make it very difficult for felons to get their gun rights back — and federal felons are out of luck without a presidential pardon — many other jurisdictions are far more lenient, The Times found. In some, restoration is automatic for nonviolent felons as soon as they complete their sentences. In others, the decision is left up to judges, but the standards are generally vague, the process often perfunctory. In some states, even violent felons face a relatively low bar, with no waiting period before they can apply.

The Times examined hundreds of restoration cases in several states, among them , where William James Holisky II, who had a history of stalking and terrorizing women, got his gun rights back last year, just six months after completing a three-year prison sentence for firing a shotgun into the house of a woman who had broken up with him after a handful of dates. She and her son were inside at the time of the shooting.

“My whole family’s convinced that at some point he’ll blow a gasket and that he’ll come and shoot someone,” said Vicky Holisky-Crets, Mr. Holisky’s sister.

Also last year, a judge in Cleveland restored gun rights to Charles C. Hairston, who had been convicted of first-degree murder in in 1971 for shooting a grocery store owner in the head with a shotgun. He also had another felony conviction, in 1995, for corruption of a minor.

Margaret C. Love, a pardon lawyer based in Washington, D.C., who has researched gun rights restoration laws, estimated that, depending on the type of crime, in more than half the states felons have a reasonable chance of getting back their gun rights.

That universe could well expand, as pro-gun groups shed a historical reluctance to advocate publicly for gun rights for felons. Lawyers litigating Second Amendment issues are also starting to challenge the more restrictive restoration laws. Pro-gun groups have pressed the issue in the last few years in states as diverse as , , and .

Ohio’s Legislature confronted the matter when it passed a law this year fixing a technicality that threatened to invalidate the state’s restorations.

Ken Hanson, legislative chairman of the Buckeye Firearms Coalition, argued that felons should be able to reclaim their gun rights just as they can other civil rights.

“If it’s a constitutional right, you treat it with equal dignity with other rights,” he said.

But Toby Hoover, executive director of the Ohio Coalition Against Gun Violence, contended that the public was safer without guns in the hands of people who have committed serious crimes.

“It seems that Ohio legislators have plenty of problems to solve that should be a much higher priority than making sure criminals have guns,” Ms. Hoover said in written testimony.

That question — whether the restorations pose a risk to public safety — has received little study, in part because data can be hard to come by.

The Times analyzed data from Washington State, where Mr. Zettergren had his gun rights restored. The most serious felons are barred, but otherwise judges have no discretion to reject the petitions, as long as the applicant fulfills certain criteria. (In 2003, a state appeals court panel stated that a petitioner “had no burden to show that he is safe to own or possess guns.”)

Since 1995, more than 3,300 felons and people convicted of domestic violence misdemeanors have regained their gun rights in the state — 430 in 2010 alone — according to the analysis of data provided by the state police and the court system. Of that number, more than 400 — about 13 percent — have subsequently committed new crimes, the analysis found. More than 200 committed felonies, including murder, assault in the first and second degree, child and drive-by shooting.

Even some felons who have regained their firearms rights say the process needs to be more rigorous.

“It’s kind of spooky, isn’t it?” said Beau Krueger, who has two assaults on his record and got his gun rights back last year in Minnesota after only a brief hearing, in which local prosecutors did not even participate. “We could have all kinds of crazy hoodlums out here with guns that shouldn’t have guns.”

The federal firearms prohibition for felons dates to the late 1960s, when the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. and Senator , along with rioting across the country, set off a clamor for stricter gun control laws. Congress enacted sweeping legislation that included a provision extending the firearms ban for convicted criminals beyond those who had committed “crimes of violence,” a standard adopted in the 1930s.

“All of our people who are deeply concerned about law and order should hail this day,” President said upon signing the Gun Control Act in October 1968.

Even the N.R.A. backed the bill. But by the late 1970s, a more hard-line faction, committed to an expansive view of the Second Amendment, had taken control of the group. A crowning achievement was the Firearm Owners Protection Act of 1986, which significantly loosened federal gun laws.

When it came to felons’ gun rights, the legislation essentially left the matter up to states. The federal gun restrictions would no longer apply if a state had restored a felon’s civil rights — to vote, sit on a jury and hold public office — and the individual faced no other firearms prohibitions.

The restoration issue drew relatively little notice in the Congressional battle over the bill. But officials of the federal identified the provision in an internal memo as among their serious concerns. Some state law enforcement officials also sounded the alarm.

When Senator David F. Durenberger, a Minnesota Republican, realized after the law passed that thousands of felons, including those convicted of violent crimes, in his state would suddenly be getting their gun rights back, he sought the N.R.A.’s help in rolling back the provision. Doug Kelley, his chief of staff at the time, thought the group would “surely want to close this loophole.”

But the senator, Mr. Kelley recalled, “ran into a stone wall,” as the N.R.A. threatened to pull its support for him if he did not drop the matter, which he eventually did.

“The N.R.A. slammed the door on us,” Mr. Kelley said. “That absolutely baffled me.”

Until then, the avenues for restoration had been narrow and few: a direct appeal to the federal firearms agency, which conducted detailed background investigations; a state pardon expressly authorizing gun possession, or a presidential pardon. Felons convicted of crimes involving guns or other weapons, as well as those convicted of violating federal gun laws, were expressly barred from applying to the federal firearms agency.

By contrast, the restoration of civil rights, which is now central to regaining gun rights, is relatively routine, automatic in many states upon completion of a sentence. In some states, felons must also petition for a judicial order specifically restoring firearms rights. Other potential paths include a pardon from the governor or state clemency board or a “set aside”— essentially, an annulment — of the conviction.

Today, in at least 11 states, including , Ohio, Minnesota and , restoration of firearms rights is automatic, without any review at all, for many nonviolent felons, usually once they finish their sentences, or after a certain amount of time crime-free. Even violent felons may petition to have their firearms rights restored in states like Ohio, Minnesota and . Some states, including and , award scores of pardons every year that specifically confer gun privileges.

Felons face steep odds, though, in states like , where the governor’s office gives out only a handful of pardons every year, if that.

“It’s a long, drawn-out process,” said Steve Lindley, chief of the State Department of Justice’s firearms bureau. “They were convicted of a felony crime. There are penalties for that.”

Studies on the impact of gun restrictions largely support barring felons from possessing firearms.

One study, published in the American Journal of Public Health in 1999, found that denying handgun purchases to felons cut their risk of committing new gun or violent crimes by 20 to 30 percent. A year earlier, a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that handgun purchasers with at least one prior misdemeanor — not even a felony — were more than seven times as likely as those with no criminal history to be charged with new offenses over a 15-year period.

Criminologists studying recidivism have found that felons usually have to stay out of trouble for about a decade before their risk of committing a crime equals that of people with no records. According to Alfred Blumstein, a professor at , for violent offenders, that period is 11 to 15 years; for drug offenders, 10 to 14 years; and for those who have committed property crimes, 8 to 11 years. An important caveat: Professor Blumstein did not look at what happens when felons are given guns.

The history of the federal firearms agency’s own restoration program, though, offers reason for caution. The program came under attack in the early 1990s, when the Violence Policy Center, a gun control group, discovered that dozens of felons granted restorations over a five-year period had been arrested again, including some on charges of attempted murder and sexual assault. (The center also found that many of those granted gun rights were felons convicted of violent or drug-related crimes.) In the resulting uproar and over the objections of the N.R.A., Congress killed the program.

In 2001, three police officers in the Columbia Heights suburb of were shot and wounded by a convicted murderer whose firearms rights had been restored automatically in 1987, 10 years after he completed a six-and-a-half year prison sentence and then probation for killing his estranged wife and a family friend with a shotgun. (The State Legislature had imposed the 10-year waiting period for violent felons after it discovered what Senator Durenberger had feared: that felons’ gun rights would be restored immediately under the Firearm Owners Protection Act.)

What happened in the wake of the shooting is emblematic of how the issue has played out in many states, particularly where the gun lobby is powerful.

Two Democratic legislators sought to impose a lifetime firearms ban on violent felons, although they concluded that for their bills to have any chance of passing, they would also have to set up a process that held out a hope of eventual restoration. They were unable, however, to get their bills through the Legislature.

The issue was taken up the following year by Republican lawmakers, but it became wrapped up in legislation to relax concealed-weapons laws. Initially, a moderate Republican introduced a bill with a 5- to 10-year waiting period for regaining gun rights, but the waiting period was scrapped entirely in the law, written by gun-rights advocates, that was finally enacted in 2003. That law, which does not even mandate that prosecutors be notified of the hearings, requires judges to grant the requests merely if the petitioners show “good cause.”

“The decision was, we have good judges and we trust them,” said Joseph Olson, who helped write the statute as president of the advocacy group Concealed Carry Reform Now.

One man who has benefited from a Minnesota judge’s gun rights ruling is William Holisky.

Mr. Holisky, an accountant who has struggled with and , had gone out only a few times with Karen Roman, a nurse he had met online, before she broke up with him.

In August 2006, Ms. Roman was getting ready to work a night shift, putting on makeup in the bathroom of her home in Duluth, when she heard a truck pulling up and a loud boom. Moments later, she heard another boom and glass breaking. She hit the floor, calling out to her teenage son in the other room to do the same as she crawled to the phone to dial 911.

The police arrested Mr. Holisky later that night for drunken driving. Several months later, they charged him in the shooting as well. He pleaded guilty to second-degree assault with a dangerous weapon.

Around the same time, he also pleaded guilty to a felony charge of making terroristic threats against an elderly neighbor. The woman had reported to the police that someone — she suspected Mr. Holisky — had left her a threatening and obscene note. She had also reported a series of escalating incidents that included harassing telephone calls, his entering her apartment and someone’s smashing her bedroom window. Mr. Holisky also had a misdemeanor burglary conviction from 2003, for breaking into an ex-girlfriend’s house, as well as another misdemeanor conviction for violating an order of protection.

In Mr. Holisky’s gun rights hearing in October 2010 in Two Harbors, a small town on the north shore of Lake Superior, Russell Conrow, the prosecutor in Lake County, argued that Mr. Holisky had not yet proved that he could stay clean, given that he had just gotten out of prison. Mr. Conrow also pointed out that there were two active orders of protection against Mr. Holisky.

“There were people still scared of him,” Mr. Conrow said recently.

For his part, Mr. Holisky took documents from the plea agreement in his assault case, in which the prosecutor in neighboring County agreed not to oppose the restoration of his firearms rights.

Mr. Holisky, who is 59, did not specify in his often-rambling petition exactly why he wanted a gun. He described his behavior in 2006 as an “aberration.”

The county judge, Kenneth Sandvik, was set to retire in a few months. He knew Mr. Holisky’s family from growing up in the community. Several weeks later, he ruled that Mr. Holisky had met the basic requirements of the law.

In an interview, Judge Sandvik said he had given considerable weight to the St. Louis County prosecutor’s agreement not to oppose the restoration of gun rights for Mr. Holisky. But Gary Bjorklund, an assistant St. Louis County attorney, said in an interview that he had been focused on extracting a guilty plea that would send Mr. Holisky to prison and had thought no judge would take a firearms request from Mr. Holisky seriously.

Judge Sandvik acknowledged that he had not looked into the details of Mr. Holisky’s assault case, arguing that his job had been only to review what the prosecutor had presented to him.

“We’re not investigators,” he said.

The ease with which Mr. Holisky regained his gun rights does not appear to be an anomaly. Using partial data from Minnesota’s Judicial Branch, The Times identified more than 70 cases since 2004 of people convicted of “crimes of violence” who have gotten their gun rights back. A closer look at a number of them found a superficial process. The cases included those of Mr. Krueger, who criticized the system as insufficiently rigorous after winning back his gun rights in a perfunctory hearing, and of another man whose petition was approved without even a hearing, even though his felony involved pulling a gun on a man.

The ruling in Mr. Holisky’s case prompted members of his family to write a series of frantic e-mails to Judge Sandvik and Mr. Conrow, warning of dire consequences.

It is not entirely clear whether Mr. Holisky, who did not respond to several requests for comment, is legally able to buy a gun at this point, because at least one of the outstanding orders of protection, which expires next year, appears to trip another federal prohibition. But Mr. Holisky has been writing letters to relatives in , threatening legal action if they do not turn over his gun collection.

So far, they have refused.

Just as in Minnesota, violent felons in Ohio are allowed to apply for restoration of firearms rights after completing their sentences. The statute is similarly vague, requiring only that a judge find that the petitioner has “led a law-abiding life since discharge or release, and appears likely to do so.”

Only a handful of county clerks in Ohio said they could track these cases, producing records on several dozen restorations. They included people who had been convicted of first-degree murder, voluntary manslaughter, felonious assault and sexual battery.

The case of Charles Hairston in Cuyahoga County stands out.

Mr. Hairston was 17 in January 1971, when he shot a man to death in , N.C. Mr. Hairston and a group of neighborhood toughs had been preparing to rob a local grocery store when the owner, Charles Minor, 55, closed up and headed for his car.

“I am fixing to get him,” Mr. Hairston told one of his friends, according to witness statements to the police, before he pulled the trigger on a 20-gauge shotgun.

Mr. Hairston spent 18 years in prison before being released on parole in 1989. He moved to Cleveland and started working in heating and cooling, a trade he had learned behind bars.

In 1995, he pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor charge for allegedly grabbing and pushing his wife.

More seriously, later that year he was indicted on 60 counts of rape, felonious sexual penetration and gross sexual imposition; prosecutors charged that he had forced sex upon his stepdaughter, starting when she was 12. He was acquitted of the most serious charges and convicted only of corruption of a minor for one encounter at a motel for which prosecutors were able to provide corroborating evidence beyond the girl’s detailed testimony.

Mr. Hairston, who denies the charges and is still fighting the conviction, filed his first gun rights restoration application in 2006 in Cuyahoga County but was summarily denied.

When he filed a new petition two years later, a judge thought he was ineligible and denied him again, though she wrote in her decision that she did not believe Mr. Hairston was likely to break the law again. But an appeals court ruled that the judge had misread the statute, and sent the case back for another hearing late last year.

The county prosecutor’s office had vigorously opposed the restoration from the beginning. But Mr. Hairston, who took in several friends as character witnesses, told the judge he had grown up in prison.

“Nearly 40 years ago, you know, I was a dumb kid,” Mr. Hairston said at his first hearing. He added, “I am in a situation now where if, God forbid, if someone was to come into my home and attack me, my wife, there isn’t a lot I could say about it, there isn’t a lot I could do.”

In the end, the judge, Hollie L. Gallagher, granted his petition without comment.

Soon after the judge’s ruling, Mr. Hairston obtained a concealed weapons permit from a neighboring county and bought a 9-millimeter semiautomatic handgun.

Erik Zettergren originally lost his gun rights in 1987 because of a felony conviction for dealing . A decade later, the police went to his house after being called by his ex-wife and discovered a cache of guns. He was convicted of another felony, unlawful possession of a firearm.

He relinquished his weapons to friends but eventually got them back, sometimes hiding them in an old car in his backyard, according to friends. Sometime after that, though, he became worried that the police might come after him again and turned over the guns — two long guns and a Glock pistol — to a friend, Tom Williams.

“I kept them under my bed,” Mr. Williams said.

In December 2004, Mr. Zettergren successfully petitioned in Kittitas County — a three-hour drive from his home — to have his gun rights restored. (Like Minnesota’s, Washington’s law allows petitioners to apply anywhere.) Court records show he did not even have a hearing. Instead, his lawyer, Paul T. Ferris, who specializes in these cases, took care of the matter.

Right away, Mr. Zettergren retrieved his guns from Mr. Williams and soon obtained a concealed pistol license. He made something of a sport of showing off his Glock to friends. “He was so proud of that thing,” said Larry Persons, a friend. “He was flashing it in front of everybody.”

Not long after, he would use it in the killing.

Washington’s gun rights restoration statute dates to a 1995 statewide initiative, the Hard Times for Armed Crimes Act, that toughened penalties for crimes involving firearms. The initiative was spearheaded, in part, by pro-gun activists, including leaders of the Second Amendment Foundation, an advocacy group, and the N.R.A.

Although it drew little notice at the time, the legislation also included an expansion of what had been very limited eligibility for restoration of firearms rights.

“There were a lot of people who we felt should be able to get their gun rights restored who could not,” said Alan M. Gottlieb, founder of the Second Amendment Foundation, who was active in the effort.

Under the legislation, “Class A” felons — who have committed the most serious crimes, like murder and manslaughter — are ineligible, as are sex offenders. Otherwise, judges are required to grant the petitions as long as, essentially, felons have not been convicted of any new crimes in the five years after completing their sentences. Judges have no discretion to deny the requests based upon character, mental health or any other factors. Mr. Gottlieb said they explicitly wrote the statute this way.

“We were having problems with judges that weren’t going to restore rights no matter what,” he said.

The statute’s mix of strictness and leniency makes Washington a useful testing ground.

The Times’s analysis found that among the more than 400 people who committed crimes after winning back their gun rights under the new law, more than 70 committed Class A or B felonies. Over all, more than 80 were convicted of some sort of assault and more than 100 of drug offenses.

There were cases like that of Mitchell W. Reed, disqualified from possessing firearms after a 1984 felony cocaine conviction. He also has seven misdemeanor convictions on his record from the 1980s, including for assault. In 2003, he successfully petitioned for his gun rights in Snohomish County Superior Court.

His wife, Debi Reed, went with him to the hearing and said in an interview that she had been shocked at how easily his rights were restored. He immediately bought a 9-millimeter semiautomatic handgun.

The following year, she said, he beat her up for the first time. In 2008 he became more angry and violent, she said, in one instance putting a gun in her hand during an argument, pointing it at his head and saying he was going to frame her for murder. During another fight that year, he struck her with a gun, giving her a black eye, and held a loaded gun to her head.

Mr. Reed was ultimately arrested in 2009 and charged with harassing and threatening to kill his wife’s ex-husband. While those charges were pending, he was arrested on second-degree assault charges after he beat up and tried to strangle his wife. The charging documents also mentioned the 2008 gun episode. He eventually pleaded guilty to third-degree assault and intimidating a witness, as well as fourth-degree assault and harassment.

Jason C. Keller, disqualified because of a 1997 burglary conviction, had his rights restored after a brief hearing in 2006. He waited a few years before buying a Hi-Point .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol, according to his girlfriend at the time, Shawna Braylock. But she did not trust him with the gun because of his temper, making him keep it at his parents’ house.

In 2010, Mr. Keller left a Fourth of July party in the late evening, picked up his gun and drove to the house of a woman he knew. He fired several shots as she stood out front with her 9-year-old son; her 6-year-old daughter was sleeping inside. Mr. Keller pleaded guilty to drive-by shooting, a felony.

In Mr. Zettergren’s case, his friends said they were shocked that a judge had restored his gun rights, because they knew he was receiving disability payments, in part because of mental health problems.

“Most of the people around here that knew him, knew that he could be dangerous,” said Darrell Reinhardt, one of Mr. Zettergren’s friends.

Mr. Zettergren’s mental health issues, in fact, have been at the heart of his efforts to appeal his convictions for second-degree murder, second-degree assault and unlawful imprisonment. He had been in counseling since 2000, and several mental health experts had found he had and , saying he had a “very high degree of psychological disturbance” and suffered frequent “flashbacks and disturbing images,” according to a declaration from a forensic psychologist in one of Mr. Zettergren’s appeal briefs. The post-traumatic stress, according to the psychologist, resulted from scenes he had witnessed years before, including his mother’s death by electrocution and the shooting death of a friend.

None of this was reviewed by the judge who heard Mr. Zettergren’s gun rights petition.

Donna Bly, the mother of Jason Robinson, Mr. Zettergren’s shooting victim, considered suing the county for negligence over the decision but could not find a lawyer to take the case. She also tried bringing the issue up with a state legislator but got nowhere.

“This man did not deserve to have his gun rights back,” she said.
393 2011-11-14 BOSTON — This city has a robust bar culture, with trivia nights, $1 oyster specials and plenty of other perks to keep patrons coming. But not since 1984, when “Cheers” was new to television, has Massachusetts allowed bars to hold happy hours.

It looked as if that might change last month, when the State Senate passed an amendment that could pave the way for bars and restaurants to once again serve free or discounted drinks during certain time periods.

The amendment’s ultimate passage seems doubtful now. But it has rekindled an old debate, even provoking a stern warning from former Gov. Michael Dukakis, who signed the ban on happy hours 27 years ago.

The Senate last month included the amendment in its version of a bill allowing casinos in Massachusetts. Specifically, it gave bars and restaurants the same rights that casinos would have under a new “gaming beverage license,” citing as theoretical examples “the right to give free alcoholic beverages to customers as part of promotions” and “drink specials that vary by night.”

State Senator Robert L. Hedlund, a restaurant owner who sponsored the amendment, said the idea was to put bars and restaurants on equal footing with the casinos that will be allowed to open in Massachusetts under legislation that is being completed in a conference committee. “We have the most restrictive laws in the country on drink promotion except for Utah, a Mormon state,” Mr. Hedlund said.
394 2011-11-14 From about 250 yards away, thousands of fans perched on the dunes behind the 17th hole could make out the guy in a red shirt posing over his shot, and then the ball appearing on the green and racing down a ridge to 12 feet behind the pin.

This is what they wanted to see Sunday at the Australian Open in Sydney.

Tiger Woods, gone for most of the year and rarely on the leader board when he played, faced an eagle putt that would have given him a share of the lead late in the final round at The Lakes.

Moments later, three groups behind him, Greg Chalmers hit a 7-iron to 18 inches on the par-3 15th for a birdie that put him back in control and led to a one-shot victory over John Senden. Woods closed with a five-under 67 and finished third, two shots back.

Woods has gone two full years since his last win, at the Australian Masters, and yet he headed south to Royal Melbourne for the Presidents Cup with reason for optimism.

Two bad tee shots slowed his charge, one of them a questionable decision. Yet there also was a birdie on the second-toughest hole to keep alive his hopes; a chip-in for eagle on the 14th hole when nothing less would suffice; and three solid rounds that gave him his first real chance of winning in nearly a year.
395 2011-11-14 ¶Cedar Fair, Sandusky, Ohio, selected the Chicago office of Cramer-Krasselt to be the advertising and public relations agency of record for its 10 amusement parks, which operate under names like Cedar Point and Knott’s Berry Farm. The advertising duties for the $50 million assignment had been handled by Yellow Submarine, Pittsburgh, and the public relations duties had been handled internally.

¶Bob Scarpelli, chairman at DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, will retire at the end of the year after almost 35 years at DDB and the predecessor agencies Needham, Harper & Steers and Needham Harper Worldwide. Mr. Scarpelli began his career in Chicago and relocated to New York, where DDB has its headquarters; he has since moved back to Chicago. Mr. Scarpelli will serve as a consultant after his retirement, DDB said.

¶Thom Gruhler, president at McCann New York — the flagship New York office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies — was named to a new post at the McCann Worldgroup, global managing partner for telecommunications and technology.

¶Shout was opened by Ale Lariu, who becomes chief executive, and Amanda Jaskiewicz, chief operating officer. Shout operates everybodyshout.com, a crowd-sourcing Web site for women in advertising. Ms. Lariu, who is a founder of SheSays, had most recently been a senior vice president and group creative director at McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Ms. Jaskiewicz had most recently been a group account director at Dare, London.

¶The Association of National Advertisers, New York, announced the winners of its 2011 Multicultural Excellence Awards, for campaigns that ran from June 2010 to June 2011. There were honors in nine categories, including for a campaign with significant results, which was presented to Alma DDB, part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group; Alma DDB won for work for Visit Florida that carried the theme “Your Florida side.” More information can be found at ana.net/content/show/id/22330.

¶Two former top executives of the United States division of Posterscope, part of the Aegis Media unit of the Aegis Group, London, were arrested and charged with what the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and the Federal Bureau of Investigation called a five-year, $19.75 million accounting fraud scheme. They are Todd Hansen, the former president, and James Buckley, the former finance director. Posterscope specializes in media outside the home like billboards, signs and posters. The men were charged with obtaining raises, bonuses and stock options they did not deserve by falsifying revenue figures to make it appear as if the division was meeting certain performance targets.
396 2011-11-14 During a screening of  “When the Smoke Clears,” I realized I had lost sight of Frazier’s humanity and turned him into a symbol.

A generation of young adults — my generation and one slightly older — debated conformity and rebellion, war and peace, principle and co-option through the prisms of Frazier and Ali. In public discourse, the difference between them was articulation: Ali owned language, Frazier did not.

For most of his career as a boxer and a champion, Joe Frazier fought and lived in the shadow of Muhammad Ali. Mike Todd, who spent five years with Frazier while shooting the documentary, said that his goal was to pull Frazier out of that shadow. Todd, born in Manchester, England, was 6 when Ali and Frazier fought their “Fight of the Century” in 1971.

“I was always fascinated with that era and the way boxing came to represent so many things and the way it was so culturally important,”  Todd said in an interview at the New York screening  of his film.

“What was missing, in terms of Joe’s story, was who Joe was as a human being outside of his rivalry with Muhammad Ali, particularly the work he did in Philadelphia with his gym, keeping it open for 40 years.”

Todd and his fellow producer Quenell Jones faced an uphill climb, for it was Frazier’s misfortune to share the stage with one of the brightest stars of the 20th century.

Seven years before he fought Frazier, Ali hooked many of us — and created lifetime enemies — when he roasted Sonny Liston in and out of the ring and became the heavyweight champion. By the time he took on Frazier in 1971, Ali had achieved a stature of near-mythic proportions. In 1967, Ali refused to join the Army on religious grounds. The New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and stripped him of his title, and for three years, Ali was unable to fight. A jury found Ali guilty, and his case went to the Supreme Court,  which reversed the conviction in 1971.

Ever the showman, Ali had elevated signifying to an art form. Frazier, like Liston before him and George Foreman after, was no match.

Ali called Frazier stupid and ugly, and with a nod to the militant times, called Frazier an Uncle Tom. Frazier became Ali’s foil, the straight man of Ali’s routines, the country cousin to Ali’s urban cool, the white man’s Negro to Ali’s black nationalist. At least in my circle of friends, there was consensus that this was part of an act. Still, Ali’s gorilla teasing and Uncle Tom comments hit a nerve, especially among African-Americans, who were embracing black pride, black is beautiful and an I’m-black-and-I’m-proud ideology that, for many, Ali symbolized.

“He was the leader of a generation,”  Todd said.  “Joe couldn’t match it in terms of personality.”

Yet Frazier boycotted the 1967 heavyweight elimination tournament to find a successor to Ali. And Frazier petitioned President Richard M. Nixon to have Ali’s right to box reinstated.

The debate over Ali and Frazier — who was more American, who had black interests more at heart — is part of a tradition in which African-Americans who achieve prominence become polarizing symbols of vexing questions: what does it mean to be an American; what does it mean to be an African-American in the United States?

Did Frazier ever truly forgive Ali? Did he ever hate Ali in the first place? Only Frazier knew, although everyone who spent time around him has a different view.

At the very least, it seems obvious that each man had a respect for the other.  “I think the idea of the rivalry provided really good copy for so long,” Todd said. “But this idea that Joe Frazier never forgave him — it’s not like that. It’s more complicated than that. Joe was affected by it. He was affected by the way he was seen, by the way he was perceived. It affected  the way he was remembered and known.

“Ultimately he wasn’t clinging to it. He had a very full life. Even in his last few years when his life might have been more difficult, he was just the same, I think because of how he had grown up. He responded to things in a certain way, with resilience and good humor. He wasn’t a bitter man.”

In his book “The Greatest: My Own Story,” written with Richard Durham, Ali recalled the bedlam in the ring after his loss to Frazier in 1971 and how he felt a tug on his robe.

“Joe has come over to my corner,” Ali said. “ ‘You put up a great fight,’ he said. His face is so swollen I can hardly see his eyes, but I know he’s looking at me. ‘You the champion,’ I say. He seems to like that. It’s the first time as a pro that I have acknowledged another man over me.”

As part of the prefight hype, Ali had promised to crawl across the ring if he lost to Frazier. “Joe seems to read my mind,” Ali says in the book.  “Blood is seeping from cuts in his lip.  ‘We don’t do no crawling,’ he said. ‘You fought one helluva fight.’ ”

The great challenge for Frazier’s family and fans is how to preserve his legacy. With any major figure in history, there is a danger of having one’s legacy hijacked, distorted or misinterpreted. There should always be a keeper of the flame.

Ali’s legacy lives on in the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville, Ky. Jackie Robinson will soon have the Jackie Robinson Museum in New York. For 40 years,  Joe Frazier had his gym in Philadelphia, but the gym closed two years ago.

Frazier’s legacy will always be tied to Ali’s, although perhaps the  new documentary and the outpouring of recollections will create a space in which Smokin’ Joe’s  legacy will stand on its own.

He was not the greatest fighter, not the smoothest talker, but, as Ali once said of Frazier, “I’ve never fought anyone with a will so strong.” Leslie Wolff, Frazier’s manager for the last seven years, said,  “Forget his boxing career; he was one heck of a human being.”

Joe Frazier was not a symbol or a foil. He was a son, a brother, a  husband, a father, “who lived and breathed and got angry and got hurt and had dreams and disappointments.”
397 2011-11-14 It turns out, a kiss is never just a kiss.

In 2010 the interdisciplinary artists Brennan Gerard and Ryan Kelly became fascinated by Tino Sehgal’s “Kiss,” a slow-motion loop of choreography for two embracing dancers that was then being performed at the Guggenheim Museum.

Mr. Gerard and Mr. Kelly set out to learn the sequence of movements, dictating what they saw into their cellphones and even staging their own kiss using same-sex couples instead of the male-female casting that the original “Kiss” required. Mr. Sehgal’s stipulation sparked a certain amount of ire within the New York performance world; a video response by Mr. Gerard and Mr. Kelly (who are also romantic partners) was titled “You Call This Progress?,” a play on Mr. Sehgal’s main work then at the Guggenheim, “This Progress.”

Now comes “Reusable Parts/Endless Love,” a beautifully built and thought-provoking performance installation by Mr. Gerard and Mr. Kelly that had its premiere on Thursday at Danspace Project, and that draws from both Mr. Sehgal’s “Kiss” and “You Call This Progress?” In their program notes Mr. Gerard and Mr. Kelly describe “Reusable Parts/Endless Love” as “a tonic to an earlier work of ours, which was itself a response.”

But if the work proposes an alternative to the politics implied (or avoided by) Mr. Sehgal’s “Kiss,” it also reveals a new set of biases and hierarchies; it’s not as easy to step outside your worldview as the lengthy program notes suggest.

The layers build up and up, tangling on paper and in the performance. Doing away with fixed seating and incorporating large, rolling partitions, which are moved periodically throughout the installation to reconfigure the theater and to disrupt sight lines, the artists have transformed St. Mark’s Church in the East Village into a space for catch-as-catch-can interactive experiences. Throughout the 75-minute show viewers, who are invited to roam freely throughout the space, must keep moving if they want to stay close to the action — or get out of its way. Six performers follow Mr. Gerard and Mr. Kelly’s Guggenheim script, responding to its every garble and interruption in restless skeins of movement that send them through luscious spirals, freeze them in awkward balances and leave them splayed and spent on the floor.

In addition to the moving screens a delicate grid of wires floats in the air above the action; the idea of transmission, and how faulty it can be, is everywhere reinforced, as is the question of who is granted access to what. (Trent Wolbe is the sound engineer, Marcus Doshi the scenic and lighting designer.)
398 2011-11-14 The clashes over the weekend were between groups from Zawiyah and Warshefana, an area on the outskirts of Tripoli where some residents are accused by former rebels from other areas of continuing to support the old government. During the uprising, pro-Qaddafi officials took reporters to see crowds in Warshefana chanting in support of the former Libyan leader, as well as for tribal autonomy.

The fighting first broke out last week and erupted again on Saturday afternoon. It was rooted at least in part in a dispute over control of a former Qaddafi military base on the highway. Also at issue were historical boundaries between the communities, some of the gathered fighters said.

By Saturday evening, as tracer rounds from machine guns could be seen occasionally arcing into the sky, the militia from Zawiyah had sounded a general alarm and flooded the road with hundreds of nervous gunmen. Most were armed only with automatic rifles, but a few trucks mounted with heavy machine guns or rocket launchers could also be seen. The men searched passing cars for weapons and suspicious passengers, and occasionally fired into the air.

Knots of fighters rushed eastward toward Warshefana in their cars and trucks, but they came under fire and they turned back toward Zawiyah; several were killed. One fighter in retreat expressed dismay and confusion, saying that their opponents were firing at them from hiding places along the road.

Some of the Zawiyah fighters said their opponents were Qaddafi loyalists, others said they were a rival militia and some were not sure whom they were fighting.

“I don’t know if they are rebels or Qaddafi guys,” a panicked gunmen said as he pulled back from the military base. “But they fired an antiaircraft gun at us, and we could not keep going.”

Ambulances periodically rushed by, lights flashing, carrying more wounded. The Zawiyah fighters held up all other traffic on the coastal highway on Saturday, saying the road was too dangerous. “The people shooting at us have machine guns and tanks,” one of them said, as rumors swept through the milling crowds.

Heavy rain at night seemed to disperse the fighters and calm the dispute temporarily, and by dawn Sunday, traffic on the highway had resumed. In the afternoon, the fighting flared up once more, then subsided again. It was not clear whether that lull, too, would prove temporary, though political figures appeared eager to assure the nervous nation that it would hold.

Mustafa Abdel-Jalil, chairman of the Transitional National Council, said he hoped the two sides would reach an agreement that would end the fighting, which he said pitted one group of former rebels against another.

“I want to assure the Libyan people that everything is under control,” he said.

The violence was the latest in a series of relatively small clashes around the country in recent weeks.

In addition to sitting astride the strategic highway, Zawiyah is the site of the nation’s second-largest refinery and oil port, where production was shut down in August and is just beginning to return to normal. No damage or incidents were reported at the oil facility.

Tensions between Zawiyah and Warshefana have been rising for the last week, after fighters from Zawiyah entered Warshefana to confiscate weapons. Warshefana fighters retaliated by setting up barricades and firing on the coastal highway, the Zawiyah militia said.

Many of the claims and counterclaims could not be independently confirmed, including reports heard through several of hours of confusion Saturday night that the fighters shooting at the Zawiyah men might be led by Seif el-Islam, one of Colonel Qaddafi’s sons.

What could be confirmed was grief. At a cemetery in Tripoli, a grave was being dug for Siraj Erteeb, 24, described by friends as an anti-Qaddafi student of economics who did not fight in the revolution but somehow had been killed during the fighting on Saturday.

“He had no relation to any of the militias,” said Muad Erfeeb, a friend helping with the digging. “But he was killed, and now we wait for his body.”
399 2011-11-14 Apple is reaching into Google's Wallet.     This week Apple introduced a new feature for the iPhone in its Apple Store app. The feature, called EasyPay, allows people to take a picture of the bar code of a product with the phone's camera and then ...
400 2011-11-14 Guide dogs for the blind could soon be out of a job.     NSK, a Japanese company, is hard at work on a robotic  dog that can roll across floors, climb stairs and assist those with limited or no sight. The robots, which can be seen in the video abo...
401 2011-11-15 This week, a New York Times opinion forum took up discussion of legacy preferences in college admission....
402 2011-11-15 This week, a New York Times opinion forum took up discussion of legacy preferences in college admission....
403 2011-11-15 Apple is pushing out its iOS update, which is supposed to cure battery problems that have plagued some iPhone 4s owners, although owners report uneven results from the update....
404 2011-11-15 Apple is pushing out its iOS update, which is supposed to cure battery problems that have plagued some iPhone 4s owners, although owners report uneven results from the update....
405 2011-11-15 Netflix on Tuesday launched a revamped Netflix app for Android tablets before releasing the same new software for the iPad. The move isn't a great sign for Apple, which benefits from the abundance of apps available for its devices. In this case, t...
406 2011-11-15 In a video, Melissa Clark explains which apples make for the best pie....
407 2011-11-15 In a video, Melissa Clark explains which apples make for the best pie....
408 2011-11-15 SP Newsprint, one of the country's biggest newsprint makers, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Tuesday amid rising commodity prices, tough competition from overseas and the migration of readers to the Web....
409 2011-11-15 SP Newsprint, one of the country's biggest newsprint makers, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Tuesday amid rising commodity prices, tough competition from overseas and the migration of readers to the Web....
410 2011-11-15 In preparation for Thanksgiving, Melissa Clark on what apples are best to use in pie.
411 2011-11-15 Facebook’s coming Timeline feature is exactly as it sounds, a chronological narrative of a Facebook user’s life. But in reality, Timeline takes self-obsession to a level that feels too egocentric....
412 2011-11-15 Facebook's coming Timeline feature is exactly as it sounds, a chronological narrative of a Facebook user's life. But in reality, Timeline takes online narcissism to a whole new level....
413 2011-11-15 Apple on Tuesday named Arthur D. Levinson as its non-executive chairman and said Robert A. Iger of the Walt Disney Company would join the board....
414 2011-11-15 Apple on Tuesday named Arthur D. Levinson as its non-executive chairman and said Robert A. Iger of the Walt Disney Company would join the board....
415 2011-11-15 A highly charged political dispute in the Senate over the handling of terrorism detainees has moved forward, but the agreement could provoke a rebellion by some Senate Democrats....
416 2011-11-15 A highly charged political dispute in the Senate over the handling of terrorism detainees has moved forward, but the agreement could provoke a rebellion by some Senate Democrats....
417 2011-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
418 2011-11-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
419 2011-11-15 Michael Luo, a Times reporter, is answering questions prompted by his recent article on how easy it is in many states for people with felony convictions to get their gun rights reinstated....
420 2011-11-15 Michael Luo, a Times reporter, is answering questions prompted by his recent article on how easy it is in many states for people with felony convictions to get their gun rights reinstated....
421 2011-11-15 A lot has been written about Apple’s appeal with consumers. Nick Wingfield, a Times technology reporter, takes a look at how the company is faring with corporate customers.  He reports that while Steven P. Jobs never cared much for selling Apple...
422 2011-11-15 Corporate technology buyers say Apple does not try to hide the fact that consumers are still its top priority, but they note that the company has gotten easier to work with in recent years. It also doesn't hurt that Apple's new chief executive, Ti...
423 2011-11-15 Articles in a medical journal say the Food and Drug Administration needs to offer doctors and consumers more guidance about potentially dangerous prescriptions....
424 2011-11-15 Articles in a medical journal say the Food and Drug Administration needs to offer doctors and consumers more guidance about potentially dangerous prescriptions....
425 2011-11-15 A company called Free ATMs NYC aims to offer free A.T.M.’s that feature advertising....
426 2011-11-15 Free ATMs NYC aims to offer free A.T.M.'s that feature advertising....
427 2011-11-15 The court's move to hear the health care case next year will force a high-profile debate just as Mitt Romney may be trying to secure the Republican nomination....
428 2011-11-15 The court's move to hear the health care case next year will force a high-profile debate just as Mitt Romney may be trying to secure the Republican nomination....
429 2011-11-15 The Japanese companies announced plans on Tuesday to merge in a deal that would create the country's second-largest maker of stainless steel....
430 2011-11-15 The Japanese companies announced plans on Tuesday to merge in a deal that would create the country's second-largest maker of stainless steel....
431 2011-11-15 He says he rarely visits hotel business centers but has noticed they are more likely to offer just three or four computers, rather than a set of cubicles with 10 or 15 workspaces.

Business travelers do not want to go to a windowless business center, said Niki Leondakis, president and chief operating officer of the Kimpton hotel chain, but they do need to use their computers, make calls and print documents. She said Kimpton had refurbished many guest rooms to include bigger desks with improved lighting and an ergonomic rolling chair, rather than an armchair.

“It’s just about everything that used to be in a business center except the printer,” she said. Guests use their room for conference calls as well as individual work, she said.

At the Peninsula Hotel in Tokyo, guest rooms are equipped with fax and printing capabilities, and televisions that can connect to laptop computers. A business center in the basement houses three computer booths and a printer, and while an employee currently works there, the hotel is considering leaving it unstaffed because few guests use it.

The Four Seasons Hotel in Beirut has two computers in its business center, and provides translating services there — a feature offered by many international hotels.

As part of a large survey project, Holiday Inn gave guests a journal to record what they did in the hotel and where they spent their time. The company found that business travelers used the hotel’s high-speed Internet connections and printing to help them get work done, but did not want to leave the lobby.

“Guests are social,” said Verchele Wiggins, vice president of global brand management for Holiday Inn. “They want to be productive, but they like to be around other people.”

This spring, Holiday Inn removed the business center at its hotel in Atlanta and introduced “The Hub” to test the concept of a lobby that also acts as a business center, living room and place to eat. “Travelers are multitasking all the time,” Ms. Wiggins said. They may be checking their e-mail while they are drinking their morning cappuccino, or printing a boarding pass while waiting for a taxi to the airport.

The lobby offers free Wi-Fi, power outlets to charge computers and phones, and a small row of computers and wireless printing. A so-called eBar allows business people to meet over cocktails, surrounded by library shelves.

“It’s the environment they want,” Ms. Wiggins said.

While many of the new services for business travelers are inspired by research and surveys, others are serendipitous. As part of the Hub, Holiday Inn installed a Wii game console for families to use, but it found that business travelers were using it more than leisure travelers. “We had to install another Wii for the business people,” Ms. Wiggins said.

Franchise owners around the country have seen the concept and are requesting a Hub on their property, Ms. Wiggins said, and any property that gets one will have its business center removed.

Many new hotels are being designed with scaled-down business centers or none at all. The Four Seasons Hotel Denver, which opened in 2010, has a business center with three workstations and one printer. And the Hyatt Olive 8 in Seattle, which opened in 2009, has a kiosk for printing boarding passes in the lobby but no dedicated room with equipment. The coffee bar offers free Wi-Fi, and there is a laptop at the front desk that hotel guests can borrow.

Other hotels are also changing their idea of a business center. Mandarin Oriental has designed a business lounge in its new hotel in Milan. Currently under construction, it will be a place for business travelers to meet, get work done, borrow an iPad or play games on Microsoft surface tables. The space is designed to “reduce the sense of isolation that business travelers may feel when working alone in a hotel room,” Ms. Nerger said.

Shangri-La Hotels, which plans to build about 40 new luxury hotels over the next five years, mostly in Asia, is designing its new business centers with just a few computers and printers, and intends to offer more lounge spaces and small meeting rooms.

Mr. Schwartz of Zillow said he did not miss working in a traditional hotel business center. “Inevitably I’d be grinding though a strategy document and some guy in the next cubicle would be talking loudly on a call, and I couldn’t get away from it,” he said.

Now, Mr. Schwartz said, he just moves to another part of the lobby or behind a different potted plant.
432 2011-11-15 The Los Angeles Dodgers are operating under bankruptcy protection, yet they are on the verge of signing their star outfielder, Matt Kemp, to a contract said to be worth $160 million over eight years.

Does that make any sense?

Bankruptcy, of course, does not mean that the Dodgers have no money. They borrowed $150 million from Major League Baseball and expect to reap a financial windfall by selling their future media rights.

And under bankruptcy law, the Dodgers can sign Kemp without the approval of the court or M.L.B.

“Dodgers transactions with its players are in the ordinary course of business,” said Bruce Bennett, the team’s lead bankruptcy lawyer. “The relevant provision in the bankruptcy code makes a distinction between transactions in the ordinary course of business and those not in the ordinary course of business.”

He said that the allowable transactions “can be quite large.”

Peter Kaufman, president of the Gordian Group, an investment bank that specializes in bankruptcies and restructurings, said that if the court did not allow companies in bankruptcy to enter such ordinary transactions like the expected signing of Kemp, “You couldn’t do any business at all.”

By contrast, the Dodgers’ motion to market their media rights as soon as possible must be approved by the court, as must the process agreed to by the team and baseball last week to sell the franchise.
433 2011-11-15 “We wanted to make sure the penalty was sufficient enough to send a message to other airlines that our first enforcement sets a precedent, and that these are serious matters,” Mr. LaHood said in an interview.

The fine was the second federal action in recent days related to tarmac delays. On Friday, the Federal Aviation Administration said that it would bring airlines, airports and air traffic controllers together at the end of this month to find ways to get better information to airlines when bad weather forces them to divert flights to smaller airports that do not always have sufficient manpower and equipment. A lack of communication was blamed in the stranding of hundreds of passengers at Bradley International Airport, outside Hartford, when a snowstorm hit the Northeast Oct. 29.

The tarmac delay rule was prompted by a series of incidents in which passengers complained of being stranded on airplanes for hours with no chance of getting off, often with little food or water, and in some cases without functioning bathrooms.

The airlines had fought the rule, arguing that it would lead to more canceled flights and seriously complicate their efforts to operate in bad weather. One executive, Jeffrey A. Smisek, then the head of Continental Airlines, said the rule was “stupid” and would make things worse for passengers. Airlines now claim they are more likely to cancel a flight than risk a fine.

That assertion was backed up by a report in September by the Government Accountability Office, which found that flights were three times more likely to be canceled if they stayed on the tarmac two to three hours.

“As our analysis has shown, the rule appears to be associated with an increased number of cancellations for thousands of additional passengers — far more than D.O.T. initially predicted — including some who might not have experienced a tarmac delay,” the government agency said in its report.

There is no question the rule has radically reduced the number of lengthy tarmac delays.

From May 2010 to April 2011, the first year after the three-hour rule went into effect, there were just 20 occurrences of more than three hours, and none exceeded four hours. Although there have been dozens more since, that is still down from 693 occurrences in the 12 months before the rule went into effect. In 105 of those cases, the delays were longer than four hours, according to the Transportation Department.

The rule, which originally applied only to domestic flights, was extended to international flights in August, but with a four-hour limit.

The department’s enforcement office continues to investigate 15 to 20 flight delays in recent months in excess of three hours. In most cases, investigators have found that some exception to the rule applied — either because bad weather, like thunderstorms, prohibited passengers from getting off the plane safely or because delays were attributable to directions from air traffic control.

In the case of American Eagle, however, investigators found that the airline had been solely responsible for the delays, even if the length of the delays was not among the most egregious.

Two of the American Eagle flights exceeded the three-hour limit by just three minutes. More than half the flights violated the limit by less than 15 minutes. The longest delay, involving a flight arriving from El Paso with 31 passengers, was three hours and 45 minutes.

The investigators said that American Eagle continued to land flights at O’Hare on May 29, the day before Memorial Day, even though some flights were not able to leave the airport because of fog and bad weather conditions. As a result, some arriving flights had no gate to park at once they landed.

American Eagle’s operations center issued a ground stop for all arrivals into O’Hare at around 3:50 to 4 p.m. that day. “However, by 4 p.m., a gridlock situation had already begun to develop at the American Eagle ramp, and each hour thereafter the situation got progressively worse in terms of arrivals exceeding departures,” according to the Department of Transportation consent order.

The problems were aggravated by the airline’s on-duty tower manager who “continued to believe that the delay situation was still manageable,” as late as 8:05 p.m., the department said. The airline’s program to allow passengers to get off the plane was finally initiated at 8:30 p.m. and it cleared two gates. By then, 15 flights had been on the tarmac for more than three hours.

“We take our responsibility to comply with all of the department’s requirements very seriously and have already put in place processes to avoid such an occurrence in the future,” Daniel P. Garton, American Eagle’s chief executive, said in a statement. American Eagle is owned by the AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, which is in the process of spinning off the regional carrier into a separate company.

American Eagle has already paid $150,000 in compensation to its passengers, or an average of $250 a person. It agreed to settle the matter to avoid litigation.
434 2011-11-15 Britain will deploy ground-to-air missiles if they are judged “operationally necessary” to protect the 2012 summer Olympic Games in London, Defense Minister Philip Hammond told Parliament on Monday. With less than nine months to go before the Games, Mr. Hammond offered reassurances about safety in the wake of British newspaper articles saying concerns about the adequacy of security arrangements had been raised by the United States. “All necessary measures to secure the security and safety of the London Olympic Games will be taken, including — if the advice of the military is that it is required — appropriate ground-to-air defenses,” Mr. Hammond told the House of Commons. Police spokesmen have said that 12,000 officers will be deployed to protect the Olympic sites, as well as at least 10,000 private security guards, and that British military units will be on standby if needed.
435 2011-11-15 The bishops are struggling to reclaim the role they played in the 1980s and into the ’90s as a nationally recognized voice on the moral dimension of public policy issues like economic inequality, workers’ rights, and nuclear weapons proliferation. Since then, however, they have reordered their priorities, with abortion and homosexuality eclipsing poverty and economic injustice.

But as the sexual-abuse scandal largely overshadowed their agenda in the last decade, their pronouncements on politics and morality have been met with indifference even by many of their own flock. The bishops issue guidelines for Catholic voters every election season, a document known as “Forming Consciences for Faithful Citizenship,” which is distributed in many parishes. But the bishops were informed at their meeting on Monday that a recent study commissioned by Fordham University in New York found that only 16 percent of Catholics had heard of the document, and only 3 percent had read it.

Nevertheless, the bishops remain a forceful political lobby, powerful enough to nearly derail the president’s two years ago over their concerns about financing for abortion. Last week, the White House, cognizant of the bishops’ increasing ire, invited Archbishop Dolan to a private meeting with , their second. Archbishop Dolan said they talked about the religious liberty issue, among others.

“I found the president of the to be very open to the sensitivities of the Catholic community,” Archbishop Dolan said in the news conference. “I left there feeling a bit more at peace about this issue than when I entered.”

But in an impassioned address to the prelates, Bishop William E. Lori of Bridgeport, Conn., the chairman of the bishops’ newly established committee on religious liberty, said the church would urge priests and laypeople to take up the religious liberty cause. Bishop Lori said that in states like and , and in the , Catholic agencies that received state financing had been forced to stop offering adoption and services because those states required them to help same-sex couples to adopt, just as they helped heterosexual couples.

Bishop Lori said in his speech, “The services which the Catholic Church and other denominations provide are more crucial than ever, but it is becoming more and more difficult for us to deliver these services in a manner that respects the very faith that impels us to provide them.”

The bishops have also been lobbying the to expand the religious exemption to the mandate in Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul that requires private insurers to pay for . The exemption, as currently written, would still require Catholic hospitals and universities to cover for most of their employees — which the church says is a violation of its religious freedom.

Some liberal Catholic commentators have criticized the bishops’ priorities, saying they are playing into the culture wars. John Gehring, Catholic outreach coordinator with Faith in Public Life, a liberal religious advocacy group in Washington, said, “The bishops speak in hushed tones when it comes to poverty and economic justice issues, and use a big megaphone when it comes to abortion and religious liberty issues.”
436 2011-11-15 “Audi is still the de facto car for government officials,” said Wang Zhi, a Beijing taxi driver who has been plying the capital’s gridlocked streets for 18 years. “It’s always best to yield to an Audi — you never know who you’re messing with, but chances are it’s someone self-important.”

With annual growth hovering above 30 percent in recent years, the Chinese auto market is rapidly surpassing the United States’ as the world’s most lucrative and strategically important. Last year alone, the Chinese bought an estimated 13.8 million passenger vehicles, handily topping the 11.6 million units sold in the United States. Foreign-origin brands, most of which are manufactured in China through joint ventures, accounted for 64 percent of total sales in 2010, according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.

Even if Chinese brand associations can seem remote and perhaps amusing to those outside the country, Zhang Yu, managing director of Automotive Foresight, a Shanghai industry consultancy, says they will prove decisive to sales in coming decades. “China is already the largest automobile market in the world. No car company can afford to overlook its Chinese brand,” he said.

The lower rungs of the Chinese market are still dominated by domestic brands like Chery, whose name and numerous models suggest more than a passing resemblance to Chevy. The affluent, however, are flocking to an increasingly diverse array of foreign luxury offerings. The rapid market expansion has presented some foreign carmakers with a chance for brand reinvention, while posing public relations challenges to others.

“Because the market is so young, brand perceptions and a car’s face” — an idiom meaning prestige or repute — “are both critical,” said Mr. Zhang, pointing out that 80 percent of car purchases are made by first-time buyers.

Audi’s party technocrat associations are a result partly of the car’s early market entry and its longstanding place on the government’s coveted purchasing list. Audi, the German automaker, gained access to the Chinese market in 1988 when its owner, Volkswagen, struck a joint venture with Yiqi, a Chinese carmaker. By contrast, BMW’s first domestic factory opened in 2003, giving Audi 15 years to establish itself as the premier vehicle for China’s elite.

This early advantage has helped Audi to dominate China’s lucrative government-car market, with 20 percent of its China revenue in 2009 drawn directly from government sales. Each year, the Procurement Center of the Central People’s Government releases a list of the cars and models acceptable for government purchase. While the A6 has long been a mainstay on the list, which had 38 brands in 2010, BMW made the cut only in 2009.

“When people see government officials in BMWs, they automatically suspect corruption or malfeasance — but Audis are to be expected,” said Jessica Wu, a public relations professional with almost a decade of experience in the Chinese car industry. A basic model Audi A6 costs 355,000 renminbi, or $56,000, while the BMW 5 series Li costs about 428,000 renminbi, or $67,520.

Such market positioning has brought significant financial results for Audi — in 2010, the company sold 227,938 vehicles in China, more than double the number in the United States.

The Munich-based automaker BMW, on the other hand, has found itself in a contrary position. Since entering the Chinese market, BMW has acquired a reputation as a vehicle for the arrogant and the rash, making it largely off-limits to wealthy officials who prefer a low-key public image.

Part of this stereotype is rooted in a 2003 incident in which a young female driver in the northeastern city of Harbin intentionally ran over and killed an impoverished man who had accidentally dented her BMW X5. Despite the transparent nature of the case — a clear motive and numerous eyewitnesses — the case was settled out of court for $11,000. The incident was seen as driving a wedge between China’s rich and poor, damaging BMW’s nascent image.

More recently, a driver in a BMW M6 struck and killed a pedestrian in May during an illegal street race in the city of Nanjing, setting off a public outcry.

“If it hadn’t been a BMW, I don’t think it would have been as big of a deal,” said a young man who had taken part in the race and spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was awaiting trial. “Had it been all Toyotas, Mitsubishis or even Audis, I don’t think it would have provoked as dire a reaction.”

Despite such public relations travails, BMW has posted strong sales in China, selling 121,614 units in the first two quarters of 2011, or 27 percent of the company’s total sales during that period.

The American carmaker General Motors has found the Chinese market to be a life-saving opportunity for the reinvention of the Buick brand. Since 2005, when Bob Lutz, the vice chairman of G.M., famously declared Buick a “damaged brand,” America’s oldest surviving automobile make has successfully positioned itself in China as a top-tier luxury carmaker.

Largely the result of effective marketing and remodeling, China’s romance with the Buick also has historical roots. The last Chinese emperor, Pu Yi, was the proud owner of two Buicks, as was the country’s first provisional president, Dr. Sun Yat-sen. The black Buick 8 driven by a onetime premier, Zhou Enlai, is still displayed at his former residence in Shanghai, now a museum.

In 2010, Buick sold over 550,000 cars in China, more than triple its sales in the United States.

“We joke that our market revived Buick from the dead — it’s only partly a joke,” said Liu Wen, a reporter for China Auto News.

On Sina Weibo, the country’s most popular microblogging service, a recent posting tried to sum up the car clichés. “A gathering of Mercedes indicates a get-together for old folks,” the writer said. “A group of BMWs means young nouveaux riches are about to run someone over and have a party; several Audis, and you know it’s a government meeting.”
437 2011-11-15 The Western marsh harrier is a typical hawk. It has a sharp beak and talons, which it uses to kill other creatures for food and to defend its territory. It’s the kind of bird that exemplifies military virtues, and it’s no wonder that it has a fighter jet, the British-made Harrier, named after it. Recent science, however, has discovered another side to the harrier that may not fit as well with the rather macho military image. Some harriers have evolved an alternative lifestyle — cross-dressing.

Hawks don’t wear clothes, of course, or makeup or stiletto heels, so they can’t dress at all, strictly speaking. But they do depend on appearance, in their case plumage, to advertise their sex. The males have light gray wings and the females dark wings. Usually. In one population in western France, however, about 40 percent of the males have permanent female plumage, according to a report in Biology Letters, a publication of the Royal Society (that’s British, not French royalty).

Audrey Sternalski, and her colleagues who contributed to the report, uncovered the extent of this deception and also studied the hawk she-males. I didn’t just grab that word from the Internet, by the way. It came from a paper in Nature on garter snakes published quite a while ago. The authors referred to snakes, in which female mimicry is common, as she-males and he-males, so I figure those are scientific terms.

Many different creatures — particularly fish and reptiles and insects — engage in female mimicry. Garter snake males may emit chemicals called pheromones to suggest that they are female, but they do this for only a couple of days after they emerge from winter dens. Apparently, their goal is to get warm. Garter snakes form mating balls of 100 males or more around real females. She-males attract enough males to give them a snake-hug, and once they’ve warmed up, turn off the pheromones.

Among birds, only two species are known in which adult males may have permanent female plumage. The first one to be studied is the ruff, a shorebird that gathers in large groups during mating season. The ruff she-males sneak around, pretending to be female, avoiding competition with he-males and stealing kisses, or as scientists call them, extra-pair copulations. Humans do the same thing, at least in movies (Tony Curtis, “Some Like It Hot”) and short-lived television sitcoms featuring future megastars (Tom Hanks, “Bosom Buddies”).
438 2011-11-15 “We don’t need people coming down from Colorado to try to use us as a political experiment,” said Stan Flint, a lobbyist here in Jackson with the Southern Strategy Group, a public affairs firm that fought the initiative. “The people of Mississippi told them to go back where they came from.”

The amendment, all of 21 words long, defined “persons” as “every human being from the moment of fertilization, cloning or the functional equivalent thereof.” It would have banned all abortions, with no exceptions for rape, incest or saving the mother’s life. If it had passed, it would have been tied up quickly in court challenges. If it had finally taken effect, the details of what it controlled would have been decided by judges and state lawmakers. Both sides exploited its vague wording. Promoters reassured voters that abortion would simply be stopped, with little effect on other medical care. Opponents, including Planned Parenthood, warned of worst-case scenarios like coroner investigations of miscarriage and criminal charges against doctors for treating ectopic pregnancies, in which an embryo implants outside the uterus and can cause a hemorrhage unless it is removed.

A few months ago, polls showed “yes” votes for the amendment 30 points ahead. But uncertainty about the amendment’s reach, combined with opposition from citizen groups like Mrs. Breland’s and influential anti-abortion pastors helped reverse the momentum. Medical input was also crucial: The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists said the amendment jeopardized women’s health, and state doctors’ and nurses’ groups refused to support it.

The initiative was brought to Mississippi by Personhood USA, an anti-abortion group in Colorado that has tried and failed twice to pass a similar measure there. But it won some support here.

“It was about defining a person from the beginning of its biological development to its natural end and protecting it by law as any other innocent citizen would be protected,” said Dr. Freda Bush, an obstetrician in Jackson who supported the amendment.

Jennifer Mason, communications director for Personhood USA, attributed the defeat to “false information and scare tactics” by the opposition. “I think that now that we know their game plan, it will be easier to pass a future personhood amendment,” Ms. Mason said. She said the group was now circulating petitions needed for ballot initiatives in Montana, Florida and Oregon, and was planning campaigns in 11 other states.

The amendment’s supporters acknowledge that it would have banned not just abortions, but anything that could prevent a fertilized egg from implanting in the uterus, effectively barring some birth control methods, like IUDs, morning-after pills and a contraceptive pill called the “mini-pill” that contains only progestin.

Whether the amendment would also have banned standard birth control pills, which contain both estrogen and progestin, became a matter of debate. Those pills work mainly by preventing ovulation — a mechanism that is acceptable, supporters of the amendment say. However, the standard pills may also alter the uterine lining so that, in rare cases in which a woman on the pill ovulates and the egg is fertilized, it will not implant.

The possibility that the pills and other hormonal birth control can prevent implantation makes them “chemical abortifacients,” according to some anti-abortion groups.

But advocates for the amendment in Mississippi insisted that it would not have outlawed standard birth control pills. “There is no strong argument to suggest that combined-hormone birth control pills cause loss of pregnancies,” said Dr. Eric Webb, an obstetrician in Tupelo who supported personhood. Still, opponents said the amendment’s vagueness left the door open to a ban on the pill — in a state with the nation’s highest rate of teenage pregnancy and of unplanned pregnancy in women of all ages.

Dr. Paul D. Seago, a gynecologic oncologist in Jackson, said he worried that the amendment could have interfered with the treatment of women with rare cancers that can develop from fertilized eggs.

He said the law could also have posed problems for a pregnant woman with breast cancer. The usual treatments — surgery, chemotherapy and radiation — would endanger the fetus.

“Do you continue this pregnancy and let this cancer grow?” Dr. Seago said. “Or do you end it so the patient can get the best therapy for cancer? Does the mother have the right and ability to terminate? If this were to pass, no. What if the physician did prescribe or administer therapy and the pregnancy did die? Is that physician now guilty of murder?”

Ms. Mason said it was true that abortion would not have been allowed for women with cancer, but she said that doctors might have been able to perform a Caesarean section to save the baby and then treat the mother.

Other concerns cropped up. Dr. Seago said pathologists at his hospital asked whether miscarriages would have to be investigated by the coroner if the amendment passed.

“I’m not trying to be overly dramatic, but no one knows, if personhood were to pass, how that would be handled and who would, essentially, write the rules,” Dr. Seago said.

He and other doctors said they were also worried about whether they would be free to use surgery and drugs to treat ectopic pregnancies, which can be fatal for the woman.

Dr. Bush, a proponent of the measure, insisted that state laws protect doctors and women from prosecution in emergencies in which a pregnancy has to be ended to save the mother’s life. As for miscarriages, she said the police had no time for “witch hunts.”

But opponents said that when existing laws were written, a fertilized egg was not considered a person, and that changing the definition could have changed everything.

The amendment would have made it illegal to destroy embryos created by in vitro fertilization. But what worried parents like Mrs. Breland were suggestions by personhood advocates that embryo freezing should also be discouraged or stopped. Many infertility specialists say the ability to use frozen embryos greatly increases their odds of success and helps minimize the number of cycles women must go through to collect eggs.

Dr. Webb questioned the need for freezing, saying some clinics had good success rates without it. If personhood had passed, he said, fertility doctors themselves might have chosen to stop freezing embryos because in the event of a power failure they could have been held responsible for thousands of deaths.

Mrs. Breland was fearful of just such ideas, but she also knew that the amendment’s main opponents, Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union, “are not very well loved here,” she said. She took pains on her Web site to say that she had no connection with either group. “I wanted to give people a place where it was O.K. to say no, O.K. to support somebody saying no, and to give people factual information not from Planned Parenthood,” she said.

She has also kept the Web site and an associated parents’ group neutral on elective abortion. Some members call themselves pro-life, and others pro-choice. At times, the battle has turned ugly.

“I’ve had people posting pictures of dead babies on my Facebook wall,” Mrs. Breland said, showing a gory image on her computer screen. One of her children wandered by and she slammed the laptop shut, saying, with tears in her eyes, “I’m sorry, I don’t want my child to see that.” For weeks, a truck with Colorado plates and covered with huge pictures of bloody fetuses has been driving around Mississippi. It turned up near the statehouse in Jackson on Friday, with “Shame on Mississippi” painted on the side.

The election here is over, but similar battles loom in other states. Mrs. Breland is not taking down her Web site or giving up this fight.

“No, ma’am,” she said. “They’re not going away.”
439 2011-11-15 Scientists believe they have finally figured out how the mutation that causes sickle cell anemia also protects against fatal malaria.

The trait is common in West Africa, where malaria is endemic. It is also common in people of West African ancestry: one in 12 black Americans have it. If the mutated gene is inherited from both parents, it can cause sickle cell anemia, in which red blood cells are twisted into oxygen-starved crescents, causing excruciating pain and sometimes leading to death. Inheriting the trait from one parent usually does not cause problems, and makes it unlikely the carrier will die of malaria, even if infected.

According to a new study by scientists from Germany and Burkina Faso, published online in the journal Science, when malaria parasites invade a red blood cell, they start twisting a protein, actin, from the inside of the cell membrane. The parasites reshape the actin into scaffolding that lets them mount a protein-shuttling structure called Maurer’s cleft.

The cleft pushes other “sticky” proteins through the membrane, which make the infected blood cell adhere to the walls of capillaries in the brain or other organs. This prevents the cell from being carried to the spleen, which spots and destroys abnormal blood cells — including those with parasites.

The researchers took electron microscope pictures of frozen red cells showing that those with the sickle cell trait are able to resist “actin mining.” Without that, there was no clinging and no sticky proteins, and the blood cell would be swept away to its doom, along with its squatters.
440 2011-11-15 A new study of twins has found that trichloroethylene, or TCE, a solvent widely used in refrigerants and as a metal degreaser, is associated with an increased risk of Parkinson’s disease.

The analysis, published Monday in The Annals of Neurology, used data from an American military twin registry to examine 99 twin pairs, average age 65, in which only one sibling had Parkinson’s. A questionnaire was used to establish the twins’ history of jobs and hobbies that would have exposed them to TCE.

A twin who had worked with TCE was more than six times as likely to have Parkinson’s as one who had not, the researchers found. Twins exposed to two other solvents, perchloroethylene and carbon tetrachloride, substances used in dry cleaning and other industries, also had a slightly higher risk of developing Parkinson’s.

The authors acknowledge that it is difficult to collect accurate information on exposure retrospectively, that the study is small, and that it is limited to occupational exposure. Still, the lead author, Dr. Samuel M. Goldman of the Parkinson’s Institute, said that almost everyone is exposed to these substances. “These are common contaminants,” he said. “They are detected in blood, breast milk, water and food.”

According to Dr. Goldman and his colleagues, 50 million pounds of TCE are released annually into the environment in the United States.
441 2011-11-15 In major cases, the Supreme Court receives stacks of friend-of-the-court filings, called amicus briefs. It helps for them to have an angle: The justices may be more likely to read a brief from a group of scholars with specialized expertise than one from, say, a trade group. That, along with an understandable desire by some law professors to help shape the law, may explain the explosion in the filing of such briefs.

In the term that ended in June, the Supreme Court decided about 80 cases after briefing and argument. By Professor Fallon’s count, it received 56 briefs from groups of law professors.

In the term that ended in 1986, by contrast, the court decided twice as many cases, but it received only three such briefs.

Barry Friedman, the law professor at New York University who asked Professor Fallon to join the health care brief, said his colleague was “exactly right” as a general matter in his criticism of law professors’ briefs.

“I’m completely in sympathy with the broader argument he develops,” Professor Friedman said. “I get constant requests to write them and to sign them. There is often more attention to the issue than the analysis.”

But that was not the case with the health care brief, Professor Friedman said. “I actually happen to possess great expertise on this subject,” he said. “On his analysis of this particular issue, I think Dick is wrong.”

In his essay, Professor Fallon discussed a second brief he had declined to join. It concerned “a highly complex question of federal jurisdiction over a habeas corpus petition filed by a prison inmate” and was written by Michael C. Dorf, a law professor at Cornell.

Professor Fallon said the brief was in all likelihood “exemplary in all respects.” But he said he would not sign that one, either, on the refreshing ground that he had not done the required reading.

“Of the dozens of Supreme Court decisions to which the brief referred, there were some that I know well, and others I recall only hazily,” he wrote. “The brief also cited at least nine Supreme Court cases that I cannot remember ever having read at all, and 12 lower court decisions that I know I have never read.”

“It seems pertinent,” he added, “that my instinctive sympathy for the asserted position — and thus my impulse to want to sign — had ideologically based foundations.”

In an e-mail, Professor Dorf said that he, too, had long been suspicious that “law professor briefs were attempting to leverage scholarly reputations for political/ideological ends.”

“I prefer not to be asked to sign such briefs, but because I do sign some, I worry that not signing may be taken as disagreement,” he wrote. “Finding it harder than Dick does to say no, I cannot afford to be as scrupulous as he. I admire him on both counts, but I guess I’m just weak.”

Professor Dorf, who did sign the health care brief, set out his standards. He will join briefs for groups of law professors if he trusts their organizer or author, cares about the issue and agrees with “the overall thrust of the argument.”

This entire discussion may be, for want of a better word, academic. There is no particular reason to think that briefs from law professors have much impact.

In an interview in September, Justice John Paul Stevens, who retired last year, said that “normally I didn’t even read amicus briefs.”

“That was one of the tasks I assigned to my law clerks,” he said. “Their job was, if they thought an amicus brief really should be read, they’d pull them out for me and then I’d look at them.”

Justice Antonin Scalia said almost the same thing last month at the Chicago-Kent College of Law, but more colorfully. “I do not read all amicus briefs,” he said, according to notes of the remarks taken by Abdon M. Pallasch of The Chicago Sun-Times. “My law clerks read all amicus briefs.”

“If there’s one that has a hidden truffle in there somewhere,” he said, “they call it to my attention.”

When the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the health care law last week, it did not cite the brief that Professors Friedman and Dorf had submitted. But it did cite a scholarly article published in August in The California Law Review — by Professor Fallon.
442 2011-11-15 The cost-cutting at Goldman Sachs is now reaching the top ranks of the firm.       An unusually high number of partner retirements have been announced internally at the Wall Street bank in recent weeks, according to people who were briefed on the ...
443 2011-11-16 Decide.com now has a mobile app for the iPhone that has the price predicting abilities of the Web site and a few other features that might make buying electronics a little more reassuring....
444 2011-11-16 Decide.com now has a mobile app for the iPhone that has the price predicting abilities of the Web site and a few other features that might make buying electronics a little more reassuring....
445 2011-11-16 Visa announced plans for a product aimed at letting cellphone users in less developed nations buy goods and pay bills using their phones. The service will be available through a simple application or text messaging,...
446 2011-11-16 Visa announced plans for a product aimed at letting cellphone users in less developed nations buy goods and pay bills using their phones. The service will be available through a simple application or text messaging,...
447 2011-11-16 Authorities are growing more concerned about what went wrong at MF Global as they comb through some 38,000 customer accounts....
448 2011-11-16 Authorities are growing more concerned about what went wrong at MF Global as they comb through some 38,000 customer accounts....
449 2011-11-16 The group claims to balance the budget in four years, reduce federal spending by $9.7 trillion over the next 10 years and make the Bush-era tax cuts permanent....
450 2011-11-16 The group claims to balance the budget in four years, reduce federal spending by $9.7 trillion over the next 10 years and make the Bush-era tax cuts permanent....
451 2011-11-16 The auto parts maker's initial public offering was priced at the low end of the company's projected range of $22 to $24....
452 2011-11-16 The auto parts maker's initial public offering was priced at the low end of the company's projected range of $22 to $24....
453 2011-11-16 Angie's List, a Web site of reviews for local services like home repair and catering, priced shares for its initial public offering at $13 per share, at the top end of its expected range....
454 2011-11-16 Angie's List, a Web site of reviews for local services like home repair and catering, priced shares for its initial public offering at $13 per share, at the top end of its expected range....
455 2011-11-16 Google Music will sell individual tracks as well as full albums, letting customers store the files in "cloud" accounts. Customers will be allowed to share music by offering friends one free chance to listen to any purchased track....
456 2011-11-16 Google Music will sell individual tracks as well as full albums, letting customers store the files in "cloud" accounts. Customers will be allowed to share music by offering friends one free chance to listen to any purchased track....
457 2011-11-16 A comment to a French Web site indicates that a Windows 8 tablet from Nokia will be coming this June. But Microsoft's delay in attacking the mobile business market has cost it revenue and market share. All this raises the question: Why must iOS an...
458 2011-11-16 The Los Angeles Dodgers filed suit against Prime Ticket in a television rights fight....
459 2011-11-16 The Los Angeles Dodgers filed suit against Prime Ticket in a television rights fight....
460 2011-11-16 Several Occupy Seattle protesters, including an 84-year-old woman, were doused with pepper spray by the police on Tuesday night....
461 2011-11-16 Several Occupy Seattle protesters, including an 84-year-old woman, were doused with pepper spray by the police on Tuesday night....
462 2011-11-16 The city and Zuccotti Park's owners have been enforcing the park rules, but there are still plenty of questions about them....
463 2011-11-16 The city and Zuccotti Park's owners have been enforcing the park rules, but there are still plenty of questions about them....
464 2011-11-16 The agent representing center fielder Yoennis Cespedes, who is still adjusting to life outside Cuba, called him major league ready....
465 2011-11-16 The agent representing center fielder Yoennis Cespedes, who is still adjusting to life outside Cuba, called him major league ready....
466 2011-11-16 The price represented a significant drop from the electric-vehicle start-up's initial estimates, which came in around $45,000....
467 2011-11-16 The price represented a significant drop from the electric-vehicle start-up's initial estimates, which came in around $45,000....
468 2011-11-16 "The Business of Being Born" and its sequel are worth seeing for pregnant women. But take their advice - and that of film critics reviewing them - with a bucket of salt....
469 2011-11-16 "The Business of Being Born" and its sequel are worth seeing for pregnant women. But take their advice - and that of film critics reviewing them - with a bucket of salt....
470 2011-11-16 A proposal to set up a claims process for customers of MF Global is the focus of a hearing on Wednesday at the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan. DealBook is proving live coverage of the proceedings beginning at 3:30 p.m....
471 2011-11-16 A proposal to set up a claims process for customers of MF Global is the focus of a hearing on Wednesday at the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan. DealBook is proving live coverage of the proceedings beginning at 3:30 p.m....
472 2011-11-16 A comment to a French Web site indicates that a Windows 8 tablet from Nokia will be coming this June. But Microsoft's delay in attacking the mobile business market has cost it revenue and market share. All this raises the question: Why must iOS an...
473 2011-11-16 Regulators are replacing an opaque system prone to failure with a huge, Rube Goldberg-like system that may reduce global financial risk. Or it may not. Nobody knows....
474 2011-11-16 Regulators are replacing an opaque system prone to failure with a huge, Rube Goldberg-like system that may reduce global financial risk. Or it may not. Nobody knows....
475 2011-11-16 The letter, from 1960, invites and unnamed drummer to an audition....
476 2011-11-16 The letter, from 1960, invites and unnamed drummer to an audition....
477 2011-11-16 Pose your retirement questions to a financial planner for free today on the Web....
478 2011-11-16 Pose your retirement questions to a financial planner for free today on the Web....
479 2011-11-16 Looking for a unique gift to bring home from Rome? Don't waste time in souvenir shops. Instead, the city's markets are a great way to get some of that holiday shopping done early....
480 2011-11-16 Looking for a unique gift to bring home from Rome? Don't waste time in souvenir shops. Instead, the city's markets are a great way to get some of that holiday shopping done early....
481 2011-11-16 A group of Tibetan fans of Bollywood films said they were disappointed over the blurring of images in the movie....
482 2011-11-16 A group of Tibetan fans of Bollywood films said they were disappointed over the blurring of images in the movie....
483 2011-11-16 A federal judge in Detroit dismissed a lawsuit seeking $2.5 million from the former N.B.A. star Allen Iverson over a 2009 bar fight. Judge Nancy Edmunds found no evidence that Iverson punched a man or that the person who did strike him was linked to Iverson.
484 2011-11-16 INDIAN WELLS, Calif. (AP) — Cargill MacMillan Jr., the multibillionaire heir to the Cargill agribusiness fortune, died on Monday at his home here. He was 84.

His death, of natural causes, was confirmed by the Riverside County sheriff’s office.

Mr. MacMillan was worth an estimated $2.6 billion based on his share in the family company, according to Forbes magazine, which placed him and other relatives on its list of the 400 richest Americans.

The family, which has a reputation for secrecy, holds 88 percent of the conglomerate Cargill, which is based in Wayzata, Minn. Founded in 1865, the company has international interests that include cocoa plantations, livestock, steel mills and commodities trading.

It is one of the largest private companies in the world, with nearly $119.5 billion in revenue and 138,000 employees in 63 countries.

Mr. MacMillan was a longtime board member. He had no day-to-day role in the company.

He and his wife, Donna, moved from Minnesota to Indian Wells in 1990. They were philanthropists, donating a $20 million art collection to the Palm Springs Art Museum, The Desert Sun reported.

He is survived by his wife and four children.
485 2011-11-16 In Fort Greene, , Greenlight Bookstore opened in 2009 and reported sales of more than $1 million in its first year. The Boswell Book Company in was founded two years ago and has been profitable both years, its owner said.

But there are plenty of headlines chronicling the woes of struggling independents. In , St. Mark’s Bookshop in the East Village has been teetering for months, saved by a last-minute rent discount from the landlord. The owner of RiverRun Bookstore in , N.H., said this month that he needed to raise more than $100,000 to save it. More than 150 concerned people packed the store last week to discuss its fate. , N.Y., residents helped keep the treasured Buffalo Street Books in business by raising more than $250,000 and reopening the store as a co-op.

A similar outrage swept across Nashville late last year when the owners of , founded in 1980, said that they intended to close the city’s last independent bookstore that did not primarily sell used, specialty or religious books. ( has two stores in the suburbs, and recently opened a college bookstore on the edge of the Vanderbilt campus.)

“It was a civic tragedy,” said Adam Ross, a Nashville writer whose novel, “Mr. Peanut,” was published last year. “The Nashville literary community went into a sort of Code Red situation.”

Cultural leaders convened meetings in the public library to discuss who could step in and open a new bookstore. One idea, to start a co-op requiring small of $1,000, never got off the ground.

“People were greeting each other in grocery stores, at holiday parties, wringing our hands,” said Beth Alexander, the president of the board at the Nashville Public Library Foundation, the private fund-raising arm of the library. “We’re home to two dozen universities. We need to have a bookstore other than a campus bookstore, and people were looking at each other and saying, ‘We’re very concerned about this.’ ”

Ms. Patchett, meanwhile, hatched a plan of her own. She had money, connections and countless time spent on book tours. Soon she began posing the question to friends: What if she started a bookstore?

In April, she met with Karen Hayes, a publishing veteran who had worked at the Ingram Book Company, a major book wholesaler, and at , where she was a sales representative.

They decided to become business partners and co-owners. Ms. Patchett, who has a comfortable income (her last book, reached No. 3 on the hardcover fiction best-seller list), promised $300,000 as an initial investment. They decided to name the store Parnassus after the sacred site in that is associated with poetry, song and knowledge.

Then she left on a 15-city book tour in June, and promptly began doing research. “I would walk into these stores,” she said, “and the first thing I would say is: ‘How many square feet do you have? How many employees do you have? What are your hours?’ ”

Daniel Goldin, the owner of the Boswell Book Company, lavished her with advice over dinner at Beans and Barley, a health-food cafe on the city’s East Side. Put the children’s section as far away from the front door as possible. Hang signs from the ceiling, and customers will buy whatever is advertised on them. And make your store comforting and inclusive, smart but not snobby.

“The world has changed so much — it’s sort of everybody against Amazon,” Mr. Goldin said last week. “The customer relationship is way more important than it used to be.”

Parnassus, like hundreds of other independents across the country, will also sell e-books through , to lure the many customers who have shifted to Nooks, Kindles and iPads.

Stopping by Parnassus on a recent chilly afternoon, days away from its opening, Ms. Patchett inspected the rows of bookshelves in blond wood (salvaged from a local Borders that went out of business), gingerly stepped around construction workers and pointed out where a bar, a cash register and paperback tables would go.

Ms. Patchett said that she is counting on her store to drive home a sharp, tough-love message to book lovers: buy books at independent stores, or the stores will go away.

“This is not a showroom, this is not where you come in to scan your barcode,” she said. “If you like this thing, it’s your responsibility to keep this thing alive.”
486 2011-11-16 A recipe for braised carrots with cumin and red pepper....
487 2011-11-16 A recipe for cabbage with apples, onions and caraway....
488 2011-11-16 “The revenue did come in a bit lighter than expected,” Brian T. Gladden, its chief financial officer, said in an interview. Consumer sales in developed countries and slow orders from the federal government hurt demand last quarter, he said.

Revenue will increase 1 percent to 5 percent this fiscal year, which ends in January, Dell said. Analysts had predicted sales growth of 2 percent.

Dell’s revenue from selling products to the public sector was down 2 percent from a year ago, to $4.4 billion. That figure included an increase in services revenue of 7 percent. Dell’s sales to consumers fell 6 percent over the same period, to $2.8 billion. Operating income in that segment was $76 million, or 2.7 percent of revenue.

International revenue outside of Canada, Western Europe and Japan rose 11 percent in the third quarter and is up 14 percent for the fiscal year, Dell said.

The company plans to keep making acquisitions to expand in hardware and software for corporate and government data centers, Michael S. Dell, its chief executive, said at a company conference last month. The diversification beyond desktop and laptop computers comes as PC sales ebb. IDC, a market research firm, cut its shipment forecast on Nov. 10, citing the Thailand flooding.

Rising waters have swamped industrial parks where companies like Western Digital and Toshiba make about a quarter of the world’s disk drives. The flood has caused drive prices to increase by $10 to $25, Stephen J. Luczo, the chief of Seagate Technology, said in a interview this month.

While the flooding may result in higher component prices, that could be offset by lower prices for other products, Mr. Gladden said. The company also has loaded up on disk-drive inventory.

“It’s still a pretty fluid situation,” he said.

The flooding may cause disk costs to climb, even if Dell does not have shortages, said Brian Marshall, an analyst at ISI Group in San Francisco. “I don’t think they’re going to have problems getting supply,” he said. “I do think they’ll have problems with pricing.”

While the flooding may result in higher disk-drive costs, lower memory-chip prices are helping PC makers rein in expenses, said Chris Whitmore, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in San Francisco.

“Memory pricing has just been fantastic for the box makers,” said Mr. Whitmore.

Dell fell 13 cents in after-hours trading, after the earnings report came out. Its stock closed up 2 percent at $15.63 in regular trading.
489 2011-11-16 Ms. Ephron may be reassured to learn that the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law Section 601 requires that if a driver hits a dog or a cat, the driver must render aid and notify a police officer if the owner is not present. Section 602 allows a police officer to arrest a violator, even if the hit and run was not committed in his presence.

Thus, while Ms. Ephron correctly notes that hitting a dog (or a cat) is not a crime, the failure to stop and help and/or report it is a violation punishable by a fine up to $100.
490 2011-11-16 SAN FRANCISCO — Apple on Tuesday named a new board chairman, in another signal that the technology giant would not be run the same way as it was under its co-founder, Steven P. Jobs.

Apple also elected to its board Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company. That move comes at a time when the company is strengthening its connections to the entertainment business.

Apple said Arthur D. Levinson, the chairman of Genentech who has been on the Apple board since 2000, would become its nonexecutive chairman. The elevation of Mr. Levinson, one of the longest-serving Apple board members, could provide some continuity in the senior leadership of Apple as it seeks to maintain its success without Mr. Jobs, who died in October of cancer.

Apple did not have an official chairman after Mr. Jobs returned to the company in the late 1990s as chief executive. But Mr. Jobs was widely viewed as having all the authority and influence of someone with that title. Mr. Jobs took the title of chairman only after resigning as chief executive in late August, holding the position for the few weeks before his death.

By naming Mr. Levinson chairman, and not giving the title to Apple’s new chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, Apple is moving more into line with corporate governance practices at other companies, experts in the field said. Dividing the duties of chairman and chief executive is believed to provide more independent oversight of a company than if one individual holds both titles.
491 2011-11-16 Urban Meyer met with Arizona’s athletic director, Greg Byrne, in Miami early last week to discuss the Wildcats’ job, according to a person with knowledge of the meeting, but ultimately decided he was not interested. The person said that Meyer, who has expressed his desire to return to coaching, was intrigued but informed Byrne in a telephone call Monday night that he was not going to pursue the job.

Where Meyer will end up coaching next season is one of the more intriguing questions in college football. Meyer, who left Florida after last season, is considered the leading candidate for the head coaching positions at Ohio State and Penn State, which are both expected to be open after this year. Ohio State’s Luke Fickell and the interim Penn State coach Tom Bradley are not expected to keep their jobs after inheriting them amid turmoil. (Fittingly, Penn State plays at Ohio State this weekend.)

Meyer won two national championships at Florida and compiled a 65-15 record in six years with the Gators before stepping down last year to spend more time with his family. He has worked as a commentator for ESPN this season.

The Arizona job has been open since early October when Byrne fired Mike Stoops after a 1-5 start. Tim Kish has been the interim head coach since. The possible candidates to replace Stoops at Arizona include the former Oregon coach Mike Bellotti, the former Texas Tech coach Mike Leach, the former Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez and Southern Mississippi Coach Larry Fedora.
492 2011-11-16 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
493 2011-11-16 The baseline plan included in the report does not foresee the F.H.A.’s going into the red. It presumes that home prices will stabilize in coming months and start to rise in 2012. In that case, the agency’s capital ratio will increase to 1 percent in 2012 and 2 percent, the legal minimum, in 2014.

But if housing prices decline, losses from an enormous cohort of loans, most originated between 2006 and 2009, could subsume the agency’s reserves. The audit contends that “significant declines of home prices” in fiscal year 2012 “would create a situation in which the current portfolio would require additional support” from the Treasury Department. In the worst case provided in the report, housing prices would continue to decline through 2014 and the agency would require a total of $43.2 billion from the Treasury. (Congress would not need to approve these funds.)

Ms. Galante said that before the agency got to that point, it would consider several measures, including raising the F.H.A. insurance premiums borrowers pay.

Traditionally, the F.H.A. has helped borrowing by first-time home buyers or those with low to moderate income. When the housing bust hit, the agency greatly expanded its purview, and the value of its loan portfolio more than tripled. In 2006, the F.H.A. backed about 5 percent of mortgages. In 2010, it insured one-third.

The F.H.A. provides lenders with a guarantee if mortgages meet certain underwriting criteria. It finances itself by charging borrowers a premium that offsets the cost of payouts on defaulting loans.

Numerous independent reports in the last three years have predicted the agency’s insolvency. Last week, for instance, the American Enterprise Institute, a policy research organization, released a study by Joseph Gyourko, a professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, stating that the agency was underestimating its future losses by “tens of billions” and arguing that “the recapitalization required will be at least $50 billion, and likely much more.”

“If the economy and housing markets deteriorate unexpectedly, we need to be ready to infuse even more capital” into the reserve account, Mr. Gyourko wrote, estimating that the F.H.A. may ultimately need as much as $100 billion.

Many housing experts have called for additional Congressional oversight of the agency, given the possibility of a bailout. “Along with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the F.H.A. is the third leg of the government stool supporting the entire housing market,” said Christopher Papagianis, managing director of Economics21, a research organization. “What is embarrassing for Congress is that, unlike Fannie and Freddie, the F.H.A. is directly under their purview. It’s always been a government agency, subject to hearings and oversight. They clearly haven’t been minding the store, given this report.”

Other housing experts caution that the F.H.A.’s insolvency is not a foregone conclusion. “Whether or not they are adequately capitalized depends on their projections,” says Ann B. Schnare, an independent housing consultant, who has studied F.H.A. solvency. “But they have been over-optimistic about their future book for three or four years. Every year, it’s like, ‘We’re losing on this end, but we’re going to make it up going forward!’ ”

Ms. Schnare added: “They are doing very high loan-to-value loans in a market that is extremely fragile. People are entering the program without a lot of equity. They’re skating on thin ice.”

The F.H.A. report comes as lawmakers are considering raising the maximum loan amount that the agency can guarantee, possibly exposing the agency to more risk. On Oct. 1, the ceiling dropped to $625,500, from $729,750, in some high-cost areas like the New York metropolitan area. However, a bill moving through Congress would return the ceiling to the higher level.
494 2011-11-16 BAGHDAD — Iraq’s cabinet approved a multibillion-dollar contract on Tuesday for Royal Dutch Shell, the Anglo-Dutch energy giant, to collect the vast amount of natural gas emitted, and currently burned off, as oil is pumped to the surface at three major oil fields in the south.

The project, which will eventually greatly reduce Iraq’s greenhouse gas emissions, is intended to bring modern methods of managing oil fields to an industry frozen in time by sanctions and the war. In addition, it strengthens Shell’s foothold at a time when international petroleum companies are vying for advantage in one of the few regions of the world where easily accessible, on-land fields are opening to new investment.

But it also strikes a political nerve. Some members of the Iraqi Parliament protested the deal as overly generous to Shell and its Japanese partner, Mitsubishi, though the investment — $17 billion over 25 years to build pipes and filters to collect the gas — will be funneled through a newly created joint venture owned 51 percent by an Iraqi state company, the South Gas Company.

Ali al-Dabbagh, a government’s spokesman, said that Shell and Mitsubishi’s project involved the fields at Rumaila, West Qurna, and Zubair, which are operated by consortiums led by BP, Exxon, Lukoil of Russia and Eni of Italy. Some 700 million cubic feet of “associate gas” is burned off, or flared, annually at the three fields.

The Shell project is one of several creating shared infrastructure in the south for companies that won technical service contracts in 2009, among the first awarded for Iraq’s oil fields since the fall of the government of Saddam Hussein in 2003. For instance, ExxonMobil is building a plant to process water for injecting into the fields, something all the companies will need to pump more oil.

Shell said it would sell the gas to electrical utilities in Iraq, but that it may also eventually export some.
495 2011-11-16 One reason for the secrecy was a lesson learned by the city. On Oct. 14, officials wanted to clear the park, but then backed off as hundreds of protesters streamed in ahead of time after hearing of the plans.

The operation on Tuesday involved officers from various police units, including boroughwide task forces — scores of mobile officers who are usually used to flood high-crime neighborhoods.

Mr. Kelly said many people, almost like commuters, had been coming and going from the park during the day, making 1 a.m. a good time to move in. “It was appropriate to do it when the smallest number of people were in the park,” he said.

Emergency Service Unit trucks with klieg lights and loudspeakers gathered at Pike Slip and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, near the Manhattan Bridge, before moving out. The lights and prerecorded messages booming from the loudspeakers seemed to cow many protesters. As the community affairs officers moved into the park in their light-blue windbreakers, many protesters simply gathered their belongings and left.

No tents were touched until 1:45 a.m., the police said, giving the protesters time to gather their belongings. Other teams of officers were seen gathering on the perimeter to move in if arrests were needed in the park.

Reporters in the park were forced to leave. Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, said it was for their safety. But many journalists said that they had been prevented from seeing the police take action in the park, and that they had been roughly handled by officers. Mr. Browne said television camera trucks on Church Street, along the park’s western border, were able to capture images.

As the police moved west through the dense tangle of protesters’ personal belongings, including luggage and plastic lawn and leaf bags stuffed with clothing, crews from the Sanitation Department followed, scooping up what was left behind.

Some protesters who refused to move were dragged out, the images appearing on the Internet soon after. A core group of protesters took up positions close to the encampment’s kitchen area, near the center of the park. Some made a barrier, and the police moved in to methodically arrest them.

About 10 people in the epicenter of the encampment locked themselves together by their arms. And two people chained themselves to trees, Mr. Kelly said. Emergency service officers were called in to cut the locks.

No arrests were made in the park until about 3:30 a.m., Mr. Kelly said. The clearing operation was complete about 75 minutes later, the police said.

Mr. Browne said about 142 people were arrested in the park. Most of the arrests were for “disorderly conduct and resisting arrest,” he said. The highest-ranking officer on the scene was Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department, the top uniformed officer in the department. Phil T. Pulaski, the department’s chief of detectives, was also there. Mr. Kelly, while present, was “not directing operations,” Mr. Browne said.

A second group of officers waited along the eastern side of Broadway, between Liberty and Cedar Streets, in case they had to move in.

Barricades were set up at Cortlandt Street, a block north of the park, and at Pine Street, a block south. From those positions, the police were seen expanding the perimeter even farther outward from Zuccotti Park. At one point, several officers, many with shields, were seen pushing people farther out. About 28 people were on the northern perimeter.

Some of the rowdiest action of the night took place south of the park. Around 5 a.m., south of Pine Street, one protester jumped on the hood of a police car, and others were seen releasing the air from the tires of a police van. At one point, a piece of plywood came flying from the crowd. In the end, one officer and one protester were hospitalized.
496 2011-11-16 “You never heard those stats before,” said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. “The reason why is they struggled for decades, and finally they have a story to tell in the enterprise.”

Among the big customers Apple has won recently is the home improvement retailer Lowe’s, which says it bought about 42,000 iPhones to be used by employees on store floors. Instead of having to find a computer, the employees can use the devices in store aisles to check inventory, pull up how-to videos and help customers estimate costs for painting, flooring and other projects.

Airlines have begun to use iPads to replace printed aircraft flight manuals, navigation charts and other material that pilots are required to bring on board. The binders holding those manuals typically had to be popped open every few weeks by pilots so they could replace pages with updated information. With iPads, the updating occurs electronically.

All of Alaska Airlines’ more than 1,400 pilots now have iPads, and and , which have merged, started giving iPads to all 11,000 of their pilots in August.

“We’ve shown we can retrieve an electronic page faster than we can retrieve a printed manual,” said Capt. Joe Burns, a United pilot and managing director of technology and flight tests for the airline.

The iPad, in some cases, is proving to be an attractive substitute for laptops in situations where portability and speedy access to information matters. Technicians for Siemens Energy, for example, routinely have to scale 300-foot towers to service , sometimes in blistering heat in places like West Texas. Some of the technicians have been using laptops to read manuals and run through checklists when they’re doing this work, but the devices are too bulky and take too long to boot up, said Tim Holt, chief executive of Service Renewables for Siemens Energy.

Now the company is outfitting its wind service technicians with iPads, which are light, start instantly and have cameras that let workers send pictures to a technical support department if they need help troubleshooting an issue. About 350 technicians have the device already; within five years, about 5,000 should have it, Mr. Holt said.

Information technology departments, though, may find working with Apple a challenge. Historically among I.T. managers, Apple Macs were largely shunned as too expensive, and the company was viewed as not serious about making the computers blend well in corporate environments.

Mr. Holt said there was “pushback” initially from the central I.T. department of Siemens in about the prospect of using iPads as part of its technology arsenal.

Also, although Apple’s secrecy about where its products are headed may help it make a big marketing splash in the consumer market, corporate I.T. departments like to know more so they can budget for big new technology .

“Traditionally, you sit down with a vendor and they show you a five- and 10-year road map,” said Todd Schofield, global head of the enterprise mobility group for Standard Chartered Bank. “With Apple, they don’t do that. You don’t know what’s coming next week, never mind two years.”

Still, Standard Chartered has started to supply as many as 11,000 iPhones to employees, moving workers off BlackBerrys. The reason? It was attracted by the ability to create apps for the iPhone — for example, ones that allow its bankers to view and approve customers’ stock and foreign currency transactions while on the go.

One factor working in Apple’s favor is so-called consumerization, a broader trend in which companies become more responsive to consumer technologies like social media. Mr. Schofield said he had just gotten used to Apple’s way of doing business. “They’re not an enterprise company and they’re up front about that,” he said.

For many years, the view that Apple did not care about serving businesses was reinforced by the outspoken Mr. Jobs, who died in October. On the rare occasions when he did meet with corporate customers, Apple executives often braced themselves for the awkward moments that occurred because of Mr. Jobs’s tendency to speak his mind, according to two persons who used to work in business sales at Apple and declined to be named to avoid inciting their former employer.

One of those persons recalled a meeting at Apple headquarters in 2007, after the iPhone had been announced, where Mr. Jobs met with the head of the health care division of a major conglomerate. The executive told Mr. Jobs his company would adopt the iPhone if Apple would add a few features to make it work better in corporate environments. Mr. Jobs bridled at the suggestion, telling the executive how sales of the BlackBerry — then the hottest business-oriented mobile phone on the market — were dwarfed by the number of overall cellphones sold.

“Which market would you build for?” he asked sarcastically, according to the former Apple employee.

The former Apple employees said Mr. Cook, who was Apple’s chief operating officer before becoming chief executive, met more frequently with corporate customers and seemed to appreciate their needs, even if he did not deviate from Mr. Jobs’s views about making consumers the priority when making Apple products. “Tim was always very good with customers,” one of those employees said.

And despite the rebuff by Mr. Jobs to the health care executive, Apple ended up adding a number of business-friendly features — like better support for Exchange, a common e-mail system inside companies — to a later software update for the iPhone.
497 2011-11-16 “The concern is spilling over to the other candidates that could be next for the domino effect behind Italy,” said Millan Mulraine, an interest rate strategist at TD Securities in New York. “The ubiquitous nature of the increase in yields suggests that the problem is spreading well beyond the troubled peripheral countries.”

In recent weeks, the European Central Bank has been regularly buying government bonds to try to push down interest rates. But Mr. Mulraine said the bank bought a smaller amount than usual on Tuesday.

Without the central bank’s usual presence in the markets, bond prices fell and yields rose, and investors appeared to worry that a widening circle of European nations could be dragged into the Continent’s problems.

“While France has for weeks been under some market pressure, with fears over the country’s AAA-rating to the fore, the likes of the Netherlands and Finland had proved immune,” analysts at Daiwa wrote in a research note. “That no longer appears to be the case.”

Yields jumped a quarter of a percentage point in Spain, to nearly 6.35 percent, and about the same in France, to nearly 3.7 percent. They spiked even more in Italy and crossed the 7 percent level, which economists consider unsustainable. The gap between those rates and Germany’s 1.8 percent yield also widened to levels that some analysts saw as alarming.

Analysts said they expected the central bank to return to the markets soon, and with a much more aggressive program of bond buying, to put a ceiling on rates.

Compounding euro zone anxieties was a report Tuesday that gross domestic product for the region barely grew 0.2 percent from July through September, compared with the previous three months. That was the same growth rate as in the previous quarter.

In contrast, the United States economy grew by 0.6 percent in the third quarter from the second, while the Japanese economy grew 1.5 percent.

The data from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, did nothing to alter a consensus among economists that euro area output had already begun to decline since September.

Anxiety about the sovereign debt crisis has led businesses and consumers to cut spending, and government austerity programs have contributed to deep recessions in countries like Greece and Portugal.

Economists define a recession as at least two consecutive quarters of declining output.

The third-quarter figures “have little bearing on the bigger question — namely how is the sovereign debt crisis going to be resolved and at what collateral damage to the real economy?” Jens Sondergaard, senior economist for Europe at Nomura, said in a note to clients.

The huge risk facing Europe is that debt problems and slower growth will create a downward spiral that policy makers may not be able to stop.

If economies slow, then government tax revenue will decline. That, along with higher borrowing costs, would increase fears that countries like Italy may not be able to service their debt. In that cycle, confidence and growth suffer further.

François Cabau, an analyst at Barclays Capital, said in a note Tuesday that if business confidence continued to fall during the rest of 2011, the downturn “could prove to be larger than we currently expect, depressing private domestic demand even further.”

Ample data has pointed to an impending slowdown in the euro area, including reports last week of declines in industrial production and retail sales.

The European Commission, citing painful budget-balancing measures that will weigh on output, cut its growth forecast last week for the 17 euro zone nations, to 0.5 percent in 2012, and predicted that Greece’s recession would deepen.

But even that gloomy forecast is starting to seem too optimistic.

Germany, the largest economy in Europe, has been bucking the downward trend so far. Its economy grew by 0.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with 0.3 percent in the second, according to the data released Tuesday.

French growth continued to hold up in the third quarter, but that is not expected to last, either.

Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said last Thursday that the European Union’s economic recovery had “now come to a standstill, and there is a risk of a new recession.”
498 2011-11-16 There was no plan for how to keep the park occupied throughout the night in the face of the new regulations, and many people made arrangements for overnight shelter. Some people offered couches to one another, and two Manhattan churches opened their doors and said protesters could sleep there.

Shortly after midnight, about a hundred people remained at the park, and some said they were prepared to stay awake through dawn.

“If they are letting us stay here, I am staying up all night,” said McCarthy, 22.

But absent from the park on Tuesday night were some of the Occupy movement’s core members.

“Our actual organization is taking the night off,” said Justin Stone Diaz, 38, a member of the information group. “We’re trying to give our people a break.”

A surprise police raid that began at about 1 a.m. Tuesday had emptied the park. Officers not only removed the protesters who had camped there for almost two months, but they also removed their tents, tarps and belongings. As the morning unfolded, Mayor defended the decision to clear the park, saying “health and safety conditions became intolerable.” He also told a City Hall news conference that in approving the police operation, he had had to balance concerns about free speech against concerns about what had been happening in the park.

“New York City is the city where you can come and express yourself,” the mayor said. “What was happening in Zuccotti Park was not that.” He said the protesters had taken over the park, “making it unavailable to anyone else.”

Mr. Bloomberg said the city had planned to reopen the park on Tuesday morning after the protesters’ tents and tarps had been removed and the stone steps had been cleaned. He said the police had already let about 50 protesters back in when officials received word of a temporary restraining order sought by lawyers for the protesters. The police closed the park again while a judge heard arguments in State Supreme Court.

The judge, Justice Michael D. Stallman, handed down his decision late Tuesday afternoon, ruling for the city and saying the protesters could go into Zuccotti Park but could not take their tents and sleeping bags. Justice Stallman said that the demonstrators “have not demonstrated that they have a First Amendment right to remain in Zuccotti Park, along with their tents, structures, generators and other installations” — to the exclusion of the landlord or “others who might wish to use the space safely.”

The mayor’s comments at a City Hall news conference came about seven hours after hundreds of police officers moved in to clear the park, after warning that the nearly two-month-old camp would be “cleared and restored” but that demonstrators who did not leave would face arrest. The protesters, about 200 of whom have been staying in the park overnight, initially resisted with chants of “Whose park? Our park!”

The police commissioner, , said that nearly 200 people had been arrested, 142 in the park and 50 to 60 in the streets nearby. Most were held on charges of disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, among them City Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez, a Democrat who represents northern Manhattan. He was with a group near the intersection of Broadway and Vesey Street that was trying to link up with the protesters in the park. The group tried to push through a line of officers trying to prevent people from reaching the park.

Later in the day, the police cleared a lot at Canal Street, about a mile away, where some of the protesters had gone after the sweep. About two dozen people were arrested there after protesters snipped a chain-link fence with bolt cutters. At least four journalists who trailed the protesters as they went through the opening in the fence were also led out in handcuffs, including a reporter and photographer for The Associated Press and a reporter from The Daily News.

The operation in and around the park was a blow to the Occupy Wall Street movement, which saw the park as its spiritual heart. The sweep was intended to empty the birthplace of a protest movement that has inspired hundreds of tent cities from coast to coast. Participants criticize a financial system that they say favors the rich and corporations at the expense of ordinary citizens. On Monday, hundreds of police officers raided the main encampment in , Calif., arresting 33 people. Protesters returned later in the day. But the Oakland police said no one would be allowed to sleep there anymore, and promised to clear a second camp nearby.

The police action was quickly challenged as lawyers for the protesters obtained a temporary restraining order barring the city and the park’s private landlord from evicting protesters or removing their belongings. That left the protesters in a kind of limbo as they waited for Justice Stallman to issue his ruling.

Occupy Wall Street’s legal team had spent most of the day trying to reverse the reasoning the city used as the legal underpinning for the sweep. The protesters’ lawyers said after Justice Stallman issued the decision that their clients would continue their struggle.

“This has not stopped the movement,” said Yetta Kurland, one of the lawyers for the protesters. “Win, lose or draw, the 99 percent will continue to show up, continue to express themselves.”

The mayor, at his news conference in the morning, read a statement he had issued around 6 a.m. explaining the reasoning behind the sweep. “The law that created Zuccotti Park required that it be open for the public to enjoy for passive recreation 24 hours a day,” the mayor said in the statement. “Ever since the occupation began, that law has not been complied with” because the protesters had taken over the park. “I have become increasingly concerned — as had the park’s owner, — that the occupation was coming to pose a health and hazard to the protesters and to the surrounding community,” Mr. Bloomberg said. He added that on Monday, Brookfield asked the city to assist in enforcing the no sleeping and camping rules.

“But make no mistake,” the mayor said, “the final decision to act was mine and mine alone.”

Some of the displaced protesters regrouped a few blocks away at Foley Square, with the row of courthouses on Centre Street as a backdrop, and swapped stories of their confrontations with the police as they talked about what to do next.

One protester, Nate Barchus, 23, said the eviction from Zuccotti Park was likely to galvanize supporters, particularly because a series of gatherings had already been planned for Thursday, the protest’s two-month anniversary.

“This,” he said, referring to the early morning sweep, “reminds everyone who was occupying exactly why they were occupying.”

The midday arrests at the Canal Street lot unfolded next to a triangular space known as Duarte Square, for the first president of the , Juan Pablo Duarte. The city owns slightly less than half an acre of land there, on the eastern edge of the square. The western section is owned by Trinity Church, a major landowner downtown, and had been fenced off for the winter recently after an art installation was dismantled.

With dozens of police officers watching, protesters climbed to the top of the plywood fence and held a general-assembly-style discussion on whether to “liberate another piece of property,” and about an hour later — after some protesters said they had tried to obtain permission to enter the church’s lot — two protesters dressed in black appeared with bolt cutters. They quickly made an opening in the fence.

As the crowd poured in, police vans sped down Varick Street toward Zuccotti Park, where another group of several hundred protesters was trying to retake the space where they had camped out since mid-September. It was cleaner than it had been in some time: after the protesters were thrown out, workers using power washers blasted water over the stone that covers the ground.

The cleaned-up park caught the attention of passers-by who had become accustomed to seeing the protesters’ tents and tarps. One young father, pushing his toddler son in a stroller, gave police officers guarding Zuccotti Park a thumbs-up sign.

Another man, rushing by in a cream suit, flashed them a huge grin, and a blonde woman stopped in her tracks. “Ooh, good,” she said.

Marybeth Carragher, who lives in a building overlooking the park, said she and other residents were apprehensive about the city’s plan to let the protesters return, without their tents. “I think my neighbors and I are very thankful that the mayor acted,” she said, “but we remain completely outraged for having to endure this for nine weeks.”

The operation to clear the park had begun near the , where the police gathered before riding in vans to the block-square park. As they did, dozens of protesters linked arms and shouted “No retreat, no surrender,” “This is our home” and “Barricade!”

The mayor’s office sent out a message on at 1:19 a.m. saying: “Occupants of Zuccotti should temporarily leave and remove tents and tarps. Protesters can return after the park is cleared.” Fliers handed out by the police at the private park on behalf of the park’s owner and the city spelled out the same message.

The protesters rallied around an area known as the kitchen, near the middle of the park, and began putting up makeshift barricades with tables and pieces of scrap wood.

Over the next two hours, dozens of protesters left the park while a core group of about 100 dug in around the food area. Many locked arms and defied police orders to leave. Some sang and chanted at the officers to “disobey your orders.”

“If they come in, we’re not going anywhere,” said Chris Johnson, 32, who sat with other remaining protesters near the food area.

By 3 a.m., dozens of officers in helmets, watched over by Commissioner Kelly, closed in on those who remained. The police pulled them out one by one and handcuffed them. Most were led out without incident.

The police move came as organizers put out word on their Web site that they planned to “shut down Wall Street” with a demonstration on Thursday to commemorate the completion of two months of encampment, which has prompted similar demonstrations across the country.

The move also came hours after a small demonstration at City Hall on Monday by opponents of the protest, including local residents and merchants, some of whom urged the mayor to clear out the park.

Before the police moved in, they set up a battery of klieg lights and aimed them into the park. A police captain, wearing a helmet, walked down Liberty Street and announced: “The city has determined that the continued occupation of Zuccotti Park poses an increasing health and fire safety hazard.”

The captain ordered the protesters to “to immediately remove all private property” and said that if they interfered with the police operation, they would be arrested. Property that was not removed would be taken to a sanitation garage, the police said.

About 200 supporters of the protesters arrived early Tuesday after hearing that the park was being cleared. They were prevented from getting within a block of the park by a police barricade. There were a number of arrests after some scuffles between the two sides, but no details were immediately available. After being forced up Broadway by the police, some of the supporters decided to march several blocks to Foley Square.

In the weeks since the protest began, Mr. Bloomberg had struggled with how to respond. He repeatedly made clear that he did not support the demonstrators’ arguments or their tactics, but he has also defended their right to protest and in recent days and weeks has sounded increasingly exasperated, especially in the wake of growing complaints from neighbors about how the protest and the city’s response to it has disrupted the neighborhood and hurt local businesses.
499 2011-11-16 While Herman Cain's foreign policy stumbles have raised questions about his command of the facts, he says he would consult with military officials and other expert advisers to guide him through the thicket of world affairs.     So who might advise...
500 2011-11-17 The supermini is intended to be G.M.'s answer to stylish city cars like the Fiat 500, Smart Fortwo and new Scion iQ....
501 2011-11-17 The supermini is intended to be G.M.'s answer to stylish city cars like the Fiat 500, Smart Fortwo and new Scion iQ....
502 2011-11-17 Checking in on two new shows on Thursday night, "Big Shrimpin'" on the History channel and "Killer Shrimp" on Nat Geo Wild....
503 2011-11-17 Checking in on two new shows on Thursday night, "Big Shrimpin'" on the History channel and "Killer Shrimp" on Nat Geo Wild....
504 2011-11-17 Short-term lending by a London Stock Exchange-owned clearinghouse is increasingly  in demand amid turmoil in the Italian financial market....
505 2011-11-17 Short-term lending by a London Stock Exchange-owned clearinghouse is increasingly in demand amid turmoil in the Italian financial market....
506 2011-11-17 The sculptor Tom Otterness loses a contract in San Francisco....
507 2011-11-17 The sculptor Tom Otterness loses a contract in San Francisco....
508 2011-11-17 One Police Plaza: A name change for a police unit, and a focus on trust....
509 2011-11-17 One Police Plaza: A name change for a police unit, and a focus on trust....
510 2011-11-17 General Electric's 240-volt WattStation was named Wednesday the preferred charger of the Coda sedan....
511 2011-11-17 General Electric's 240-volt WattStation was named Wednesday the preferred charger of the Coda sedan....
512 2011-11-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
513 2011-11-17 The National Advertising Initiative selected Marc Groman, a Federal Trade Commission official with extensive Washington experience, to become its new executive director....
514 2011-11-17 The National Advertising Initiative selected Marc Groman, a Federal Trade Commission official with extensive Washington experience, to become its new executive director....
515 2011-11-17 A proposal to make cash distributions to MF Global customers was the focus of a hearing on Thursday at the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan. DealBook provided live coverage of the proceedings....
516 2011-11-17 A proposal to make cash distributions to MF Global customers was the focus of a hearing on Thursday at the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan. DealBook provided live coverage of the proceedings....
517 2011-11-17 The Day: When Chelsea Clinton started working at NBC News, she had to be the most untrained and least experienced new reporter at a major network since, oh, Jenna Bush Hager. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
518 2011-11-17 The Day: When Chelsea Clinton started working at NBC News, she had to be the most untrained and least experienced new reporter at a major network since, oh, Jenna Bush Hager. Also, what City Room is reading in other newspapers and blogs....
519 2011-11-17 Google Music will sell individual tracks as well as full albums, letting customers store the files in "cloud" accounts. Customers will be allowed to share music by offering friends one free chance to listen to any track purchased through the servi...
520 2011-11-17 Decide.com has a mobile app for predicting the future price of consumer electronics....
521 2011-11-17 The inaugural budget of Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, which pits unpopular cuts and fees against the city’s growing fiscal crisis, won unanimous approval from all 50 aldermen on Wednesday. The $8.2 billion budget leans heavily on politically charged cost-saving measures like consolidating police and fire departments, closing mental health clinics, laying off city workers, reducing library hours and increasing some fees.
522 2011-11-17 Lee Pockriss, who wrote the music for midcentury pop hits like “Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie Yellow Polka Dot Bikini,” “Catch a Falling Star” and “Johnny Angel,” died on Monday at his home in Bridgewater, Conn. He was 87.

His death was confirmed by his nephew Adam Pockriss.

Perry Como made a hit of the gentle ballad “Catch a Falling Star” (“Put it in your pocket/Save it for a rainy day”), which Mr. Pockriss wrote with Paul Vance, in 1957. Shelley Fabares introduced Mr. Pockriss and Lyn Duddy’s wistful love song “Johnny Angel” (“I dream of him and me/And how it’s gonna be”) as her teenage character on the family sitcom “The Donna Reed Show” in 1962.

But in between, Mr. Pockriss struck a very different note in another collaboration with Mr. Vance: “Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie Yellow Polka Dot Bikini,” a novelty number about a young woman “afraid to come out of the water” and be seen in the revealing swimsuit she was wearing. Her reluctance was understandable, because the navel-revealing bikini was still considered relatively shocking outside Hollywood and the French Riviera. In fact, the song has been credited with helping it gain acceptance.

Brian Hyland had a No. 1 hit with the song in 1960, and it was so inescapable as part of popular culture that a Hollywood film, Billy Wilder’s “One, Two, Three” (1961), affectionately lampooned it with a scene in which East German soldiers tortured a character (played by Horst Bucholz) by forcing him to listen to the song repeatedly.

Mr. Pockriss also worked in musical theater for decades. He wrote the music and Anne Croswell wrote the lyrics for the 1963 Broadway show “Tovarich,” for which Vivien Leigh won the Tony Award for best actress in a musical. The two also collaborated on “Ernest in Love,” a musical version of Oscar Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest,” first produced off Broadway in 1960 and revived by the Irish Repertory Company in 2009; “Conrack,” based on Pat Conroy’s book, which had an Off Broadway production in 1987; and “Bodo,” about a 12th-century goatherd, produced at the Promenade Theater in 1983.

With the lyricist Carolyn Leigh and Hugh Wheeler of “Sweeney Todd,” Mr. Pockriss created “Gatsby,” a musical based on F. Scott Fitzgerald’s novel “The Great Gatsby,” in 1969. It was best known as an unproduced work, but this year it received two concert performances as part of the New York Musical Theater Festival. David Rooney, reviewing it in The New York Times, said that the songs succeeded in “evoking Fitzgerald’s characters, spreading a beguiling carpet of melancholy beneath all that jazz age revelry.”
523 2011-11-17 “Tonight I am asking every Detroiter and all who care about this city to stand with us and work with us to keep Detroit our city,” he said. “I want you to know the challenges we are facing. I want you to know what we’re doing to address them. I want you to know that I love this city just like you do, and we need your help like we’ve never needed it before.”

At another point, Mr. Bing said: “The apathy that has paralyzed Detroit for decades ends tonight.”

One challenge that he faces is convincing people here that this really is an emergency, the financial end of the line. Some Detroiters are inured to urgent warnings, having heard plenty of gloomy news about the city’s finances, its miserable population losses (down by 25 percent last decade to about 713,000 residents), and its sometimes dubious political leadership. Mr. Bing, a former professional basketball star and a businessman, arrived at City Hall in 2009 in the firestorm that followed Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and still faces federal criminal charges.

Mr. Bing proposed hiring private companies to manage Detroit’s streetlight operation, which has been widely criticized for leaving portions of the city dark and dangerous, and the bus system, which has been plagued by delays, a shortage of equipment and repair problems.

He also called for sweeping cuts for city employees, proposals that immediately drew criticism from union leaders here but that he said could save the city $40 million by June, the end of the city’s budget year. Otherwise, he said, the city would run out of cash by April and face a $45 million shortfall by June. Mr. Bing suggested an end to furlough days but a 10 percent pay cut for workers, including police officers and firefighters; a 10 percent increase in employee contributions to health care coverage; a lowering of payouts from the pension system; and “additional strategic layoffs.”

“This is not an attack on labor or our dedicated employees,” Mr. Bing insisted. “The private sector, including the auto industry, was forced to accept tough cuts to survive. The terms we are asking for are no different than what most Detroiters receive at their places of employment.”

While some City Council members praised Mr. Bing for the new plan, a question loomed among Detroiters and analysts: Realistically, could all of this get done? Not to mention swiftly? In addition to seeking concessions from unions during their current contract, Mr. Bing said, he is seeking an increase in the city’s corporate tax rate, 10 percent pay cuts for city contractors and millions of dollars that he said the State of Michigan owed the city in lost revenue sharing from a 1998 agreement.

Minutes after Mr. Bing’s address, Gov. Rick Snyder issued a statement saying he was working closely with the mayor and remained supportive of the city’s efforts to solve its problems. Still, the governor also said he anticipated that Mr. Bing would soon submit a request for a preliminary financial review of the city — which can be an early step when the state is asked to assign an outside party to manage a city’s finances, though it is not an automatic sign that an emergency manager is imminent.

Around here in recent weeks, many, including Mr. Bing, have spoken of the possibility of a state-appointed emergency manager’s assuming control of city operations. On Wednesday, Mr. Bing said he wanted to make it entirely clear that such an outcome was the last thing he would wish.

“I don’t want an emergency manager making decisions for my city,” he said. “I am your mayor, and I want to continue to lead the city back. I am going tell you what we are doing to get buses up and running. I am going to tell you what we’re doing to turn the lights on and keep our city safe. And I’m going to ask for your help to push for the reforms, tough choices and structural changes we need to control our own destiny.”
524 2011-11-17 LONDON — A lawyer representing 51 people who say they were victims of phone hacking and press intrusion told a hearing on Wednesday that his clients and their families had been followed, spied on, threatened, harassed, vilified, blackmailed and driven to suicide attempts by a British tabloid run amok.

Testifying before the Leveson Inquiry, called to examine press ethics in the wake of the phone hacking scandal that shook the British news media and political establishment last summer, the lawyer, David Sherborne, described some of the particulars.

He told of the actor Hugh Grant’s former girlfriend, while pregnant with the couple’s child, receiving “a barrage of telephone calls” from a blocked number one evening just as Mr. Grant was speaking out against the tabloid press on a BBC program. “When she finally answered,” he said, “she was threatened in the most menacing terms” and ordered to tell Mr. Grant to “shut up.”

He also described how the parents of Milly Dowler, a teenager who was murdered in 2002, felt “euphoria” when they discovered that voice mail messages had been deleted from her cellphone after she went missing, leading them to think it meant that she was still alive. The parents later learned that The News of the World had hacked into her phone and deleted the messages to make room for more messages from her distraught friends and family, so they could then listen to those, too.

Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation, which owned The News of the World and shut it down in July, recently paid the Dowler family $3.2 million in compensation.
525 2011-11-17 The sexual abuse scandal that has engulfed Penn State is looking more and more like a cover-up, even as more potential victims step forward. Those investigating the case need to determine what university officials knew, when they knew it and what they did about allegations of sexual assault lodged against Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant football coach, in 1998 and afterward.

The public’s right to know how the university dealt with the allegations, however, has been severely restricted by a provision in state law that was strongly supported by the same university officials who ignored all danger signs in the Sandusky case. Under a misguided exemption to the 2008 state open records law, Penn State’s records — including those of the campus police — are closed to the public.

State lawmakers should revoke that exemption. The right-to-know law applies to all public agencies in the state, including schools in the state university system. It exempts four “state related” institutions like Penn State, which receive public money but operate autonomously. Graham Spanier, the former president of Penn State who was dismissed earlier this month, argued aggressively for the exemption back in 2007, declaring it needed to protect donor information, intellectual property rights and deals that the university struck with companies it spins off.

But the exemption makes no sense at all when applied to Penn State’s police force, which is vested with the same authority as municipal police officers and whose functions clearly affect people who are not part of the faculty or student body. Nor does it seem appropriate for a university that will receive more than a quarter-of-a-billion dollars from taxpayers this fiscal year to be off-limits to public examination.

The need for close scrutiny of Penn State’s leaders and its police operation is underscored in the grand jury report in this case. It raises grave doubts about how the university handled allegations of sexual assault in 2002. The utter lack of accountability at the university shows why the State Legislature needs to close this loophole in the law, and do it quickly.
526 2011-11-17 Two years of gross mismanagement of -zone debt crisis have all too predictably produced a wider crisis of market confidence that now threatens the entire 17-nation euro zone. This week’s formation of new technocrat-led governments in and has not calmed fears. Practically every euro zone country is paying the price in higher interest costs and ebbing economic growth.

The only country that isn’t suffering — yet — is , whose competitive export-driven economy feeds on foreign demand and an exchange rate held down by its neighbors’ troubles. But all European countries cannot be Germany and run net surpluses, especially if insists on policies that keep factories shuttered and workers unemployed.

And German leaders are wrong if they think their country will remain unscathed as its major trading partners and neighbors unravel.

Chancellor of Germany has been talking a more pro-European line. But she is still insisting on growth-killing austerity as the price for European bailouts and still blocking the from printing more euros and acting as a lender of last resort.

Mrs. Merkel’s advisers insist that she is doing what the German people want. That is not leadership. She needs to challenge her voters’ simplistic stereotypes of southern European sloth and tell them the truth: The real threat to Germany isn’t inflation; it is an economic collapse across . And Germany has a huge amount to lose from a fracturing of the .
527 2011-11-17 Kristin M. Madison, a professor of law and health sciences at in , said, “People are definitely worried that programs will be used to drive away employees or potential employees who are unhealthy.”

Current regulations allow companies to require workers who fail to meet specific standards to pay up to 20 percent of their insurance costs. The raises that amount to 30 percent in 2014 and, potentially, to as much as half the cost of a policy.

When Wal-Mart Stores, the nation’s largest employer, recently sought the higher payments from some smokers, its decision was considered unusual, according to benefits experts. The amount, reaching $2,000 more than for nonsmokers, was much higher than surcharges of a few hundred dollars a year imposed by other employers on their smoking workers.

And the only way for Wal-Mart employees to avoid the surcharges was to attest that their doctor said it would be medically inadvisable or impossible to . Other employers accept enrollment in tobacco cessation programs as an automatic waiver for surcharges.

“This is another example of where it’s not trying to create healthier options for people,” said Dan Schlademan, director of Making Change at Walmart, a union-backed campaign that is sharply critical of the company’s benefits. “It looks a lot more like cost-shifting.”

Wal-Mart declined to make an official available for an interview and provided limited answers to questions through an e-mail response. “The increase in premiums in tobacco users is directly related to the fact that tobacco users generally consume about 25 percent more health care services than nontobacco users,” said Greg Rossiter, a company spokesman.

Wal-Mart requires an employee to have stopped smoking to qualify for lower premiums. The company, which has more than one million employees, started offering an antismoking program this year, and says more than 13,000 workers have enrolled.

Some labor experts contend that employers can charge workers higher fees only if they are tied to a broader wellness program, although federal rules do not define wellness programs.

Employers cannot discriminate against smokers by asking them to pay more for their insurance unless the surcharge is part of a broader effort to help them quit, said Karen L. Handorf, a lawyer who specializes in employee benefits for Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll in .

Many programs that ask employees to meet certain health targets offer rewards in the form of lower premiums. At Health, a large health system, employees who do not smoke and achieve a certain body mass index, or B.M.I., can receive up to $720 a year off the cost of their insurance. “It’s all about the results,” said Sheriee Ladd, a senior vice president in human resources at the system.

Initially the system also rewarded employees who met cholesterol and blood glucose goals, but after workers complained that those hurdles seemed punitive, shifted its emphasis a bit.

Workers who do not meet the weight targets can be eligible for lower premiums if a doctor indicates they have a medical condition that makes the goal unreasonable, Ms. Ladd said. “There are not many of those who come forward, but it’s available,” she said, adding that workers must be nonsmoking to get the other discount. About 65 percent of roughly 16,000 workers receive a discount.

Some benefits consultants say companies may be increasingly willing to test the boundaries of the law because there has been little enforcement, even though there is a provision requiring employers to accommodate workers with medical conditions limiting their ability to meet certain standards. “They are thumbing their nose at the accommodation provision,” said Michael Wood, a consultant at Towers Watson.

Still, “The employer is going to win not by cost-shifting but by getting people to stop smoking,” said Barry Hall, an executive at Buck Consultants, which advises employers.

Some versions of tougher standards have already been abandoned. The , for example, had introduced a health plan called Vital Measures, which allowed workers to reduce the size of their deductible by meeting various health targets, but discontinued the offering three years ago because of insufficient demand, according to a spokesman. The insurer now offers plans that allow employees to earn rewards by either achieving health targets or participating in a coaching program to improve their health.

Wal-Mart’s decision to start charging smokers more for insurance came abruptly, according to some employees who say they had no chance to quit or consult a doctor. Jerome Allen, who works for Wal-Mart in , says he realized he was paying $40 a month more as a smoking surcharge only when he saw a printout of his insurance coverage.

“Forty dollars is a lot of money,” said Mr. Allen, 63, who works part time. He says he has now quit smoking.

Wal-Mart says it mailed information about benefits changes weeks in advance of the enrollment deadline.

Under Wal-Mart’s programs, employees who want to enroll in some of the company’s more generous plans, which offer lower deductibles and out-of-pocket maximums, can pay as much as $178 a month, or more than $2,000, a year more if they smoke.

Many other companies charge smokers a smaller, flat amount, and have kept any financial penalties under the 20 percent threshold set by the federal rules, according to benefits experts. Target, a Wal-Mart competitor, does not charge smokers more for insurance, while Home Depot charges a smoker $20 a month. PepsiCo requires smokers to pay $600 a year more than nonsmokers unless they complete an antismoking program.

Some critics say Wal-Mart’s surcharge may have the effect of forcing people to opt for less expensive plans or persuade them to drop coverage altogether. Dr. Kevin Volpp, the director of the Center for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics at the Institute at the , pointed out that surcharges and stringent health targets might wind up endangering those whose health was already at high risk. “There is this potentially very significant set of unintended consequences,” he said.
528 2011-11-17 WASHINGTON — The House on Wednesday approved a measure that would repeal a tax-withholding requirement on government contractors and provide tax incentives for companies that hire veterans, sending President Obama the first, relatively modest components of his jobs bill for his signature.

“Veterans of every working-age generation are finding themselves unemployed or seriously underemployed due to the economic downturn,” Representative Jeff Miller, Republican of Florida  and chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, said in support of the bill, which passed. 422 to 0, under a fast-tracked process on the House floor.

The vote followed overwhelming Senate approval and represented a rare bipartisan consensus on elements in the package assembled by the White House in its effort to spur hiring. Republicans have rejected or blocked other pieces of the legislation, including proposals for capital works and money for the hiring of emergency workers and public school teachers.

After the vote, the president said in a statement that he wanted to “congratulate Republicans and Democrats in Congress for coming together to pass these tax credits that will encourage businesses to hire America’s veterans.  No veteran who fought for our country should have to fight for a job when they come home.”

He also said approval of the measure was a “only a step. Congress needs to pass the rest of my American Jobs Act so that we can create jobs and put money in the pockets of the middle class.”

At the same time, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, urged the president to hold a public signing ceremony of the legislation to illustrate the bipartisan nature of the bill — a challenge to the president to share some of the credit with Republicans.

The withholding provision — passed as part of a larger tax bill under the Bush administration with strong Republican support but delayed for various reasons until 2013 — repealed  the requirement that federal, state and local agencies withhold 3 percent of certain payments to companies doing business with the government. Its proponents say it could encourage those who do business with the government to hire more workers. The Congressional Budget Office said its repeal would reduce federal revenues by $11 billion over 10 years.
529 2011-11-17 And yet, as an urban microprocessor — a catalyst for change — Campus Tec is showing signs of promise. After about a year of operation, neighbors say it is already stirring a small revival in a district called 4 Grados that has had its ups and downs.

A San Francisco-style apartment building a few blocks away, with glass-fronted lofts (built by Mr. Mini’s cousin), recently filled up, selling out faster than many expected.

Certainly the young people in skinny jeans and too-tight plaid button-downs walking around at lunchtime on a recent afternoon were a welcome sight for business owners like Patricia Laparra, 43.

The owner of a designer glasses boutique near Campus Tec’s main entrance, Ms. Laparra was one of many surprised by Campus Tec’s impact. October was her second best month for sales since opening seven years ago. After a time when she thought she would have to close, she now says she has no plans to leave.

“They’re geeks,” she said, referring to Campus Tec’s 375 inhabitants. “They care about style. They’re cool.”

Many of the companies inside, under exposed air ducts meant to signify Important Creative Work, were founded by Guatemalans with foreign experience. The motion graphics start-up on the seventh floor, BigoMo, consisted of two people: one, Pedro Méndez, 28, had worked in Spain; the other, Kristoffer Hormander, 25, recently returned from three years at Full Sail University outside Orlando, Fla.

Both said that they came back to Guatemala because they felt there were more opportunities for creativity, and less competition for business. One recent independent report, from The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, found that the average cost to start a business in Guatemala is only $7,569, compared with $17,513 in Brazil and $39,670 in Costa Rica.

Technology in particular, Mr. Méndez said, offers a new path to success, a way for many young Guatemalans to overcome the usual social divides. “There’s a window of opportunity,” added his partner, Mr. Hormander.

Other company founders agreed. At Milkn’Cookies, Wendy Beatriz Ruiz Cofiño, 38, praised Campus Tec for showing that local entrepreneurs could come together, and grow. As the motto on her company chalkboard put it, in almost perfect English: “keeping together is a progress.”

And profits are not necessarily the only measure of success. Since the peace accords of 1996 ended decades of war in Guatemala, many entrepreneurs have been focusing on the union of technology and social policy, creating things like affordable water filters, or a program for distributing health information to cellphones.

Campus Tec has a taste of this as well. Tech4Mobile, a company on the other side of a grassy patio from Mr. Méndez and Mr. Hormander, recently built a computerized system to record votes in the Guatemalan Congress. Before the government installed the software, votes were rarely recorded.

María Mercedes Zaghi, the business development coordinator for Campus Tec, said that she hoped to recruit more companies with a similar focus. But for now, Campus Tec is full with a waiting list. That is partly why there are plans to add another building, with three times as much space.

“We need to make it bigger,” said Mr. Mini, who combines a family history in real estate with an M.B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley. “It needs critical mass.”

But to get to that point, a final element is needed: financing. Apparently the Silicon Valley concept still requires Silicon Valley money.

Mr. Mini acknowledged that this would be the next significant challenge. Guatemala, after all, is still a place where progress can be upended by risk.

Just a few years ago, the 4 Grados area experienced a different kind of boom, with restaurants offering wine and middle-class families flocking to the cobblestone streets. Then the drunks and drug dealers came, the restaurants closed and the customers disappeared, residents said. Can Campus Tec and its geeks break the pattern? Mr. Mini sounded cautiously optimistic.

“I honestly think a new Guatemala is being born right now,” he said. “But,” he added, “it’s going to take time.”
530 2011-11-17 He said that if the government found any retirees who were getting too little money, it would pay them back with interest. If any retirees turn out to be getting too much, they will have their future checks reduced, to gradually make up for the overpayments, but they will not be charged interest. Mr. Gotbaum said potential problems were expected to be among pension plans that failed within the last decade.

The audit report did not reveal how large the errors were or how many there might be. Representative George Miller of California, the senior Democrat on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, said he was waiting for a second audit, now in the works, “to shed further light on the precise nature and scope of the errors committed.”

The second audit, by the agency’s inspector general, is focusing on possible errors made when the insurer took over United Air Lines’ pension plans in 2005.

United’s plans had large shortfalls, and their failure was expected to cost the agency more than $6 billion at the time. Some United retirees suffered large losses, because the government’s pension insurance is limited and many of them had earned benefits above the limits.

The episode gave rise to sweeping amendments of the federal pension law, intended to make sure companies set aside enough money to cover the cost of the benefits employees are earning. Mr. Miller has a number of United Air Lines employees and retirees in his district and has been trying to make sure the pension takeover was handled correctly.

“The findings of today’s audit underscore what is at stake,” he said. “Indeed, it underscores a systemic problem that may affect retirees well beyond United.”

Mr. Gotbaum said that for most of the pension insurer’s existence, the plans that collapsed were fairly small, and the workers’ benefits seldom exceeded the insurance limit, currently $54,000 a year. That began to change around 2000, with a series of big bankruptcies in the steel, airline and auto-parts industries, where many workers and retirees had earned pensions greater than the limit.

In such cases, complex rules take effect to measure any existing assets in the defunct pension fund and divide them among groups of workers and retirees. The rules are meant to provide relief, if possible, to the oldest retirees, but they require a precise measurement of the asset values, because the relief is paid for by these assets, not agency funds.

Mr. Gotbaum said that in recent years, companies had ventured into hard-to-value assets.

“They have begun to invest in forms of real estate, hedge funds and private equities, whose values you can’t just look in the newspaper to determine,” he said. “In those instances, the old ways of valuing assets don’t work very well.”

He said the agency had not always kept up to date in its methods for calculating asset values.

“We now have those procedures in place,” he said. “But seven, eight years ago, we didn’t. And seven, eight years ago, the people we hired to go out and check these assets out did a bad job.”
531 2011-11-17 “I was learning to reduce all that, but I didn’t really shift the paradigm,” he said.

But the more he thought about how homegrown food and medicinal herbs bolstered his own health (his wife, Nancy, is an herbalist), the more he became convinced of the importance of feeding his trees with fungal-rich mulch and herbal sprays that boosted their immune systems.

In his latest book, he rejects even copper and sulfur sprays.

“The Holistic Orchard: Tree Fruits and Berries the Biological Way,” which will be published next month by Chelsea Green, explains how to grow fruit with nothing more lethal than neem oil and sprays made out of liquid fish fertilizer (which has fatty acids and enzymes lacking in pasteurized fish emulsion), homegrown horsetail and stinging nettles (both are high in silica and help leaves fend off fungal disease).

More important, he writes, apple growers need to understand how their trees grow above and below ground and what kind of soil they need: the woodsy, fungal-dominated kind found at a forest’s edge, rather than nitrogen-rich garden soil.

He also talks about how to prune and how to mulch with ramial wood chips, the tender branches pruned in late winter that can be allowed to decompose wherever they fall.

And he suggests herbs to grow beneath the trees, like comfrey, which is rich in calcium and draws minerals from subsoil. Also, its flowers attract native bees, to pollinate the apple blossoms.

To encourage those bees to stay, Mr. Phillips makes nests out of pieces of septic pipe. Native mason bees and bumblebees, he said, are more efficient at pollinating than European bees, which are also scarce these days. “Honeybees are like bankers,” he said. “They work 9 to 5, and only when it’s 60 degrees. Bumblebees and mason bees work from first light until dark, and pollinate all the female parts of a flower, so all the seeds take.”

If it sounds complex, it is. But don’t worry, Mr. Phillips says, smiling angelically. If you plant a tree, you will get apples in seven years or so. (Impatient gardeners need not apply.)

“But that’s good,” he said. “As the tree is growing, you’re learning.” A beginner, he suggests, could plant three trees in a triangle, 20 feet apart. Dwarf trees need less space, but have weaker root systems and are more subject to disease.

So if you have a tiny backyard, consider collaborating with your neighbors. Or support a community orchard, he said, which is usually run by “the guy who gets so excited, he says, ‘Honey, I’m going to plant 10 more trees.’ ”

MR. PHILLIPS’S love affair with apples began soon after he started his first job as a civil engineer, managing construction outside Washington, D.C.

“I would watch the sun rise over four-lane bumper-to-bumper traffic, thinking, ‘There’s probably something out there that would make me happier,’ ” he said. “I retired from civil engineering at 23.”

Soon, he had signed on as a carpenter for a community in southern New Hampshire devoted to helping abused and abandoned children. There, he helped build post-and-beam solar houses and dug up old tennis courts (the property had once been a summer camp), turning them into gardens.

He also planted apple trees. “And I realized, ‘I love this,’ ” he said.

In the fall, he took time off to pick apples in southern Vermont. Then one spring, he headed to New Zealand, where it was fall, to pick apples.

“I picked Cox’s Orange Pippins, looking out over the Tasman Sea,” he said. “They taste pretty good right off the tree.”

By the time he returned, he was determined to grow apples organically. He had fallen in love with a social worker, Nancy Spannenberg, at the children’s community, and the two moved north in the late 1980s, eventually settling here and raising a daughter, Grace, now 16, along with herbs, vegetables and, of course, apples.

Their farmstead, which harks back to the 1880s, had a remnant of an earlier orchard: a century-old tree that bears Duchess of Oldenburg apples, a chain embedded in its trunk to keep it from breaking apart.

“It’s one of four apple varieties brought to American shores in the 1830s from Russia,” Mr. Phillips said. “They were looking for apples that were very hardy to this climate, that a homestead family could depend on for a crop.”

It’s also one of his favorite apples, a tart summer variety that makes a great pie and applesauce.

“It has a reddish blush on green, with some stripes, and then the green turns yellow,” he said, with a lover’s attention to detail.

But then, Mr. Phillips loves all his apples. And there are 80 varieties thriving here.

One wild apple tree was 20 years old when he got here, and he could tell it had a healthy root system. So he started grafting varieties to its branches. Now, 24 varieties ripen on its stems.

How is that possible?

When children ask that, Mr. Phillips answers like this: “I say, ‘Kayle, if I cut off your thumb and put it on Ben’s thumb over here, then everything growing out of Ben’s thumb would be Kayle.’ ”

So is his description of his nemesis, the round-headed apple-tree borer.

“The female crawls down the trunk to the soil line and makes as many as seven slits in a little baby tree the size of my thumb and lays an egg,” he said. “That grub stays in there for two years, eating the cambium and sap wood, then extends down to the roots. If just one survives, that tree’s dead.”

You could go after the larvae with a wire, but if there are seven, you’ll carve up the tree.

Instead, in July and August, when the females lay their eggs, Mr. Phillips sprays the trunk with a neem oil solution that contains a compound called azadirachtin, which suppresses molting. If an insect can’t shed its skin as it grows, it dies. Neem oil also deters insects from feeding and laying eggs.

Chemical companies have isolated the compound to manufacture patented products like Neemix or Ecozin. But those extractions “lose the other constituents of the plant,” Mr. Phillips said.

For instance, pure neem oil, he said, has terpenoid compounds that help the neem tree combat disease. Apple trees have the same terpenoids, so they respond to the oil.

Mr. Phillips sprays his trees at various stages: when the buds are “quarter-inch green,” as orchardists say, then when they are pink and then when the petals fall. These are the times when pests like moths and curculios feed on the tender flowers, and when fungal diseases like scab and cedar apple rust settle onto leaves and stems. “By spraying, I’m stimulating the terpenoids in the apple tree,” he said. “And boosting its immune system.”

Though two inches of wet snow lay on the ground on that sunny afternoon, it was quickly melting, and a few trees were still laden with fruit. Mr. Phillips had been up on his ladder picking the last of Northern Spy, a tangy red apple that makes a great pie and stores well. It’s one of those late-season apples that used to get nipped by the cold 20 years ago, when October meant temperatures in the 20s.

“But now I can tree-ripen the fruit,” he said.

That’s the good side of climate change. The bad side is 80 degrees on April Fool’s Day, which brings out the apple blossoms, followed by a hard freeze. That happened last year.

This year it was hail the size of golf balls that knocked half the leaves off the trees, when the late varieties were in full bloom.

“I was afraid I would see all kinds of fire blight,” Mr. Phillips said, “because of all the wounds opening into the vascular system.”

But the bark healed. All those sprays full of microbes and fatty acids must have built up the trees’ immune systems.

That’s what Mr. Phillips means by holistic: healing from within.

“It doesn’t hurt to be reflective about which varieties to grow,” said Michael Phillips, who grows about 80 kinds of apples in northern New Hampshire.

But most of us, he knows, are more likely to think, “I’m going to plant an apple tree this weekend,” and run out to the Home Depot or Lowe’s, where there are four or five ubiquitous varieties, some of which won’t grow well in your area.

“Here, it’s Agway, which sells Macintosh, Cortland, Red Delicious and Granny Smith,” Mr. Philips said.

Granny Smith ripens in mid-November to early December. “And no way that’ll happen here,” he said. “Yet they sell it in northern New Hampshire.”

Better to talk to local orchardists and hobby growers first, to find out which varieties are suited to your soil and climate. Mr. Phillips’s book “The Holistic Orchard” lists a number of growers’ associations, including North American Fruit Explorers (nafex.org); Holistic Orchard Network (groworganicapples.com), which contains information on community orchards, and Backyard Fruit Growers (sas.upenn.edu/~dailey/byfg.html).

One of the worst things for an apple tree is to be plopped into a little hole dug in a lawn (which is often over-fertilized with nitrogen) and sprayed with herbicides. Dense grass roots also compete for nutrients in the soil.

“If you plunked one in, you should have removed a four-foot area around the tree,” Mr. Phillips said. If you didn’t remove the sod, “cover it with cardboard and straw, or wood chips to smother the grass and break things down.”

Ideally, the ground should be prepared a year ahead, planted with a cover crop like red or crimson clover and also mixed with oats.

Fall is also a good time to collect soil samples and send them to a reputable soil testing lab, like the one run by the University of Massachusetts (extension.umass.edu/floriculture/services/soil-testing).
532 2011-11-17 A year ago, the first Canvas store opened in SoHo. Last week, a second one quietly opened in Chelsea, in a space that for years housed the Door Store. “The space in SoHo doesn’t have enough room to show our complete furniture collection or the vintage pieces we sell,” said Andrew Corrie, the owner. “Here we can properly display everything.”

At about 4,000 square feet, the new store is double the size of the first, and gives the company’s furniture, lighting, tableware and decorative accessories — all of which have a sustainable or ethical angle — room to breathe. Prices range from $12 for a gold coffee spoon to $3,500 for the Mercer loveseat.
533 2011-11-17 Garden lawyers have not been served with the lawsuit. In a statement, the Knicks expressed disappointment and said that the claims “have no merit.”

“When the Knicks obtained Cuttino in November 2008, the team fully expected him to be our starting shooting guard,” the statement said. “It was a significant setback to our team when we learned he would not be able to play.”

On the day he retired, Mobley said that doctors had “made it clear that my heart condition has gotten worse, and I couldn’t continue to play professional basketball without putting my health and life in serious danger.” He thanked the team’s medical staff for ordering a magnetic resonance imaging examination, which showed a thickening of his heart — a warning sign for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or HCM.

“Getting the M.R.I. basically saved my life,” Mobley said that day.

Mobley has since reconsidered that stance. In July, he told a Houston television station, KRIV, that his condition “is not serious at all.”

In the lawsuit, Mobley accuses the Knicks of forcing his retirement to save money — an estimated $19 million, including salary and luxury-tax payments to the league. Mobley was fully paid, but the league’s insurance policy picked up 80 percent of his salary for the final season and a half.

The Knicks had traded their starting shooting guard, Jamal Crawford, in a separate deal with the Golden State Warriors and had pegged Mobley as his replacement.

The Knicks were aware that Mobley had a heart condition — and had received waivers from his four previous teams — but the severity is in dispute. In 2008, Mobley said he thought he merely had an enlarged heart (or athlete’s heart) until the Knicks ordered additional tests and concluded he had HCM.

But in the lawsuit, Mobley asserts that he received the diagnosis of HCM in 1999, while with the Houston Rockets, and that the Knicks knew about it. Mobley asserts that he never showed any symptoms during his career and that the condition had not worsened.

Mobley accuses the Knicks of sending him to heart specialists who were “well-known opponents” of allowing athletes with HCM to compete. The lawsuit states that Mobley could have continued with his career by having a defibrillator implanted, but that the Knicks did not give him that option.

The lawsuit accuses the Knicks of discriminating against Mobley “on the basis of perceived or actual disability” in violation of the state’s Human Rights Law and the city’s administrative code.

Andy Miller, Mobley’s agent, referred all inquiries to Mobley’s lawyer, Milton Williams, who declined to comment.
534 2011-11-17 The chief abbot and spiritual leader-in-exile of a Tibetan monastery at the epicenter of a series of self-immolation protests against Chinese rule spoke out forcefully in New York on Wednesday, detailing what he called new and harsh repressive measures taken against the monks at the monastery since the immolations started in March.

The abbot, Kirti Rinpoche, 70, said the Chinese authorities had completely isolated the monastery, Kirti, in a restive area of Ganzi Prefecture in Sichuan Province known as Aba, or Ngaba in Tibetan.

He said that in the past eight months, the Chinese had installed surveillance cameras and deployed as many as 800 security officials inside the monastery as part of an intense “patriotic re-education campaign” meant to prevent any more self-immolations. Although he did not have exact figures for the number of security officials there now or the monks they were supervising, he said it was possible that the security officials outnumbered the monks.

The abbot also said that senior monks had been removed from the monastery and that the other monks had been divided into 55 groups and subjected to random searches, re-education classes and frequent interrogations about their opinions.

He attributed the self-immolations and the harsh crackdown that followed to “something already reflected in a statement made by Mao Zedong himself: that wherever there is repression there will be resistance.”
535 2011-11-17 That includes designing men’s and pets’ clothing lines, John Bartlett Consensus and John Bartlett Statements, for Bon-Ton, a mass-market chain of department stores based in York, Pa., that manufactures its own labels (in addition to selling nationally known brands like Laura Ashley, Polo, Izod, Victor Alfaro and others). Mr. Bartlett is also preparing an eco-fashion show in the spring, financed with a Lexus award.

Another big, new preoccupation? Animal activism — in particular animal rescue. When Tiny Tim, his big three-legged rescue mutt, died last year, Mr. Bartlett started visiting shelters around New York, where he met people pulling dogs from high-kill shelters to foster them and find them homes. It inspired him to start the Tiny Tim Rescue Fund, which devotes 10 percent of profits from the online sale of T-shirts and accessories to support rescue groups and shelters.

“There are still days when I miss Tiny Tim,” said Mr. Bartlett, who lives in Chelsea with John Esty, a custom picture framer, their Bernese mountain dog, Huff, and a Chihuahua-Jack Russell rescue mix, Millie. “A three-legged dog just inspires you.” In fact, the dog would bring smiles to pedestrians by walking for miles with him in the city and had no trouble hopping up and down 11 flights of stairs during the blackout of 2003.

“He pulled people out of their own struggles,” he said. “And I loved that.”

Mr. Bartlett, a soft-spoken Ohio native with a wrestler’s build and square-jawed good looks, graduated from Harvard in 1985 before attending the Fashion Institute of Technology.

He won the fashion designers’ council newcomer’s award in 1993, one year after starting a men’s wear line notable for its frank homoeroticism and inspired by everything from lumberjacks to geeks. (His award acceptance video featured five nude young men doing yoga to the band Dead Can Dance; it infuriated Bill Blass, Mr. Bartlett claims.)

By 1998, when he had toned down his designs and was making clothes for women, too (his first collection was called Butch/Fem), critics and insiders were swooning at his tailoring, bold antiminimalism and smart cultural references. Mad housewives, motorcycle riders, Surrealism, Jean Genet and Forrest Gump inspired him, and he presented some of the most talked-about shows in New York in the 1990s.

Richard Martin, curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, called him “the Jean Paul Gaultier of American men’s wear.” Valerie Steele, curator of the Museum at F.I.T., declared Mr. Bartlett “on the cusp of his time.”

With media attention, money followed. But from 1997 to 2002, he lost financing from his Italian manufacturing backer, as well as his position as the creative director of Byblos. In 2002, he stunned the fashion world by closing down his business and taking what he called a sabbatical. A low-priced 2008 men’s wear line for Liz Claiborne didn’t last, either. The shop was the latest to go.

“Animal-rights talk interests me more than fashion talk right now,” he said.

And so the designer who once made motorcycle chic a high-fashion statement (and fell in love when he saw his current partner trying on his leather pants at a sample sale) is now a canvas-shoe-wearing vegan. Before leaving a recent term on the C.F.D.A., he spoke out against fur. He persuaded Bon-Ton to donate $25,000 to his Tiny Tim Rescue Fund. He often goes into pet shops to ask if dogs come from puppy mills.

“They don’t exactly throw me out, but they show me to the door,” he said.

After leaving his old store, Mr. Bartlett walked downtown to SoHo, passing a parade of unruly dogs and young people dressed in ways that reflected a comfort with both sexuality and fashion less in evidence among the young when he was starting out.

On Centre Street, he walked into Animal Haven, an adoption center that rescues and rehabilitates 800 pets a year. In no time, he found himself holding a white pit bull puppy that was born in a rescuer’s car after its mother had been taken from an abandoned home.

“Oh, oh, oh, you’re such a baby,” he whispered. The puppy nestled deep into his cozy blue corduroy jacket, which he designed just a few years ago.

There could not have been a more appropriate garment for the tenderness of the occasion.
536 2011-11-17 SHANGHAI — The University of California, Berkeley announced this week that it plans to open a large research and teaching facility here as part of a broader plan to bolster its presence in China.

The public university, which is struggling under budget constraints imposed by the state of California, said the Shanghai center would cater to engineering graduate students and be financed over the next five years largely by the Shanghai government and companies operating here. The program is expected to begin in July 2012.

Berkeley’s announcement comes as other prominent American universities are racing to build closer ties to China, hoping to attract new students, deepen research capabilities and set up sites to train business professionals to succeed in the booming Chinese market. New York University and Duke University are each building a campus in the Shanghai area, and Stanford is building a $5 million research center on the campus of the elite Peking University in the city of Beijing.

“This will be a platform or base of operations for us” said Tsu-Jae King Liu, a professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences at Berkeley, and the associate dean for research at the College of Engineering. “A major reason to do this is to enhance the opportunities for our students. We want them to be better prepared to become global leaders.”

China is eager to attract branches of world-class universities in the hope of upgrading its own universities. And big cities like Beijing and Shanghai are pushing for partnerships with prestigious American institutions to attract top students and to create research and development centers that they hope will form the base of a modern, high-tech economy.
537 2011-11-17 “Looking around and seeing what’s going on around the country, we just worry that something might happen here in Boston,” Urszula Masny-Latos, executive director of the Massachusetts chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, said on Tuesday.

A lawyer for the city, William F. Sinnott, argued that it needed to be able to evict protesters without warning because officials did not want to give protesters a chance to mobilize.

While protesters are calling the ruling a victory, the order will last only until a decision is made at the injunction hearing, set for Dec. 1. Judge McIntyre said the issues she will weigh at that hearing will include how Occupy Boston, which, like its sister protests across the country, has no designated leaders or official representatives, can be a party to such a lawsuit, as well as whether occupation truly constitutes expression that must be protected under the first amendment. Judge McIntyre ordered both sides to engage in mediation before that hearing.

Meanwhile, the police in San Francisco arrested seven people and dismantled part of the demonstrators’ downtown encampment Wednesday morning. The officers, dressed in riot gear, let stand most of the tents belonging to Occupy protesters, but cleared a section of tents that had been built on a sidewalk, according to The Associated Press.

Across the bay at the University of California at Berkeley, protesters pitched tents on campus, despite a warning from university officials.

On Tuesday night, thousands of people showed up at the university’s Sproul Plaza to vote on whether to erect tents and to listen to a speech by Robert Reich, a public policy professor at Berkeley who was secretary of labor in the Clinton administration.

Campus police had not removed the tents by Wednesday morning, according to The Associated Press. A previous attempt to put up tents on campus last week was thwarted by the police, who were accused by protesters of using unnecessary force.

In Seattle, several protesters were hit with pepper spray by the police on Tuesday night, including a woman who told officers she was three months pregnant, according to the Seattle police. “Pepper spray was deployed only against subjects who were either refusing a lawful order to disperse or engaging in assaultive behavior toward officers,” the police said in a statement. The police said they made six arrests, including a 17-year-old girl who swung a stick at an officer but missed.

Protesters around the nation have said the break up of Occupy Wall Street by New York police on Tuesday would have little impact on their own demonstrations.

At several encampments, demonstrators who had watched the nighttime police raid in New York via live video streamed on the Internet and over Twitter and Facebook, said that while the Wall Street protest at Zuccotti Park had been their model and given them inspiration, they had no intention of halting their own demonstrations in response.

“I obviously think this is pretty devastating,” said Becca Chavez, 29, who has participated in Occupy Denver, which itself has had a series of run-ins with the police in recent weeks, leading to dozens of arrests. “It was hard to watch. I think because New York was a symbol for so much, if anything, this will get people involved. What they had set up in Zuccotti Park was a community. They really know what they were doing. I think this will really pull a lot of people in who would have not otherwise thought of getting involved.”

At Occupy Oakland, which has been raided twice by the police — once with officers using tear gas and projectiles against demonstrators — one protester, Alexandra Hernandez, 22, said Tuesday that while Occupy Wall Street had served as a beacon for other protests, its existence was no longer necessary for the other demonstrations to continue.

“At the beginning, Zuccotti Park was essential for the movement,” she said. “When I saw the park for the first time, it made me think this was possible. It was physical evidence of a movement. To have a physical location was really important. It was different than anything that I’d seen in my lifetime.”

But she said that in light of the recent mass arrests of Occupy protesters across the country, it might be time for a shift in strategy.

“The physical encampments have been an important symbol of this movement — it’s a taking back of public space,” she said. “There are a lot of people that still want to struggle to have encampments again. I don’t know if the encampments will continue.”

Occupy demonstrations are intentionally leaderless, and protesters in different cities act independently of one another with each group making decisions about what to protest — though most of the camps appeared to have coalesced around opposition to growing disparities in individual wealth, the perceived greed of corporations and financial institutions, and high unemployment levels.

While many cities originally welcomed the protests after encampments began popping up about two months ago, the autonomy of the different sites has flummoxed law enforcement officers, many of whom have struggled with how to deal with them.

More recently, cities began enforcing prohibitions on camping and bans on tents.

And during the last several days, prior to the New York raid, authorities in Salt Lake City and Portland, Ore., as well as in Oakland and Denver, cracked down on the camps, making hundreds of arrests and flattening tents. Local officials said the camps had become public nuisances with sanitation, drug and other crime problems.

Latron Price, 37, an organizer of Occupy Atlanta, said Tuesday he believed the raid on Occupy Wall Street was a sign that the protests had struck a nerve.

“To see that happen in New York shows we’re on the right track,” he said. “These arrests will only strengthen the protests elsewhere.”
538 2011-11-17 Stocks tumbled on Wednesday as Fitch Ratings said further contagion from Europe’s debt crisis will pose a risk to American banks and concerns rose that higher oil prices would hamper economic growth.

Financial shares led the losers on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index as Citigroup and Morgan Stanley dropped at least 4.1 percent. Dell sank 3.2 percent as the personal computer maker told investors to expect slower sales growth for the rest of the year. Abercrombie & Fitch tumbled 14 percent as profit at the clothing retailer trailed estimates. Rambus fell 61 percent after losing a jury trial against Micron Technology and Hynix Semiconductor. Micron surged 23 percent.

The S.& P. 500 slid 20.90 points, or 1.66 percent, to 1,236.91. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 190.57 points, or 1.58 percent, to 11,905.59. The Nasdaq composite index fell 46.59 points, or 1.73 percent, to 2,639.61.

“It’s fear of the unknown spooking the market,” Madelynn Matlock, an investment manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. “There may be more exposure to Europe out there than people really think, even if banks think they are covered. It’s going to be a tough market for quite a while,” she said. “Increasing oil prices is a concern because it’s like a tax on the consumer.”

Stocks extended losses after Fitch said that while lenders in the United States have “manageable direct exposures” to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, further turmoil in those markets poses a “serious risk.” Equities also fell after the Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, said Britain faced a “markedly weaker” outlook for the economy as Europe’s crisis threatened global growth.
539 2011-11-17 “We all learned a hard lesson in July and August, how high these prices can go before customers begin yelling,” said Mark Smith, the chief executive and president of Molycorp, the only American producer of rare earths.

He added that rare earth mining outside China remained very profitable even with the price decline, which has brought the market back to the level of last spring.

The sharp decline in demand and prices outside China could create yet another shortage next year, said Constantine Karayannopoulos, the chief executive of Neo Material Technologies, a Canadian company that has its factories in China.

That is because Chinese exporters are unlikely to use all of their export quotas this year — since demand is down — and the Chinese Commerce Ministry has historically penalized exporters that do not use all of their quotas by giving them smaller quotas the next year.

China mines 94 percent of the rare earth metals in the world. Through 2008, it supplied almost all of the global annual demand outside of China of 50,000 to 55,000 tons. But it cut export quotas to a little more than 30,000 tons last year and again this year and imposed steep export taxes, producing a shortage in the rest of the world.

Together with a two-month Chinese embargo on shipments to Japan during a territorial dispute a year ago, the trade restrictions and shortage resulted in prices outside China reaching as much as 15 times the level within China last winter. That created a big incentive for companies that use rare earths in their products to move factories to China or find alternatives.

Executives spoke at a conference in Hong Kong sponsored by two London companies, Roskill Information Services and Metal Events, that have aimed to stay neutral on the trade and geopolitical issues roiling the industry.

Many Chinese companies have halted production this autumn in a bid to stem the decline in prices, several executives said. The Chinese Commerce Ministry has also blocked companies from exporting at prices that it deems too low, setting a minimum price for cerium exports, for example, of $70 a kilogram.

Chinese exporters are on track to use only 20,000 to 25,000 tons of their quotas this year, setting the stage for lower quotas next year, Mr. Karayannopoulos said.

By comparison, industry estimates now put annual demand outside China at a little under 40,000 tons, in part because of conservation efforts regarding rare earths.

Automakers are finding ways to use less neodymium in the magnets of many cars’ small electric motors. Oil companies are finding ways to use less lanthanum in refining, and industries like electronics and wind turbine manufacturing are finding ways to use less dysprosium.
540 2011-11-17 When the architects of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul flinched from the most effective solution - breaking up the banks so that none would be too big to drag down the financial system - they forced regulators of the derivatives market into a c...
541 2011-11-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
542 2011-11-18 Judge Lippman reminded family court judges that maintaining an open-door policy was critical to ensuring the integrity of the judicial proceedings....
543 2011-11-18 Judge Lippman reminded family court judges that maintaining an open-door policy was critical to ensuring the integrity of the judicial proceedings....
544 2011-11-18 The new film in the vampire saga sucks in $30.25 million....
545 2011-11-18 The new film in the vampire saga sucks in $30.25 million....
546 2011-11-18 The Nissan chief executive was in Manhattan Thursday to discuss how the Japanese automaker had responded to five recent tests, both manmade and natural, of the company's health....
547 2011-11-18 The Nissan chief executive was in Manhattan Thursday to discuss how the Japanese automaker had responded to five recent tests, both manmade and natural, of the company's health....
548 2011-11-18 Joseph F. Skowron had pleaded guilty to avoiding $30 million in trading losses for his Morgan Stanley-owned hedge fund, FrontPoint Partners, by bribing a French doctor to leak him confidential results about clinical drug trials....
549 2011-11-18 Joseph F. Skowron had pleaded guilty to avoiding $30 million in trading losses for his Morgan Stanley-owned hedge fund, FrontPoint Partners, by bribing a French doctor to leak him confidential results about clinical drug trials....
550 2011-11-18 The European Union says the film, meant to show what justice in Afghanistan can mean for women, endangers its subjects and could complicate relations with the Afghan judiciary....
551 2011-11-18 The European Union says the film, meant to show what justice in Afghanistan can mean for women, endangers its subjects and could complicate relations with the Afghan judiciary....
552 2011-11-18 Meet Ukraine's harsh mistress of high fashion....
553 2011-11-18 Meet Ukraine's harsh mistress of high fashion....
554 2011-11-18 Fill in the blanks in several paragraphs in this article from the Business section, "Picking Brand Names in China Is a Business Itself." Use your own words and phrases, or  choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases that were removed....
555 2011-11-18 Fill in the blanks in several paragraphs in this article from the Business section, "Picking Brand Names in China Is a Business Itself." Use your own words and phrases, or choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases that were removed....
556 2011-11-18 The limited-edition muscle cars are equipped with SRT8 powertrains as well as special paint and accessories....
557 2011-11-18 The limited-edition muscle cars are equipped with SRT8 powertrains as well as special paint and accessories....
558 2011-11-18 The winner of the game between Stony Brook and Liberty on Saturday will win the Big South title and advance to the F.C.S. playoffs....
559 2011-11-18 The winner of the game between Stony Brook and Liberty on Saturday will win the Big South title and advance to the F.C.S. playoffs....
560 2011-11-18 The military’s Digital Engagement Team, established in 2008 by the military’s Central Command, is the focus of an article by Thom Shanker and Eric Schmitt of The New York Times. The team’s mission is to “counter extremist ideology, promote...
561 2011-11-18 A team at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida is scanning the Web to counter radical ideology and explain American actions in the Middle East and Central Asia....
562 2011-11-18 It has been described as a heist, the fashion crime of the season: that the spring 2012 collection had been stolen....
563 2011-11-18 It was described as the fashion crime of the season: the spring 2012 collection had been stolen. The truth, according to the police, is slightly less cinematic....
564 2011-11-18 Why are we eating pre-holiday turkey in corporate lunchrooms?...
565 2011-11-18 Why are we eating pre-holiday turkey in corporate lunchrooms?...
566 2011-11-18 Moving to protect a lucrative monopoly against impending competition, Amgen has reached an agreement that will preserve its status as the main supplier of anemia drugs to one of the nation's two large kidney dialysis chains....
567 2011-11-18 Moving to protect a lucrative monopoly against impending competition, Amgen has reached an agreement that will preserve its status as the main supplier of anemia drugs to one of the nation's two large kidney dialysis chains....
568 2011-11-18 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
569 2011-11-18 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
570 2011-11-18 Deutsche Borse and NYSE Euronext announced plans to divest businesses in Europe and open up certain operations to rivals in an effort to win regulatory approval for their proposed $9 billion merger....
571 2011-11-18 Deutsche Börse and NYSE Euronext announced plans to divest businesses in Europe and open up certain operations to rivals in an effort to win regulatory approval for their proposed $9 billion merger....
572 2011-11-18 President Felipe Calderón appointed the head of the national intelligence agency, Alejandro Poiré, as the new interior minister on Thursday, replacing Francisco Blake Mora, who died in a helicopter crash last week. Mr. Poiré, 40, had been the director of the intelligence agency since September and was previously the national security spokesman, where he was the public face of the government’s drug war. As the top domestic security chief, he will now oversee that effort.
573 2011-11-18 Russia is facing a heightened risk of being drawn into conflicts at its borders that have the potential of turning nuclear, the country’s top military officer said Thursday. Gen. Nikolai Makarov, chief of the General Staff of the Russian armed forces, cautioned over NATO’s expansion eastward and warned that the risks of Russia being pulled into local conflicts have “risen sharply.” He added, according to Russian news agencies, that “under certain conditions, local and regional conflicts may develop into a full-scale war involving nuclear weapons.” He specifically referred to NATO’s plans to offer membership to Georgia and Ukraine as potentially threatening Russia’s security.
574 2011-11-18 To counter negative perceptions of their religion, leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints commissioned an advertising campaign highlighting the lives and diversity of regular Mormons. A selection of the videos are below.
575 2011-11-18 The government’s expanding efforts in computer-network warfare, offense and defense are among the most secret enterprises carried out by the military and intelligence community. To counter the adversary’s use of the Internet, American cyberwarriors have hacked into extremist chat rooms to sow confusion, or to inject poisonous code to take down militant Web sites. Sometimes, they choose not to act, but silently track the online movements of jihadists to learn their plans.

In contrast, the Digital Engagement Team operates in total sunshine: all of the online postings carry an official stamp acknowledging sponsorship by Central Command.

The team’s operators “respectfully deflect baseless and often irrational insults, confront adversaries with factual evidence and expose extremist propaganda that might otherwise go unrefuted,” Major Nevers said. “All engagements are transparent and attributable.”

The only obfuscation is the use of online pseudonyms to protect the civilian contract employees from potential retaliation.

Mr. Safavi’s Internet pen name is drawn from a grand Persian dynasty. On a recent morning, he spotted a provocative Persian posting that inspired an energetic thread of responses criticizing the Pentagon’s relationship with a complicated ally, Pakistan, mostly posing theories of Great Game conspiracies pitting spy vs. spy, insurgency vs. military, vs. Islamabad.

The discussion was relevant beyond Mr. Safavi’s native Iran, since there are large Persian-speaking populations in Afghanistan and in its northern neighbor Tajikistan.

“You’ve heard of the Iron Curtain, of course,” Mr. Safavi said. “We’re here to pierce the Electronic Curtain because the military has decided that it cannot cede this information space to violent extremists.”

Mr. Safavi typed up a translated summary of the Internet exchange, which in a matter of minutes had grown to 29 entries read by thousands more. He proposed a response drawn from Pentagon and State Department policy statements: it described shared American and Pakistani security interests, citing as evidence the large number of Pakistanis in security forces who were killed in battles with insurgents within that country’s borders.

Then he sent a message up his chain of command to Major Nevers on a form labeled “Permission to Engage.”

The Digital Engagement Team works in cyberspace but not at network speeds because translation and approval take hours. Yet it has tried to make a virtue of the demands of oversight. If an offending Web posting is spotted in the early morning, the response is online by early afternoon, landing just as computer users across the Middle East resume their Web surfing in the hours between dinner and sleep.

Parallel to these military efforts, the State Department created a strategic counterterrorism communications center whose online analysts and bloggers try to understand what inspires their target audience — men 18 to 30 years old, mostly in the Middle East — to violent extremism, and to find ways to steer them away from that.

“We really want to have an intimate understanding of where they’re coming from, what they’re saying, how they’re saying it, and what drives them,” said Richard LeBaron, a former American ambassador to who is the center’s coordinator.

For the State Department’s Digital Outreach Team, Arabic- and Urdu-speaking analysts engage extremists in online conversations, identifying themselves as representing the government. “The fact they engage with us indicates we’ve hit a nerve,” Mr. LeBaron said. “They often use horribly abusive language, so our folks have to have thick skins.”

Brian Fishman, a counterterrorism analyst at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, said that despite their limitations, these online outreach campaigns were efficient and inexpensive tools in the government’s increasingly holistic approach to combating terrorists, especially as the United States draws down its troops in and Afghanistan.

In many respects, Mr. Fishman said, juxtaposing factual images — videotapes of the hateful preachings of the Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri against the triumphant protests in Tahrir Square in Cairo this year — can be more powerful, and more effective, than any message the government can transmit.

“Just demonstrate the facts and let reality speak for itself,” Mr. Fishman said.

Popular Arabic-language Web sites acknowledge the impact of the Digital Engagement Team. A blogger at www.islamtoday.net wrote late last year that the effort “represents a shift in the style of engagement normally used by Americans with the populations of the region, which usually addresses the elites and the governments in English.”

The blogger acknowledged that the military’s online initiative “is to open a dialogue with readers and Web sites that represent a segment with different interests and opinions,” and that the Central Command postings in “smooth Arabic” were “often very sophisticated.”

Military officers admit that beyond anecdotal feedback, it is hard to measure the program’s impact. Software can tabulate the number of people reading the postings across the foreign-language Web sites where the team engages. But it is impossible to measure whether opinions are changing — and, if so, whether the team is a significant influence, or simply trying to empty the ocean of militancy one thimble at a time.

“What’s most important is that we are engaging in intelligent, honest and forthright discussions,” said Maj. T. G. Taylor, Central Command’s chief of media. “The fact that more and more forums allow us to participate with their audiences is perhaps a more important measure of our communication efforts.”

One recent effort by the Central Command involved answering a chat room query on what had been accomplished by America’s decade-long involvement in Afghanistan. “Afghans today enjoy more political, economic and social rights than at any time in the history of the country,” the Digital Engagement Team wrote back. It added, “The days of public stoning and the beating of women in the streets are over.”
576 2011-11-18 The Boeing Company said Thursday that Indonesia’s Lion Air would sign an agreement to buy 230 new 737-model jetliners with a list value of $21.7 billion, a record transaction for the company.

Lion Air’s commitment consists of 201 of the new 737 MAX models with upgraded engines and 29 extended-range 737-900s, Boeing said. The accord was to be signed Friday in Jakarta as President Obama attends a meeting of Southeast Asian leaders.

“This order is a big deal,” Rob Stallard, an analyst in New York with RBC Capital Markets, wrote on Thursday. “It gives a meaningful boost to Boeing’s backlog and MAX order book.”

The commitments for the 737 MAX are included in the 700 agreements for the new model that the president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, Jim Albaugh, mentioned this week at the Dubai air show. Boeing, based in Chicago, decided in July to upgrade its best-selling plane rather than build a successor and has not yet signed any firm orders for it.

Boeing also said the Aviation Capital Group plans to buy 35 of the 737 MAX models and 20 of the current 737-800, while Singapore Airlines firmed an order for eight 777s valued at $2.4 billion at list prices. Carriers typically receive discounts on large orders.

Lion Air’s agreement, once it is firm, will include purchase rights for 150 more planes, Boeing said. Lion Air, based in Jakarta, flies an all-Boeing fleet consisting of 737 models in different configurations and MD-90 jets, according to the company’s website.

CFM International, the General Electric Company’s venture with Safran SA of France, is the sole provider of engines for the 737, including its new Leap engine on the upgraded 737 MAX. Based on list prices, the Lion Air engine orders are valued at more than $5.3 billion.
577 2011-11-18 “We do know what’s happening in America’s kitchens,” said Mark Addicks, chief marketing officer at General Mills in Golden Valley, Minn., whose brands include Betty Crocker, Big G cereals, Gold Medal, Green Giant, Pillsbury and Yoplait.

For instance, to bolster the Betty Crocker brand, General Mills is stepping up its presence online: at bettycrocker.com; in social media like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube; and on mobile devices, with apps and a mobile Web site, at m.bettycrocker.com.

“We’re trying to play where these new generations of consumers are,” said Geoff Johnson, director for relationship marketing at General Mills, by moving to “push very aggressively on the digital front.”

Betty Crocker has more than 1.4 million fans on facebook.com/bettycrocker, Mr. Johnson said, adding, “We feel awesome about that,” particularly because many “are under age 35.”

And there are “hundreds of thousands of interactions a month through devices” like smartphones, he added, which is “blowing away our forecast.”

There are also promotional efforts aimed at keeping the brand in the spotlight. They include publicizing the Betty 10, a list of 10 “red hot holiday trends” that include “double desserts” like pumpkin pie cookies; publishing a new edition of “The Betty Crocker Cookbook,” with accompanying apps, e-books and an online presence, at bettycrocker.com/BCcookbook; and promoting the 90th anniversary of the Betty Crocker brand character, introduced in 1921 by a General Mills predecessor, Washburn Crosby.

The character and brand remain “highly, highly relevant,” Mr. Addicks said, because they are perceived by consumers as “authentic, relatable and helpful.”

To underline that, he pointed to sales of Betty Crocker baking products. In the fiscal first quarter for General Mills, which ran from June through August, those sales increased 5 percent from the same period a year ago. “We’re very excited with what we’re seeing,” Mr. Addicks said.

Another General Mills brand, Pillsbury, is also wooing shoppers planning their holiday menus. A campaign carrying the theme “Holiday ideas made easy” is getting under way on television, online and in social media like Facebook, where the Pillsbury fan page, at facebook.com/pillsbury, has more than 1.3 million likes.

“Holiday is our biggest time of year,” said Liz Nordlie, vice president for marketing for Pillsbury refrigerated baked goods at General Mills, “whether you’re preparing for the high-stakes Thanksgiving dinner or looking for ideas for parties or even, on that lazy Saturday morning, you want a warm sweet roll to enjoy with your family.”

The campaign is an evolution of ads that Pillsbury introduced in 2008, which carried the theme “Home is calling.” It includes commercials, in lengths of 15 and 60 seconds, that present the Pillsbury Doughboy character helping a family prepare a Christmas dinner chockablock with products like Pillsbury Crescent dinner rolls, pie crust and Grands cinnamon rolls.

The campaign also includes a section of the Pillsbury Web site, at memoriesmadeeasy.pillsbury.com, where visitors will be able to upload photographs to create personalized versions of the 60-second commercial.

“The ‘Home is calling’ campaign did a fabulous job connecting with consumers emotionally,” Ms. Nordlie said.

“Our new campaign builds on that, but tries to more directly speak to the products and the benefits of the products,” she added, by “showing how easy it is to make our products and how convenient they can be.”

“As a marketer, you can get assumptive,” Ms. Nordlie said. “Sometimes you need to take a step back and get back to basics, the basics of your products.” That is particularly true with younger consumers, she added, for whom “we have to do more to introduce our products and show how they can fit into their lives.”

Despite the economic cross-currents, “our business is in a good place,” Ms. Nordlie said. “This is our key time of year, but our products have appeal year-round.”
578 2011-11-18 Last year, eight quarterbacks threw more than 500 passes, many of them quick screens that traveled no farther than an option pitch. Keenum has thrown 376 passes this year, with two regular-season games left to play. He attempted 700 passes in 2009. Wuerffel left college fifth on the career pass attempts list. He currently ranks 45th.

Houston Coach Kevin Sumlin was an assistant at Purdue when the Boilermakers, led by quarterback Drew Brees, became one of the first Big Ten teams to embrace a pass-oriented spread offense.

“People said that it would not work in cold weather and it would not work at a major program,” Sumlin said of an offensive philosophy that was then associated with midmajor programs. Brees started for three years, threw more than 43 passes per game in his most productive seasons and went on to become an All-Pro in the N.F.L. Still, Brees’s career yardage total (11,792) is less than two-thirds of Keenum’s total. Brees ranked ninth in career yardage when he left college. He now ranks 42nd.

Sumlin noted that offenses had gotten much faster since he was at Purdue; Houston’s use of the no-huddle offense enables Keenum to take more snaps per game than Brees ever could.

“Our goal is to go as fast as possible without hurting ourselves,” Sumlin said. “We aim for 90, 100 plays per game. That way, we can screw up 45 of them and still have 45 good ones.”

The Cougars ran 83 plays in a 73-17 victory over Tulane on Saturday, despite protecting a lead for most of the game. More plays means more passes, meaning more opportunities to smash records.

It takes an experienced quarterback to master a no-huddle, wide-open offense. College coaches have found that even freshmen arrive with plenty of experience with those types of schemes. Some prep and Pop Warner offenses even have similar terminology to that used at the collegiate level.

“The level of sophistication among these players is a lot higher than it was seven or eight years ago,” he said.

Many of his recruits come from high school programs that run spread offenses, and nearly all of the quarterbacks and receivers have played in 7-on-7 summer leagues. “The skill position guys have the opportunity to play year-round,” he said. “They learn so much about understanding coverages, space and man-zone principles.”

As a result, they are ready to run college offenses as freshmen or sophomores, giving them several years to chase records.

Records are not created by trends, of course, but by players good enough to set most of those trends. Keenum was one of the nation’s top quarterbacks in 2009, but he tore his A.C.L. three games into the 2010 season. The N.C.A.A. granted him a sixth season of eligibility — he redshirted behind the current Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kevin Kolb as a freshman — and Keenum endured a painful rehabilitation process to return this season.

He has led the Cougars to three bowl games and is considered a midround pro prospect, impressive for a player who was lightly recruited and whom only Houston offered an athletic scholarship.

Sumlin said that he looked for three attributes in a quarterback: accuracy; game management, which he described as the ability to make smart down-and-distance decisions; and playmaking, or the ability to make something out of nothing.

“When you get two out of the three, you have a pretty special quarterback,” he said. “We have three out of three with Case.”

Keenum’s records may be safe for a few seasons. Oklahoma’s Landry Jones has a year of eligibility left but is thousands of yards behind Keenum, and few freshmen are getting the start they need this season to chase records in a few years. Keenum and the Cougars face Southern Methodist on Saturday. He then has another regular-season game, and then probably a conference championship game and a bowl appearance to put some extra distance between himself and the future competition.

Somewhere, however, there is a high school star who plays football 12 months a year, a coach perfecting a new way to use a screen pass as a long handoff and a seventh grader running an offense that would make Spurrier blush.
579 2011-11-18 What do you call a spy who may be the best actor in the world? Bovril (a brand of beef extract) doesn’t quite sing, though the British handlers of Juan Pujol García used it before settling on the more apt Garbo.

Pujol, a Barcelona bourgeois, offered his services to the Germans in World War II (to them he was Arabel), and fed them a steady stream of false information, gathered from a network of spies — all invented. The British were cautious, but they eventually took Pujol on too. As Garbo he contributed to making D-Day a success, helping convince the Nazis that the Normandy invasion was a feint, with the real action still to come in Pas-de-Calais.

Edmon Roch has a great story to tell in “Garbo the Spy,” and he recounts it with the flair of a Hollywood spy movie: “Garbo” is dramatic, entertaining, even funny in parts. Mr. Roch uses talking heads (though doesn’t reveal their identities right away) and lots of film footage, including clips from old movies like “Our Man in Havana” (Pujol was probably Graham Greene’s inspiration for the novel), “Pimpernel Smith” (with Leslie Howard) and “Patton.” The point is well taken: Pujol created fictions, and the story of his derring-do often seems like fiction — something out of a spy movie, and one that strains credibility at that.

Mr. Roch takes a few missteps, especially in his use of music, which gives parts of “Garbo” an MTV-ish air. But mostly he gets things right in this story of the double agent who, remarkably, was decorated by both the Germans and the British.
580 2011-11-18 There are many impressive things about “Kommilitonen!,” the new opera by Peter Maxwell Davies, with a libretto by David Pountney, which had its American premiere at the Juilliard School on Wednesday night. Best of all is Mr. Davies’s exhilarating score. Here, for once, is a modern opera that exudes musical modernism. The spirited conductor Anne Manson drew an incisive, colorful performance of this demanding score from the Juilliard Orchestra.

In Europe operas with comparably spiky atonal scores are routine. But there seems to be a widespread assumption among the managers of American companies that the best way to entice audiences to new works is to recruit composers who write musically accessible operas: harmonically bland and cloyingly lyrical, however contemporary the subject matter.

Mr. Davies was a major figure in the European avant-garde. Over the years he may have softened the hard edges of his modernist language. But at 77 he still writes bracingly gritty and complex music.

“Kommilitonen!,” which loosely translates from the German as “fellow students,” is an exploration of political activism and protest movements that entwines three stories based on real people. One concerns the black student James Meredith, who in 1962, in the face of violent opposition, compelled the segregated University of Mississippi to enroll him. Another focuses on two Chinese students caught up in the Cultural Revolution, who were forced to denounce their parents, dedicated schoolteachers. The final story involves a brother and sister in Nazi Germany who joined the White Rose resistance movement but were caught and executed.

The opera, a joint project developed by the Royal Academy of Music in London and the Juilliard School, received its premiere in London in March. In his many dramatic works and unconventional operas, Mr. Davies has excelled at putting contemporary-music techniques to arresting theatrical purposes. “Kommilitonen!” opens with a fidgety fanfare. On the surface the music is brash and brassy; the fractured rhythms and pointed harmonies rattle you.

The music continues in that vein. In a ruminative aria for James Meredith, the churning orchestra blends pentatonic phrases from a spiritual into subdued, restless atonal harmonies. Above it, Meredith sings in recitativelike lines that hug the words and avoid lyrical effusions. Yet it comes across as a character-defining aria, especially as sung here by Will Liverman, a mellow-voiced and charismatic baritone.
581 2011-11-18 All that has been written since the death of Steve Jobs last month is a reminder of how passionate modern consumers can be about the things we buy and how fascinated we are by the people who make and sell them. The appeal of those Apple gadgets — so sleek and logical, so cool and friendly and flattering to whoever picks them up — is obvious enough, but the exact nature of Mr. Jobs’s contribution has been harder to specify. Was he a visionary innovator or, as Malcolm Gladwell recently argued in The New Yorker, a tireless “tweaker” of the inventions of others? Was he primarily a designer, an engineer, a computer nerd or an artist? A benevolent guru or the center of a cult of personality?

Similar questions circulate through “Eames: The Architect and the Painter,” a lively new documentary by Jason Cohn and Bill Jersey. The subjects are Charles and Ray Eames, a married couple (sometimes thought to be brothers because of their names) whose approach to product design and the presentation of information was in its way as influential as Mr. Jobs’s. Their name is still most commonly associated with the chairs sold by the Herman Miller company, but the film argues that their characteristic mix of the practical and the aesthetic has left traces in nearly every aspect of contemporary life.

Charles Eames was trained as an architect. Ray Eames, his second wife, was an artist, and together they ran a design studio in Venice, Calif., that was a hive of creativity. Charles arrived there in the 1940s from Michigan, and his migration from the industrial Midwest to Southern California was part of a larger cultural and aesthetic shift. The house that he and Ray built in Pacific Palisades, with its simple, boxy shapes; abundant light; and whimsical ornaments was a domestic temple for a new, less austere kind of Modernism, one that joined a streamlined, functional, practical style with bright colors and pleasing shapes.

Their motto was “the best for the least for the most” — a characteristically pithy statement of a utopian ideal of capitalist mass production. The idea that striking design and sound craftsmanship could be available to everyone has an obvious democratic charm, but it also contains a paradox. The Eameses, who had long-lasting contracts with Westinghouse, I.B.M. and other large corporations, were selling the notion that individualism could not only coexist with commercial standardization, but that idiosyncratic expression could also flourish within the collective rituals of consumption. The stuff you buy, if it’s the right stuff, is part of what makes you what you are.

Their own eccentricity turned out to be a great asset. Charles, tall and tousle-haired with a trademark bow tie and a professorial air, was both awkward and charismatic. Ray, with her bangs and old-fashioned dresses, is described by one colleague as “a delicious little dumpling.” Together they look, in archival footage, captivatingly odd, and they seem to have captured the loyalty of a great many talented young designers, who look back fondly, if sometimes incredulously, at the long years spent working at the studio.
582 2011-11-18 We’re accustomed to looking at Picasso through his models, who were usually also his lovers. But we tend not to identify the women in Matisse. They’re anonymous nudes, or half-dressed odalisques, or just part of the decoration.

Yet they had extraordinary power over him, as is clear from the 46-piece gallery show “Matisse and the Model.” It takes to heart Matisse’s words from a 1939 essay, “I depend entirely on my model, whom I observe at liberty, and then I decide on the pose which best suits her nature.” He continued, “And then I become the slave of that pose.”

The exhibition looks overdesigned, with its color-blocked walls and sometimes pointless wall texts (“the human face has always greatly interested me”). And it lacks a truly major painting, along the lines of “Portrait of Olga Meerson” or “The Italian Woman” (both reproduced in the catalog). But its array of drawings, sculptures and small paintings matches faces and bodies with names and personalities.

There was an Italian we know only as Lorette, a young Anjelica Huston type with long dark hair and high cheekbones. There was the Nice teenager and clotheshorse Antoinette Arnoud, who piled on the frippery for “Woman in a Flowered Hat.” There was the dancer and musician Henriette Darricarrère, slouching around the sultry Moroccan-themed interiors in her striped pantaloons. And there were, first and last, women who were more than models: his wife, Amélie, and daughter, Marguerite, who posed for his early paintings, and his devoted assistant, Lydia Delectorskaya.

Not all of the models who captivated Matisse were made of flesh and blood. His obsession with Michelangelo’s “Night,” a sculpture at the Medici Chapel in Florence, resulted in the marvelous “Large Seated Nude.” (There are several versions, one of which is at MoMA.) While working on this athletic, androgynous figure, he wrote to a fellow artist, “Forgive me, I’ve been completely ensnared by a woman.”
583 2011-11-18 By contrast, Mr. Monti said Italians could expect to make sacrifices in the months ahead, but pledged that those sacrifices would be fair, and evenly spread. Such measures would involve changes to the labor market and welfare benefits, and to Italy’s lopsided pension and fiscal systems.

Addressing what he called a fundamental cause of Italy’s low growth, he said the government would work to grant young people and women greater access to the workplace. “They are the two great wasted resources of the country,” he said.

He said the government would work to restore market confidence in Italy in the short term and to invest in structural changes that would help in the longer term, including changes to what he called Italy’s “inequitable” pension system.

“We need to focus on three pillars: fiscal rigor, economic growth and social fairness,” Mr. Monti said.

To spur growth, he said Italy must deregulate closed professional guilds, opening them to competition, as well as improve the efficiency of public sector services.

Striking a statesmanlike tone, Mr. Monti also said that because citizens were being asked to sacrifice, cuts to the costs of elected officials as well as public administration would be “unavoidable.”

He also indicated that to bring Italy more in line with European norms, his government would probably have to reintroduce a property tax on first homes, a tax that had been scrapped by Mr. Berlusconi’s government.

Mr. Monti also pledged to fight Italy’s vast underground economy, which he said was estimated to be worth a fifth of the annual gross domestic product, and to tackle tax evasion, a task that he said would lead to the reduction of fiscal pressure on businesses and fixed-income employees and pensioners.

Mr. Monti did not try to sanitize the challenges facing Italy. Growth has lagged for a decade, he said, youth unemployment is higher than in other European countries, and the disparity between the wealthier north and the poorer south has narrowed only slightly.

Markets have been hammering Italy in recent weeks, driving up borrowing costs to levels that have caused other euro zone countries to seek bailouts, on concerns about Italy’s longer-term ability to repay its enormous debts.

Mr. Berlusconi was forced to resign on Sunday when it became clear last week that international investors had lost confidence in his government’s ability to push through reforms demanded by the European Union. Mr. Monti was recruited to replace him in record time, and on Wednesday, President Giorgio Napolitano swore in the new government, which consists mostly of academics, bankers and top-level civil servants, all experts in their fields.

“He gave a political framework,” said Stefano Folli, a political commentator for the daily business newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.

Mr. Folli said Mr. Monti’s message was that “Italians will have to make fairly serious sacrifices, but that those will be compensated for by a government that wants to restore a sense of the state and trust in institutions.”

While respected abroad, the Monti government is more problematic internally, where many factions in Parliament, most notably the one led by Mr. Berlusconi, speak of it as an imposition born of financial markets more than democratic processes.

In his speech, Mr. Monti reiterated that his government had not subverted the role of politics. Instead, he said that he hoped its apolitical nature would help Parliament regain a measure of concord after a particularly tumultuous period and “reconcile citizens and institutions to politics.”
584 2011-11-18 Opening statements were scheduled for Monday in the trial in which Ms. Ieng Thirith was a defendant, along with three other former members of the top leadership.

The court’s ruling severed her from the case even though a possible appeal may be pending, said Clair Duffy, who has observed the trial for the Open Society Justice Initiative, a private legal and human rights group.

Ms. Ieng Thirith was charged with crimes against humanity, genocide, homicide and other crimes for what the indictment said was her role in “planning, direction, coordination and ordering of widespread purges.”

In a statement on Thursday, the court said that while it acknowledged the gravity of the crimes for which Ms. Ieng Thirith was charged, she “lacks capacity to understand proceedings against her or to meaningfully participate in her own defense.”

She had appeared agitated and combative during pretrial hearings.

During a 20-minute tirade in February 2009, Ms. Ieng Thirith shouted at the judges, “Don’t accuse me of murder, otherwise you will be cursed to the seventh level of hell.”

In ordering her release, the court said prosecutors could create a mechanism to periodically monitor her health once she was free, with the possibility that she could be rearrested if her condition improved. The court said that her dementia was consistent with Alzheimer’s disease.

In a June 24 medical report to the court, a geriatric expert from New Zealand, A. John Campbell, said that she was disoriented and had difficulty with memory and that the medical workers who attended to her said she could be “bad tempered.” He said that she sometimes lost her way inside the small detention center and that she sometimes talked to herself, “usually about the past and her youth.”

Until her arrest in November 2007, she had been living in a villa in downtown Phnom Penh with her husband, Ieng Sary, 86, the former Khmer Rouge foreign minister, who is a co-defendant.

One of her lawyers, Diana Ellis, said in an e-mail that plans for Ms. Ieng Thirith’s future “have yet to be finalized.” The only conditions set by the court on Thursday were that she “refrain from interfering in the administration of justice,” including interference with potential witnesses.

Along with Mr. Ieng Sary, the remaining defendants are Nuon Chea, 85, the party’s chief ideologue, and Khieu Samphan, 80, the head of state. Pol Pot died in 1998 without being tried.

Mr. Nuon Chea also sought to be released for health reasons, claiming that he was not able to concentrate for long periods. But he was found fit to stand trial last week, according to the court spokesman, Lars Olsen.

If it proceeds, the release of Ms. Ieng Thirith will be the latest setback for the tribunal, which has been tarnished by accusations of corruption, political interference by the Cambodian government and lax oversight by the United Nations.

The tribunal has suffered delays since it began its work in 2005, along with soaring costs that are expected to reach $150 million by the end of the year.

Five members of the legal office resigned in the spring in protest over inaction by the investigating judges. Last month, one of the investigating judges, Siegfried Blunk from Germany, resigned, citing political interference by the Cambodian government.

The Open Society Justice Initiative, which is based in New York, called on the United Nations to formally investigate the accusations of judicial misconduct and political interference in the trials.

In her angry outburst in 2009, Ms. Ieng Thirith brushed aside her lawyer, who urged her to sit down, declaring, “I have never been a murderer” and blaming Mr. Nuon Chea and Duch for the killings.

Appearing distraught over the charges against her, she said: “I come from a well-bred family. My grandfather was a school principal. And my father was a school principal.”

As a young woman, Ms. Ieng Thirith was one of the most brilliant scholars of her day, along with her elder sister, Khieu Ponnary.

The sisters moved to Paris, where Khieu Ponnary studied Khmer linguistics, and Ms. Ieng Thirith, then known as Khieu Thirith, studied English literature with a focus on Shakespeare.

Ms. Khieu Thirith married and took the family name of Mr. Ieng Sary in Paris in 1951, where he was one of a group of radical Cambodian students together with Pol Pot. After returning to Cambodia, Ms. Khieu Ponnary married Pol Pot, who was several years younger than she was.

Before the Khmer Rouge took power in 1975, Ms. Khieu Ponnary became mentally ill and Pol Pot later remarried. She died in 2003.

As her sister’s mind faded, Ms. Ieng Thirith became the de facto “first lady” of the revolution, according to Elizabeth Becker, one of the few Western journalists to visit the closed nation during the Khmer Rouge rule.
585 2011-11-18 LONDON — Adding new pressures on Tehran over its disputed nuclear program, the head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog group said Thursday that he wanted to send a high-level mission to Iran to investigate a report by his agency that Iranian scientists had engaged in secret and possibly continuing efforts to construct a nuclear weapon.

Yukiya Amano, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, was addressing the agency’s 35-member board of governors at the start of a closed, two-day meeting at the group’s headquarters in Vienna.

The gathering is trying to formulate a resolution reprimanding Iran and seeking greater clarity about its nuclear intentions while avoiding language that would prevent support from China and Russia — two nations that have frequently differed with the West over Iran.

The Associated Press quoted diplomats as calling the resolution a compromise that would express "serious concern" over Iran’s defiance of the United Nations Security Council and the energy agency board.

While avoiding any talk of an ultimatum or deadline, a draft of the resolution also spoke of “deep and increasing concern about the unresolved issues regarding the Iranian nuclear program, including those which need to be clarified to exclude the existence of possible military dimensions,” The A.P. said.

Mr. Amano said he had written to Fereydoon Abbasi, the head of Iran’s atomic energy agency, on Nov. 2 to suggest the visit. “I hope a suitable date can be agreed soon,” he said. “It is essential that any such mission should be well planned and that it should address the issues contained in my report.”
586 2011-11-18 The New York sculptor Tom Otterness may be known for his whimsical and warm sculptures of animals and cartoon-like characters, but in San Francisco, a lurid act from his past has come back to haunt him.      Earlier this year the sculptor was comm...
587 2011-11-18 LOVE--Howard McClintic Howard M. Love, known to his friends as "Pete", an extraordinary business man and civic leader, died at his home in Pittsburgh, PA on Wednesday, November 16 of Parkinson's disease. He was 81 years old. He attended Phillips E...
588 2011-11-19 Police use of pepper spray on protesters at University of California, Davis, on Friday sparked an investigation and calls for the chancellor to resign....
589 2011-11-19 Police use of pepper spray on protesters at University of California, Davis, on Friday sparked an investigation and calls for the chancellor to resign....
590 2011-11-19 Readers comment on my column suggesting that the Occupy protesters "occupy the agenda"...
591 2011-11-19 Readers comment on my column suggesting that the Occupy protesters "occupy the agenda"...
592 2011-11-19 Trip Payne unchecks himself. Not that there's anything wrong with that....
593 2011-11-19 Trip Payne unchecks himself. Not that there's anything wrong with that....
594 2011-11-19 The shakeup in the top 10 continued, as Oregon lost to U.S.C. on a missed field goal and Oklahoma lost to Baylor on a last-second touchdown....
595 2011-11-19 Bill Pennington and Zach Hillesland will be reporting on all of the day's action in college football. Check back throughout the day for updates and analysis, to ask questions or to give us your observations, whether from your couch or from the ble...
596 2011-11-19 European protests spread to Paris, oil flows returned in Libya, Occupy Wall Street lost its Zuccotti Park home and an REI is coming to Manhattan....
597 2011-11-19 Former Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko asked international medical organizations on Friday to help examine and treat her worsening health conditions. Ms. Tymoshenko, who is serving a seven-year jail sentence on charges widely seen as politically motivated, says she is suffering from severe back pain and from mysterious bruises on her body. She says she does not trust government-appointed doctors and has accused the authorities of refusing to let her see independent doctors. “Tymoshenko’s life is in danger,” said Oleksandr Turchynov, her top aide. “A sick person is being tortured.”
598 2011-11-19 Jon B. Lovelace, an early leader in the mutual fund industry who helped turn his firm, the Capital Group, into one of the largest money management companies in the nation, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 84.

His family announced the death, saying he had been ill for some time.

Mr. Lovelace’s father, Jonathan Bell Lovelace, founded the Capital Group in Los Angeles in 1931 during the Depression. He had pulled the bulk of his money out of the stock market not long before it crashed in 1929.

Jon Lovelace guided the firm as it expanded to rival giants like Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group. Today it oversees more than $1 trillion in more than 40 funds, selling them under the name American Funds.

Mr. Lovelace’s unassuming nature infused much of the Capital Group’s culture. The firm does not trumpet its returns publicly. It avoids trendy investment products in favor of a buy-and-hold philosophy. And its American Funds brand came to be known in the industry as “the biggest money managers you’ve never heard of.”

“He embodied the culture,” said James Rothenberg, the Capital Group’s nonexecutive chairman.

Mr. Lovelace developed a flexible multimanager system that became the core of the firm’s style. Rather than relying on an individual manager or a small team, the typical Capital Group fund has seven to nine managers, each of whom runs a piece of the portfolio.

The structure has allowed the Capital Group to avoid the fate of other firms that have suffered when they lost a star manager or received a sudden influx of money.

“In a world that’s become very short-term-oriented, this is an investment organization that took a long-term view,” said Don Phillips, the president of fund research for Morningstar.
599 2011-11-19 Our topic for today is: Where do the Republican candidates for president get their money?

The personal finances of the presidential hopefuls are important for two reasons. One is that we’re talking about people who aspire to the most prestigious and important job the nation has to offer. The other is that these folks seem to have done really, really well. Perhaps, they can offer career tips.

Remember when claimed that the giant paid him $300,000 for his advice “as a historian?” Thousands of young history majors who were resigned to a future in which they would pad out their $2,000-a-semester salaries as part-time adjunct lecturers with fulfilling careers in bartending suddenly were engulfed with new hope.

Unfortunately, it turned out that Newt’s income actually comes from running think tanks that help promote the corporate clients’ goals in the public sector. That may be a little harder for the youth of America to put their heads around. But, kids, if anybody asks you what you want to be when you grow up, say: policy guru.

Gingrich wants everyone to understand that he does not lobby. Really, whatever the exact legal definition of lobbying is, that is something he did not do. The Gingrich Group got what turns out to be about $1.6 million to not-lobby for Freddie Mac, one of a long, long list of clients. Let’s all pause to recall the high dudgeon with which Gingrich announced, during one of the debates, that Representative ought to be put in jail for being “close to” Freddie Mac lobbyists. What kind of politician demands that an elected official be incarcerated for hanging out with the same people who are paying said politician $1.6 million or so to not-lobby?

This is an unusually delusional presidential field. ’s greatest political asset is that he doesn’t seem to actually believe it when he says he’s been consistent on matters like or . Thank God there’s at least one guy on the stage who knows he’s fibbing.

Romney is the richest person running for president, worth somewhere between $190 million and $250 million. Most of that came from his work at Bain Capital, a firm that bought up troubled companies and gave them makeovers. Although many people lost their jobs when Bain Capital reeled in their employers, Romney’s work did create a lot of new value. Which, on occasion, Bain Capital walked away with, leaving the remnants of the company flopping helplessly on the beach.
600 2011-11-19 Mr. Scliar said Chevron employees could face prison terms of several years if they were found to be have violated environmental laws. He said he would request testimony next week from several Chevron employees.

Responding to Mr. Scliar’s assertions, Kurt Glaubitz, a spokesman for Chevron, said Friday in a statement: “We are working with all appropriate agencies to resolve the issue. We have provided all available resources to manage the situation.”

Mr. Glaubitz said that Chevron had “accommodated all requests for information in a timely manner,” and that the “situation is largely resolved.” He said that Chevron was told by Petrobras, the national oil company and Chevron’s partner in the affected area, the Frade field, of the spill on Nov. 8, and that Chevron found oil seeping from the ocean floor the next day.

Several Brazilian government entities monitoring the spill, including the National Petroleum Agency, said Friday in a statement that Chevron had achieved a “substantial reduction” of the oil seepage in recent days.

Mr. Glaubitz said that the volume of the sheen on Friday was estimated at about 18 barrels.

Earlier in the week, Chevron estimated that the spill involved 400 to 650 barrels of oil from its Frade field, in waters about 3,800 deep. (The BP oil spill involved nearly five million barrels.) Mr. Glaubitz said Chevron was planning to conduct an internal investigation, and would cooperate fully with the authorities.

Marina Silva, a former environment minister and presidential candidate, said in a telephone interview that the spill served as a warning as Brazil moved ahead with exceedingly complex projects to produce oil from its “pre-salt” discoveries, beneath waters almost 10,000 feet deep and thick layers of salt, sand and rock.

“This event is a three-dimensional alert to the problems that may occur,” Ms. Silva said. “This certainly does not smell good.”

Despite Chevron’s assertions that the problem was contained, it faced mounting criticism from various other quarters in Brazil. Legislators said they would summon Chevron officials to appear for questioning. And here in Rio, where Brazil’s energy industry is largely based around Petrobras, activists from Greenpeace emptied black ink on Friday in front of Chevron’s headquarters to protest the spill.

Carlos Minc, the top environmental official for the state of Rio de Janeiro, said the spill was “much bigger” than Chevron’s estimates.

Speaking on the Globo television network, Mr. Minc said that the authorities would “demand compensation” for any damage done to fishing or wildlife.

Several Brazilian news media reports referred to information from SkyTruth, an environmental group in the United States that uses satellite images to track oil spills and other accidents. John Amos, the group’s president, said he estimated that the spill was perhaps 10 times larger than Chevron’s estimates, meaning it extended over about 918 square miles.
601 2011-11-19 Why is that people with felony convictions can regain the right to own a gun but cannot live in public housing, get food stamps or vote? What does that say about our priorities?

Right now, thousands of people are struggling to get their footing in this terrible economy, when it is even harder than usual to get a job with a criminal record. Our public policies should focus on helping people who get out of prison to earn a living and participate in the civic life of the nation instead of catering to the gun lobby.

The writer is a former Soros justice fellow.
602 2011-11-19 LOS ANGELES — James A. Ray, the self-help guru who was found guilty of negligent homicide in the deaths of three followers in a botched sweat lodge ceremony in Arizona, was sentenced to two years in prison on Friday.

A judge in Yavapai County Superior Court in Camp Verde, Ariz., sentenced Mr. Ray to three two-year sentences, to run concurrently. He was also ordered to pay more than $57,000 in restitution.

Mr. Ray, a motivational speaker and author, had faced a maximum of nine years in prison after he was found guilty in June in the deaths of Kirby Brown, 38, of Westtown, N.Y.; James Shore, 40, of Milwaukee; and Liz Neuman, 49, of Prior Lake, Minn.

The case stemmed from an October 2009 ceremony at a retreat near Sedona, Ariz., where hot stones were piled into the middle of a sweltering makeshift tent. Some who took part in the ceremony, which was intended to push people to conquer their limitations, said Mr. Ray ignored signs that some of the participants were falling ill from the heat about halfway through the planned two-hour experience.

In addition to the three deaths, more than a dozen other participants were taken to the hospital after the ceremony.
603 2011-11-19 Moving to protect a lucrative monopoly against impending competition, Amgen has reached an agreement that will preserve its status as the main supplier of anemia drugs to one of the nation’s two large kidney dialysis chains.

The dialysis chain, DaVita, agreed that Amgen’s drug, Epogen, will account for at least 90 percent of its purchases of that type of anemia drug through the end of 2018. DaVita will get discounts and rebates on the drug, Amgen said in a regulatory filing Friday morning.

Amgen has had a monopoly on providing this type of anemia drug to American dialysis clinics since 1989, when Epogen was approved. Sales have been about $2.5 billion annually, though they are now declining because of safety concerns and a change in how Medicare pays for dialysis.

The new contract comes as Amgen might finally face competition. Affymax, a Silicon Valley biotechnology company, has a drug that will come up for a review by a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee on Dec. 7 and might be approved early next year. The Japanese drug maker Takeda would help sell it. And by 2015 or so, companies should be able to introduce near-generic versions of Epogen.

Amgen apparently decided to help lock up sales to DaVita, which treats about one-third of American patients on dialysis. And DaVita apparently decided to leverage the impending competition to get itself a better deal.
604 2011-11-19 But Fish will always have this: an unexpected place in the lineup with the game’s heavyweights after never finishing higher than 16th in the year-end rankings in his first 11 seasons on tour.

“Andy kept telling me just to relax and not look at the standings and just play,” Fish said of Roddick. “He kept telling me, ‘You’re fine, you’re fine.’ And I said: ‘Dude. You played it eight times, shut up, you can easily say that.”’

Fish secured the 8th and final spot in Paris during the last regular tour event of the year, but Roddick won’t be with him. Roddick dropped out of the top 10 this season and will miss the year-end championships for the first time since 2002.

Out of respect and amity for Roddick, Fish has been tempering his public delight at becoming the top-ranked American for months.

“I got better at it as the summer went on,” Fish said. “It’s an uncomfortable position when you bring up Andy and you bring up James Blake. These are guys that have been ahead of me my entire career and then just a month into it, I’m supposed to say I’m better than them now. That wasn’t it. Andy is the alpha male of our generation.”

“I didn’t want to jump out there and act like I was the best player when I wasn’t,” he added, “and I would rather err on the side that I was erring on than go the other way.”

But this is clearly a meaningful moment for Fish, the son of a tennis coach, whom Mardy calls a “big tennis geek” for his interest in all levels of the game. His son has the gene, too, it seems.

“He will watch and follow every result around the world,” Nainkin said. “He’ll watch tapes of other matches, he’ll watch tapes of himself, of his opponents. He’ll even watch tapes of the guy he’s going to practice with in the morning. I’d say that is pretty unique.”

Fish has long had one of the sweetest two-handed backhands and purest service motions on tour, but he has broadened his range, both in terms of court coverage and tactics, since changing his diet and dropping 30 pounds, or 13 kilograms, before the 2010 season.

“He was soft, he was soft around the belly, but more than that, he was just soft in the way he went about things,” said Patrick McEnroe, the former U.S. Davis Cup captain who is now general manager of player development at the U.S.T.A. and one of Fish’s biggest supporters.

“He was like one of those N.B.A. players who get a big contract — a lot bigger than tennis players, by the way — and that just get soft and just kind of go through the motions and rely on their talent,” he added.

“ So one night, they’ll have a 26-point night and the next night they’ll be tired and score four. That was sort of Mardy. He had the ability to step up and play with the great players, but he couldn’t sustain it because he hadn’t really put the work in physically and mentally.”

Fish doesn’t disagree: “I was too satisfied at times with my results, and I’d basically go away for months at a time.”

He has yet to get past the quarterfinals in a Grand Slam event, reaching the final eight at the 2008 U.S. Open and at Wimbledon this year. But he has been a much steadier force in the last two seasons, and though he is carrying a hamstring injury into the World Tour Finals and is in the same round-robin group with Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and the in-form Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, those close to him say his 30th birthday next month won’t mark the end of his surge.

His marriage in 2008 has been a factor in his late-career surge. So is the structure that he has found at the U.S.T.A. National Training Center in California the last three years.

In Paris, he continually used the pronoun “we” to describe his success in 2011, and it will be a collective effort in London, too. Fish plans to bring in his parents, his wife and her parents, and Rodney Marshall, the strength coach who helped him recover from knee surgery in 2008.

Of his spot in London, he said: “You can’t take it for granted, and I’ll certainly hope to get back next year. But I’ll take this one like it will be my only one.”
605 2011-11-19 The worst week for stocks in two months ended with traders mostly sitting it out Friday as they waited for politicians in Europe and the United States to tackle festering debt problems.

The Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index were little changed, and the Nasdaq index fell.

Friday’s market showed more exhaustion than relief as Europe remained investors’ primary worry. Stocks found support after Italian and Spanish bond yields fell as a result of buying by the European Central Bank.

In the United States, doubts grew over whether a bipartisan committee could come up next week with budget cuts and tax increases that Congress could agree on.

Financial shares, which have been among the most sensitive to euro zone financial strains, rose on Friday. The S.& P. financial index was up 0.5 percent. Morgan Stanley shares edged up 0.6 percent to $14.21 but fell more than 13 percent this week.
606 2011-11-19 For Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the decision to reregister her party and compete in elections in the military-backed system represents a historic shift. Known globally as a symbol of endurance in the face of dictatorship, she has spent most of her 23 years in politics battling the country’s generals, much of that time in prison or under house arrest. Now she is joining the system they created.

The civilian government that took power in March is dominated by former generals, including President Thein Sein. It has sought to liberalize Myanmar’s moribund economy and pushed the country toward a more open political system, wooing Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in a carefully choreographed rapprochement.

In announcing Mrs. Clinton’s plans to visit, Mr. Obama cited “flickers of progress” in the country. The United States, he said, remains concerned about human rights abuses, the persecution of democratic reformers and brutality toward ethnic minorities.

But he hailed policies by Mr. Thein Sein as leading the country “on the path toward reform.” He cited the government’s cooperation with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the release of political prisoners and the relaxation of media restrictions. “These are the most important steps toward reform in Burma that we’ve seen in years,” Mr. Obama said.

The subtext is that Myanmar has unexpectedly become a kind of diplomatic prize for the United States, which is eager to show its traditional allies in Asia, including , , Australia, the Philippines and , that it is no longer distracted by the wars in and and that it is advancing democratic interests, promoting free-market economic reform and counterbalancing the power of authoritarian China.

While Mr. Obama traveled to Australia to seal an arrangement to base Marines there, Mrs. Clinton signed a declaration with the Philippines on the deck of an American destroyer that called for disputes over maritime claims in the South China Sea to be settled through a “multilateral” process — something China has flatly rejected and a term the United States avoided when it first waded into the South China Sea dispute in July 2010.

She also somewhat provocatively referred to the South China Sea as the West Philippine Sea, a term preferred in the Philippines but reviled in Beijing.

Such moves, added together, may prompt broader alarm in China. “With their mind-set, whatever you do, it may be considered part of a conspiracy,” said Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the .

Some China watchers say the American moves may feed suspicions in China that the United States is seeking to encircle it because it is uneasy with having an economic and military rival.

Indeed, China’s prime minister, , warned the United States on Friday to steer clear of territorial disputes between China and its neighbors, saying they ought to be resolved directly “through friendly consultations.” And the Chinese Foreign Ministry expressed concern about the political changes in Myanmar, saying it hoped they would not destabilize the country.

In September, China aimed its anger at Myanmar after it suspended a Chinese-led project to build a dam in northern Myanmar, creating a rare rift between the countries.

This tension helps explain Myanmar’s openness to dealing with the United States, which was itself eager to expand its presence in the region — as Mrs. Clinton articulated in an article published this month in Foreign Policy magazine titled “America’s Pacific Century.”

“As the war in Iraq winds down and America begins to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan, the United States stands at a pivot point,” Mrs. Clinton wrote in the article. The United States should resist the temptation of downsizing its “foreign engagement” after the wars, she said, because engagement in Asia “is critical to America’s future.”

Administration officials say they are trying to bring China into the club of responsible great powers. Mrs. Clinton; , the national security adviser; and others have labored, with mixed results, to enlist China in problems like , global economic imbalances and renegade nuclear programs in and .

But progress is halting, officials admit. A senior administration official described China as a “peculiar adolescent that can no longer hide behind its status as a developing nation, but does not see itself with the full responsibility of a global power.”

Closer ties to the United States would bring Myanmar full circle to its years immediately after independence from in 1948. At the time Myanmar sought close ties with the West to balance relations with China, said Thant Myint-U, a historian and former official.

In recent years, China has become one of Myanmar’s largest trade partners, lured by bountiful natural resources. Myanmar has relied on China for much-needed , partly to mitigate the effects of Western sanctions.

Yet anti-Chinese sentiment has flared up periodically in Myanmar’s history, and observers said resentment at China’s plans to consume nearly all of the power from the halted dam was one reason the plan was so unpopular.

Aung Din, the executive director of the U.S. Campaign for Burma, a pressure group that supports Myanmar’s democracy movement, says he saw the seeds of backlash against Chinese interests in Myanmar. “Many projects are carried out by Chinese companies; prominent businessmen are Chinese; everything belongs to China, actually,” he said. “If we don’t take any action, Burma will become a satellite state of China.”

Mrs. Clinton’s visit, he said, might encourage the Burmese government and people “to confront Chinese interests.”
607 2011-11-19 Joseph F. Skowron had everything going for him.     A Yale-educated doctor, Mr. Skowron gave up a budding career as an orthopedic surgeon for the riches of Wall Street. He became a star hedge fund manager, using his medical knowledge to earn milli...
608 2011-11-19 Goldman Sachs  has appointed 261 new managing directors,  according to a list obtained by DealBook. It is the smallest class since 259 were named managing director in 2008, reflecting a broad cost-cutting effort at the firm.      Managing director...
609 2011-11-19 The fourth movie in the Twilight Saga series earned $30.25 million from its midnight screenings, doing better than the previous three movies in the lucrative vampire franchise and boding well for its prospects this weekend. Producers have predicte...
610 2011-11-20 A new company is selling downloads of about 100 videos of classic moments in rock and rhythm and blues....
611 2011-11-20 A new company is selling downloads of about 100 videos of classic moments in rock and rhythm and blues....
612 2011-11-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
613 2011-11-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
614 2011-11-20 Bad stuff, happening as we speak....
615 2011-11-20 Bad stuff, happening as we speak....
616 2011-11-20 Before a missed kick cost Oregon a chance to beat Southern Cal in overtime, the Ducks did enough wrong to lose the game....
617 2011-11-20 Before a missed kick cost Oregon a chance to beat Southern Cal in overtime, the Ducks did enough wrong to lose the game....
618 2011-11-20 Meanwhile, students and others affiliated with the Occupy U.C. Davis movement planned for a Monday afternoon protest on the California campus....
619 2011-11-20 Meanwhile, students and others affiliated with the Occupy U.C. Davis movement planned for a Monday afternoon protest on the California campus....
620 2011-11-20 A scene from Theresa Rebeck's new comedy about a class led by a formidable writer, played by Alan Rickman. (Video courtesy of the production.)
621 2011-11-20 The Las Vegas chef will have his first restaurant in New York....
622 2011-11-20 The Las Vegas chef will have his first restaurant in New York....
623 2011-11-20 A Hong Kong-based company, Next Media, that has turned major news events into popular animated videos has now set up an office in New York City....
624 2011-11-20 A Hong Kong-based company, Next Media, that has turned major news events into popular animated videos has now set up an office in New York City....
625 2011-11-20 Sarah Hoyt Pease and Jeremiah Patrick Murphy III were married Saturday evening at Marsh Chapel on the campus of Boston University. The Rev. Philip L. Rountree Jr., an Episcopal priest and an uncle of the bride, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 28, will take her husband’s name. She graduated from Yale and is a fund-raiser at Tufts University in Medford, Mass.

She is a daughter of Sarah Rountree Pease and Samuel Curtiss Pease of Cohasset, Mass.

The bridegroom, 29, is studying for an M.B.A. at Harvard. He was, until June 2010, an associate specializing in commercial real estate investments at the Carlyle Group, an investment firm in Washington. He graduated cum laude from Harvard.

He is the son of Linda Tina Murphy and Jeremiah Patrick Murphy Jr. of Dover, Mass.

The couple met in Washington in May 2006. Introduced by a mutual friend at a bar in Georgetown, they discovered that they were planning to play kickball in the same league, though on different teams. The two competed against each other every Wednesday evening on the Washington Mall and later chatted at Kelly’s Irish Times, a bar in downtown Washington.

“It was great to meet someone from Boston in D.C., and we would talk about mutual friends and places back home,” Ms. Pease said. “But the loud basement bar wasn’t exactly conducive to long conversations.”

A self-described “fifth generation Yalie,” Ms. Pease also had a hard time with the fact that Mr. Murphy had gone to Harvard. “I was brought up in Yale sweatshirts, with a distaste for all things crimson from an early age,” she said. “But Jerry was convincing me that going to Harvard didn’t make you a bad person.”
626 2011-11-20 Johan Olsson of Sweden and Marit Bjoergen of Norway dominated the opening events of the World Cup season, easily winning their freestyle races in Sjusjoen, Norway. Olsson finished the men’s 15-kilometer race in 32 minutes 40.9 seconds, beating Petter Northug of Norway by 31.2 seconds. Bjoergen, winner of three gold medals at the Vancouver Olympics, won the women’s 10-kilometer race in 24:22.3.
627 2011-11-20 Minnesota Timberwolves point guard Ricky Rubio said he would consider playing for his former team Barcelona if the N.B.A. season is canceled. Rubio told Catalan radio ONA FM that “I want to wait until I see there is no chance of resolving the situation, and then I will sign with another team.”
628 2011-11-20 Playing for the first time since a top assistant coach was accused of sexual abuse, No. 5 Syracuse romped to a 92-47 win over Colgate in the N.I.T. Season Tip-Off on Saturday.

It was business as usual for the host Orange (4-0) on the court, even as the program was trying to come to grips with molestation allegations against the assistant Bernie Fine.

Syracuse placed Fine on administrative leave “in light of the new allegations” that he molested two former ball boys for years. Fine has dismissed the allegations as “patently false.”

“We’ve made all the statements we’re going to make,” Coach Jim Boeheim said when asked about Fine, whom he has strongly supported.

Dion Waiters scored 16 points and James Southerland 14 for Syracuse in its 46th straight victory against Colgate (1-2) dating to 1962.
629 2011-11-20 Children pass this test around 18 months of age; it is part of their growing sense of self, of an “I” who is different from other people. C found the sticker I placed on his head one day by looking in the mirror and then touching his head. Dogs either do not care about the mark, or do not realize that the dog in the mirror is themselves.

On the other hand, more ecologically appropriate research — studying a dog’s response to yellow snow — has found that dogs spend less time sniffing their own urine than the urine of others. This may reveal a sense of “me” if not a sense of “I.” Whether a child would recognize his own urine has yet to be scientifically investigated.

TUESDAY Playing at home, playing in the park. Both C and D engage in lots of play, though of different varieties. Dogs favor rough-and-tumble play, tussling with, chasing and biting other dogs. In this play, dogs follow a basic code of behavior: do not bite too hard or before sending a “play signal,” or your playmate will respond with aggression. This morning in the park, D tries out a new play behavior: mounting another dog. It does not go over well. He sits out the next bout.

At home, C excitedly throws a block into my face. He has little idea this is bad behavior, and stops only when the blocks are placed out of his reach: he doesn’t know the rules of play yet. On the other hand, he has begun sipping imaginary water from a cup: a kind of “pretend” that is an early stage of developing a theory of mind, the understanding of others’ perspectives. D never drinks imaginary water out of a water dish, unless I forget to fill his bowl.

WEDNESDAY One evening when he had just turned 2, C proclaimed “half moon up!” at the half moon rising in the dusk sky. By their second birthdays children may have vocabularies of hundreds of words. Impressed? Recently Chaser, a border collie, was trained to retrieve, nose or paw 1,022 objects by name. Still, Chaser, like all dogs, utters nary a word. C, like many 2-year-olds, speaks a blue streak. It might be that D has told me about the half moon; I just don’t understand his dialect.

In the mornings, C not only speaks, he also babbles — a fantastical, meaningless stream of sounds that plays with his burgeoning language. When C toddles off down the hall in search of breakfast, D gives me a look. I know the look: I get it when C is playing too roughly with him or taking all of my attention. I imbue C’s babble and D’s look with great meaning, based more on my familiarity with them than any evidence of their signifying anything at all.

THURSDAY Until six months ago, C and D were identical in one respect: they both used their mouths as exploratory organs — a habit that C has happily relinquished. Now, on finding a ladybug in the house, D sniffs at it, then grabs it with his mouth. C does not: he points at it, then turns to me. Who got more information from his exploration? It’s hard to gauge: I doubt that any of us knows what the taste of ladybug can tell us about it.

What this difference reveals is the divergence, growing more profound by the day, in how the dog and the child see the world. And this reflects the fact that the dog’s olfactory ability dwarfs ours; just what this means for how they see (smell) the world is only now beginning to be understood. D has located the places that his friends — human and dog — live in the neighborhood entirely by smell. More than once on a walk I have found myself standing at the entrance to a strange building, waiting for my dog to finish sniffing the doorjamb, when someone I know from the dog park walks out.

C, by contrast, is all about vision, and vision leads to visual attention, which leads to communication we can understand. In infants, this burgeoning interest in where people have (visually) gone is what makes peekaboo fun: when I disappear behind a scarf, maybe it really is the case that I am long gone! But then pop! there we both are.

For his part, D is bemused by peekaboo.

FRIDAY My son has taken to kissing the scar left by my back surgery. My dog licks my tears when I cry. Neither wants to see me angry. In all cases they are not exhibiting a fully developed, adult understanding of injury, sadness or anger — but something recognizable.

This sure feels empathetic. Do D and C see others as having qualities like sadness or anger — or selfishness? The research suggests they do. Two recent canine studies showed that dogs who eavesdropped on experimenters who were generous or selfish in sharing food with other people chose to interact with the generous ones.

Human infants appear to do something similar as young as 6 months old. By 18 months they may spontaneously, without solicitation, help an adult who is facing a problem in a task, like trying to reach an object that is out of reach or open a door when his hands are full. Dogs can be trained to do this, but they do not appear to see our problems, our intents, the way that infants do.

On the other hand, what dogs may lack in full understanding of us, they make up for in their tolerance of us. Dogs are infinitely patient. C will wait a minute if I request he do so while I finish pouring boiling water. (A “minute” lasts, variably, 6 seconds or 60.) D will wait for hours upon hours for me to return home.

One study found that dogs were able to delay gratification — waiting to trade food-in-mouth for better food — for as long as 10 minutes. This compares favorably with even 4-year-old children, who, as psychologists showed by asking them to wait to eat a marshmallow placed tantalizingly in front of them, averaged about five minutes.

In the end, the dog and the child overlap in many behaviors. They overlap, for that matter, in their roles in our lives. Mine overlap in my lap on the couch right now. But there are myriad subtle differences between them, the summation of which indicates that to equate their intelligences makes no sense. The child is on his way to something else; the dog is, fairly quickly, there. That is why he is “the dog” and the child is “the 2-year-old.”

There is no ruler that measures both dogs and little boys and girls. Just as a child is more than a young adult, a dog is more than — and much different from — a simple human. You are no more doing your dog a kindness by treating him as a child than you would be in treating your child as a dog. Unless your kid really loves liver treats.
630 2011-11-20 “It was getting the best of me, not being able to sleep, waking up in a cold sweat,” he said of the shock. So he sought professional counseling.

Mr. Smith and Cie-Jay then moved to Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, to be near Mr. Smith’s mother, Ruth Smith. He found work as a chef at the Ossining, N.Y., campus of Bethel Homes, a senior care center.

Mr. Smith’s mother died in 2009, but the bonds between father and son grew stronger. Mr. Smith said he relished taking Cie-Jay to his hometown, Sanford, N.C., where, for the past five Novembers, they have helped cook and serve holiday dinners for about 300 homeless and elderly people.

“One of the most important things in life is courtesy, respect and caring,” Mr. Smith said. His son volunteers with him, he added, “so that he gets a full, hands-on” understanding of those traits — although he admits that for Cie-Jay, part of the draw might be getting to sample everything sweet.

Life was good, Mr. Smith said, until February 2008, when, after fainting several times, he was told he had lymphoma. His first reaction, he said: “I thought, ‘Black men don’t get cancer.’ ”

But he began two years of grueling treatments, beating back the illness. The fight, however, drained his body and his bank account. Mr. Smith, who could not work because of his medical treatments, has supported himself and Cie-Jay for the past three years with his Social Security disability payment, $1,365 a month. He also receives $360 a month in food stamps.

“It’s a long way from making $50,000 a year to making $16,000,” he said.

Mr. Smith pays $500 toward rent (public assistance pays $900), about $200 for utilities, $118 for phone and cable bills and $145 for life insurance.

This year, when Cie-Jay was about to enter second grade at Public School 91 in Brooklyn, Mr. Smith could not buy the uniform — a blazer, a sweater vest, a shirt, slacks and shoes — which cost $200.

Jenna North, a social worker at the Bedford-Stuyvesant Family Center, where Mr. Smith and Cie-Jay attend family counseling, suggested that Mr. Smith apply for a grant to buy the uniform. The center is run by Brooklyn Community Services, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Mr. Smith got the grant, and Cie-Jay, his uniform.

Recently, Mr. Smith sat in the living room of his modest apartment in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, with his son perched on his lap. Cie-Jay described how he loved exploring Brooklyn on weekends with his dad and cooking, “especially eggs and hot dogs,” he said.

Mr. Smith hopes to start a pastry company called Mr. Smith Simply Eats. He has to find a commercial kitchen to rent so he can make his pastries. He also wants to pass on his love of cooking to his son. It is, Mr. Smith said, “a trade he can always fall back on.”
631 2011-11-20 Nearly a third of all homes are in foreclosure. The houses that are occupied are worth less than half of what they were two years ago. But people here still focus on what it could have been and maybe, just maybe, what it could still be.

This year, the city was facing a $9 million deficit and the prospect that it might not be able to make payroll. State officials began murmuring that they could move to take over the municipality if it became fiscally insolvent. One official said that unless the city “hit the jackpot,” bankruptcy was imminent. This fall, the city reached a deal with unions to delay cost-of-living raises, averting a crisis for now.

But the future is still grim — the city’s bond rating was downgraded again last month, and officials acknowledge that they could be in the same precarious position next year, when the city faces a $15.5 million budget gap. They hope that a new veterans’ hospital and an outpost of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, will help the economy, but they know those additions will not provide the same kind of quick cash that property taxes once did.

“It will take us 20 years to get to where we were three years ago in terms of collecting tax revenue,” said Al Noyola, the city’s interim finance director. “We have to get to a point where we aren’t relying on housing to drive our engine.”

When North Las Vegas started to draw up plans for the new City Hall some five years ago, cash flow was no problem. The city was hiring more and more workers to deal with the population influx, and workers were jammed up against one another in several gray, squat, 1960s-era municipal buildings. At the time, the plan was to tear down the existing City Hall and build a new police station.

During the good times, the city created parks filled with features that would make even the wealthiest towns envious — a life-size stegosaurus in one, fully lighted tennis courts in another. It created recreation centers with top-of-the-line equipment and built new libraries in rapidly expanding corners of the community. And it drew up plans for City Hall, with a wellness center where bureaucrats could work out between their civic tasks.

Officials like to point out that City Hall, originally estimated to cost $142 million, is coming in at least $10 million under budget. But the fitness center will sit empty until the city can figure out a way to pay for the treadmills and weight machines it was designed to hold. One solution: wait until they can collect money from employees who pay to use the parking lot covered with solar panels, prized real estate since it shades cars from triple-digit heat.

Most of this is of little comfort to many of the city’s residents suffering through the economy, who deride the new building as a Taj Mahal.

“My unemployment is about to run out, and nobody here is doing much to help me,” said April Miller, 33, as she sat in a local park having a picnic with her husband, Jeremy, and their three young children. Mr. Miller once had steady work as a plumber, but that stopped two years ago. He has had no success with any of the hundreds of jobs he has applied for.

He added, “It’s just disrespectful — like they have no idea of what people are going through.”

Because of budget cuts, the city has fewer than a third of the employees it had just three years ago, when construction on the new City Hall began. Now fewer than 300 people will move into a building that has the capacity for 1,500. The city plans to rent several offices to another governmental agency.

There are all kinds of statistics that put numbers on the grim news here, in a state that has had the highest foreclosure rate in the country for more than two years. There is the nearly 14 percent unemployment rate, foreclosure rates as high as 33 percent in some parts and a majority of homes worth less than half of the purchase price.

Angel Barajona moved here from Southern California six years ago, buying a three-bedroom home on a new block for $280,000. Now the house is worth about $100,000. Mr. Barajona lost his job as a truck driver two years ago and fears he will have to stop making mortgage payments soon. He ticks off the list of neighbors who have moved.

“Chances are a year from now I won’t be here, either,” he said, taking a break from repairing his car’s engine. Open car hoods are a common sight here these days, as many try to save money by acting as their own mechanics, Mr. Barajona said.

With federal money, the city has begun to buy dozens of abandoned foreclosed homes, where plastic tricycles and discarded beer cans sit in the backyards and empty pools are filled with dirt. Contractors repair damaged cabinets and holes in the walls that squatters have left behind, and the city puts the homes up for sale for around $100,000. About two dozen have been sold so far, and two dozen more are expected to be on the market soon.

These days, basic municipal services are more meager — street sweeping happens once a month instead of weekly, park bathrooms are cleaned less frequently and traffic lights can take more than a week to replace.

Last year, the city considered shelving the plans for City Hall or selling the building and leasing back several floors. But those plans proved untenable — the officials figured that the city would lose more money than it would make in either scenario.

“Asking me if I want it to be built now is like asking me if I want to have this kid after he got put on restriction,” said State Senator John Lee, who represents the city and explored the prospects of a state takeover. “If we get through this, people will look back and say that was the worst thing that could have been done at the time, but the best thing to show our optimism.”
632 2011-11-20 To be sure, we weren’t trying to figure out what is fair. That task is best left to philosophers. We were trying only to determine what actions customers perceive as unfair. As the responses illustrate, most people don’t view a spike in demand as an acceptable excuse to raise prices.

Such judgments are puzzling to economists, business executives and M.B.A. students. I have posed the same snow-shovel question to students in my course on managerial decision-making — and only 24 percent have said that raising the price is unfair. And it isn’t hard to see why: they have learned in economics classes that when demand increases and supply is limited, prices must rise to prevent shortages. What the students don’t realize is that the rest of the population may view such actions as gouging.

Many businesses implicitly understand this. After a hurricane, products like plywood and bottled water are in great demand. Local stores, including branches of large chains, keep the long run in mind and typically supply such products without raising prices. Other “entrepreneurs,” who have no such long-run concerns, will buy a load of plywood and sell it off the back of a truck at premium prices.

Both the stores and the truck owner may be making good business decisions. The stores want to build loyalty, and the truck owner wants to make some money — and provide a good that is in high demand. If people are angry, they don’t have to buy the plywood.

LARGE businesses can face problems, however, when they forget about the long term and start acting like the truck owner.

Bank of America is not the first company, or even the first bank, to make this mistake. In 1995, First Chicago imposed a $3 fee to use a teller for a transaction that could be conducted with an A.T.M. A storm of protest erupted. (Mr. Leno had a good line on that one, too: “So, if you want to talk to a human, it’s $3. But the good news is, for $3.95 you can talk dirty to her, so that’s O.K.”)

It took until 2002 for the company, by then called Bank One, to eliminate the fee and to acknowledge that it had been a public relations error.

Why can’t managers anticipate that their actions might provoke such outrage? The best explanation may be that people’s fairness judgments are gut reactions, not economic analyses. As Mr. Kahneman explains in his new book, “Thinking, Fast and Slow,” these are the types of judgments we make instinctively rather than reflectively. Feeling your blood boil typically does not involve careful calculation.

The fact that we react instinctively to some company actions can also mean that the public anger may be misplaced. Bank of America’s debit card fee was public and transparent — generally desirable features of a pricing policy, though they may not be good for public relations. Unfortunately, more unsavory actions that are less visible may be less likely to provoke customer fervor.

In a case I consider much more troubling, Bank of America recently settled a class-action lawsuit regarding overdraft fees on debit cards. Two bank policies were called out in the lawsuit. First, when a customer ran out of money and used a debit card, the bank would allow the purchase to go through — as a courtesy, it said — and then charge a fee of $35. Worse, the bank was accused of processing a day’s transactions in this order: from the largest to the smallest, rather than in the sequence in which they were actually made.

This practice could put the customer over the limit with an end-of-day shoes purchase that would then trigger a series of $35 penalties on small purchases made earlier in the day when the customer actually still had money in her account. (Bank of America settled the case without admitting any wrongdoing.)

Regulators now require banks to ask customers whether they want overdraft protection, rather than just assuming that they do. I like this rule, but it is futile to think that regulators can or should try to prohibit every fee that customers find obnoxious. Businesses can think of new fees faster than regulators can ban them.

Instead, it would be better to ensure that all fees are transparent and salient. As I have said in a previous column, the best way to do this is to require a business to give its customers an electronic file that details all of its prices, as well as the customer’s past use.  Then, with one click, a customer could then  import the data into third-party Web sites that could help search for the best deal. Without such disclosure, businesses have strong incentives to make any price increases as inconspicuous as possible.

If you run a business, meanwhile, you might think twice about charging for a service that has traditionally been free. If you’re not careful, you could get some unwanted publicity from Jay Leno.
633 2011-11-20 At an Asian regional meeting last year in Hanoi, at which Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton bluntly warned China to curb its aggressiveness in its territorial claims, the Chinese foreign minister walked out enraged, according to officials who were there.

On Saturday, Mr. Wen acknowledged that he did not want to discuss the issue at the summit, but added that it would be “impolite” not to answer the concerns of his country’s neighbors, according to Xinhua. He then defended China’s stance on the sea, according to the news service and an Obama administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.

The fact that Mr. Wen spoke at all, however, represented a tactical defeat in a struggle that has become a focal point in the larger tug-of-war with the United States over influence in the region.

The United States, with an eye toward strengthening ties with China’s smaller neighbors, has backed their preference for multinational talks, rather than one-on-one negotiations in which China would have the advantage.

The administration official’s account of the nearly two-hour session suggested a more dramatic exchange than is typical of such gatherings. Of the 18 nations represented at the East Asia Summit, only the leaders of Cambodia and Myanmar did not raise the issue of maritime security as the presidents and prime ministers took turns speaking, the administration official said.

Unlike an initial session of the summit, where the leaders met in a large ballroom with retinues of aides on issues of trade, education and multilateral responses to natural disasters, the session Saturday included only the 18 leaders and one adviser each in a smaller room — suggesting a relative intimacy that likely facilitated more candor.

The official said that Mr. Obama, who was the first American president to attend the East Asia Summit, “did not lobby” the other leaders to speak up.

The first to speak up, the administration official said, were the leaders of Singapore, the Philippines and Vietnam — among whom tensions with China run highest — followed by representatives of Malaysia, Thailand, Australia, India, Russia and Indonesia, the summit host.

The leaders reiterated their insistence on a “multilateral resolution of the conflicting territorial claims,” the official said.

Only after other leaders had spoken did Mr. Obama express his agreement with them, the official said.

Mr. Obama argued that, “while we are not a claimant in the South China Sea dispute, and while we do not take sides, we have a powerful stake in maritime security in general, and in the resolution of the South China Sea issue specifically — as a resident Pacific power, as a maritime nation, as a trading nation and as a guarantor of security in the Asia Pacific region.”

The administration official described his response as “positive in the sense that he was not on a tirade, and he did not use many of the more assertive formulas that we frequently hear from the Chinese, particularly in public.”

Instead, the official said, Mr. Wen simply countered that the East Asia Summit was not the place to discuss the issue, and asserted “that China goes to great pains to ensure that the shipping lanes are safe and free.”

“I would describe the overall discussion as constructive,” and not acrimonious, the official added. “The leaders were not equivocating; they were not speaking ambiguously.”

What was interesting, the official said, was not what Mr. Wen said, but what he did not. For instance, he did not repeat the notion that the disputes should be resolved bilaterally. But a report in Xinhua said the prime minister “reaffirmed” China’s position, perhaps indicating that his omission did not mean any real change in thinking.

Despite the prickly response by Chinese leaders throughout the week, the backlash has been relatively muted, at least compared to the past when such moves would have generated more critical statements and sometimes blistering commentaries in the state-run media.

Bonnie Glaser, a senior fellow in China studies at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies, attributed the Chinese response to possible confusion over Mr. Obama’s intentions as he approaches a difficult presidential election.

“They’re probably not too sure how much of it to attribute to the political campaign, and how much to attribute to a shift in U.S. strategy,” Ms. Glaser said.
634 2011-11-20 Credit: Travis Dove for The New York Times
635 2011-11-20 Lorenzo Martone, public relations executive and ex-boyfriend of Marc Jacobs: “I remember kissing some random people that I don’t know who they are. That was memorable because it was so much fun. But not memorable enough to remember who it was with.”

Derek Lloyd Saathoff, of the reality show “The A-List: New York”: “It really was a gay paradise. They always played the best music. I always remember the tea dances. If you got separated from members of your party, you would always meet there the next morning and have brunch.”

Michael Musto, Village Voice nightlife columnist: “This past summer, I went to the Pavilion for low tea with cable star Robin Byrd, her husband, and some friends. It was so hot the dogs were sticking to the boardwalk. And it was even more broiling inside the Pavilion because of the intense body heat and the lack of any kind of overpowering air-conditioning system. But Byrd started performing a flag dance, waving the banners around like mad, and she got so aggressively into it, I wouldn’t be surprised if she was still doing it as we speak.”

Robin Byrd, host of “The Robin Byrd Show” and former pornographic actress: “Really great D.J.’s came out of the Pavilion. It was a testing ground for D.J.’s. John Whyte, a former owner, had people you never heard of: Junior Vasquez. Nobody ever heard of Junior Vasquez. Then all of a sudden he became very big. John Whyte made the big names.”

Robbie Leslie, D.J. since the Sandpiper, before it was the Pavilion: “They had one of the most discriminating audiences in the world, and when a D.J. was on his game, the dance floor knew it and showed their appreciation. If a D.J. did poorly at the Pavilion, it could handicap or even destroy his career. That is how influential this little summer venue was.”

Andy Cohen, television host and Bravo executive: “I’m a Hamptons guy. I haven’t spent a ton of time there. But the time that I have spent there, which is very little, I barely remember, which is I think the point of the Pavilion in the first place.”

Peter Som, fashion designer: “So many memories ... yes, dancing till the sun came up; yes, sharing drinks and laughs with lifelong friends; yes, and more often these days, making sure I left Lina’s Lounge early enough so that I could get home and cook dinner for my housemates. These were not just physical buildings, but places where we celebrated, rejoiced, loved, sometimes mourned and always felt safe.”

John Bartlett, fashion designer: “My first share in the Pines was when I was 25 and we had a three-bedroom shack for 12 people: six guys and six girls. We would all dress up in our ’70s-inspired thrift clothes and go dance at the Pavilion. I saw Calvin Klein and Thierry Mugler there, and as a young F.I.T. student, I thought I had really arrived.”

Tom Jackson, Gayletter: “The first time I went to Fire Island I just remember thinking this place is like some sort of social experiment, where they put all gay people on an island and wait to see what happens. I think that first weekend I only saw one woman, and she worked at the supermarket. The Pavilion was kind of the culmination of all that. It’s the gayest gay bar in the gayest place on earth.”

Aaron Hicklin, editor in chief, Out magazine: “I remember walking from Cherry Grove, through I guess what is called Meat Rack, with my boyfriend so we could dance in the Pavilion. Somewhere along the way, as we were leaving Cherry Grove, we were joined by a petty thief who was English and drunk, carrying a painting wrapped in a sheet that he brazenly announced had been stolen from a house minutes before. Somehow, this companion, who we never saw again, reinforced the idea of Fire Island Pines being a bit of a gay fable. Strange things happened there.”

Susan Morabito, a resident D.J. since 1990: “It didn’t matter how old you were. Somebody in their 50s might feel old in a club in the city. Whereas at the Pavilion, that wasn’t even a thought. You felt comfortable. There was a mature crowd there with the youth: the fresh batch of cookies that came out of the oven every year.”

Lady Bunny, drag comedian and D.J.: “I was stunned and saddened by the loss, but I checked, and the Meat Rack is fine, so I’m not that concerned.”

Larry Kramer, writer, AIDS activist: “You don’t separate the Pavilion from the other parts that burned down. It’s like St.-Tropez: it’s one of the great watering spas of social culture. It is the gay place to go during the summer, and it has been for many years, since I was very young. I hope they can get it ready for next summer.”

Interviews have been edited and condensed.
636 2011-11-20 There’s no point in ranking dishes; I’ll just recount what I loved. The avocado with curry-laced almond cream and slivered fresh almonds is fat upon fat, and yet somehow the crunchy almonds provided enough contrast to the almost overwhelming creaminess to make me want to eat the thing until I physically couldn’t anymore. Another “please stop now” dish is Robuchon-style mashed potatoes (that is, 50 percent salted butter) with pickled brown crab, a dish that by itself makes the restaurant worth a visit. Lest you think it’s all fat all the time, there was at least one fairly lean but equally appealing dish of seared turbot with ravioli, using fennel as the “pasta” filled with fresh cheese mixed with Parmesan.

Not everything is so wonderful: baked celeriac with condensed buttermilk was pretty but soggy; teeny tomatoes the size of pearls with “aromatic banana” (which I suppose is oil infused with banana flavor) was not as good as it sounds (or maybe it doesn’t sound that good), though it was gorgeous.

Desserts followed the same pattern: incredibly good, or not so. I can tell you that the ice cream with black olives and black licorice, with what seemed like a wafer of solidified milk, was world-class, as was a variation on a traditional dessert of rye bread and cream and a kind of apple confit with crisp crust and melted butter.

Geist, Kongens Nytorv 8; (45) 3313-3713. An average (big) meal for two is around 795 krone, or about $150 at 5.30 krone to the dollar. (None of the prices here include drinks or tip.)

Before my last meal in town I called Mr. Redzepi of Noma and asked if I would be doing you, dear reader, a disservice by skipping Relae. “You absolutely must go,” he said. “It’s a fire that’s smoldering and before too long will be raging.”

Not much I could do. And, indeed, the place is terrific: intimate but bright, cheerful and totally fun, with — if our two menus served as any indication — interesting, careful and consistently delicious food. The design is simple but lovely and clever, right down to the drawers in each table that contain menus, napkins and silverware. The art on the walls is captivating, the local ceramics (from a store down the street) perfect, and though it all seems to have been done on a very strict budget, it looks and feels just fine.

There are two four-course menus, one with meat and one without. Since there is some overlap (not every dish on the meat menu has meat), I can give you a comprehensive sense of one night.

The first meat dish was cold: raw beef with oysters and lovage. It was a fine combination, the beef providing flavor as well as texture. Meanwhile the one-night vegetarian across the table from me was eating sheep yogurt with turnips and nasturtiums — fresh, full of contrast, wonderful. We both then had cauliflower three ways (crumbled, the core shaved and puréed) with black trumpet mushrooms and fresh hazelnuts; this was the most Noma-like dish of the week, and a resounding success. Next was wild duck with elderberries and (intentionally) burnt onions, rich and assertive. Then, the final vegetarian dish: fennel and fennel purée with parsley, smoked almonds and almond cream. I thought this was a tad light for a “main” course, a little too much like the starter, but it was curious and good.

Dessert — shredded fresh coconut with black pepper and raspberries — was the only dish that didn’t thrill me; the raspberries stole the show. (There’s a reason we don’t really eat coconut solo; it’s dry, with off-putting texture.)

Never mind. I loved the place. It’s Noma-like, but faster, less serious, and less expensive.

It was a three-mile walk from our hotel to Paustian, but given that it was 12 hours after our heavy meal at Geist, we decided it was a necessary one; besides, the weather was late-September perfect. Paustian is in a modern furniture store on a small harbor, a wonderful setting. (And a short cab ride from the center of town; you don’t have to walk.) It’s very stylized, but nicely so: beige linens and teak everywhere, with modern chandeliers and, of course, a fair amount of just plain white, broken up by contemporary art and traditional touches like plaid.

The food is quite traditional, too, unabashedly Danish and the better for it. When Bo Bech was the chef — he left last year to open Geist — it may have been a little brasher, but to me Paustian seems perfect now. The food may be a bit staid, with some French touches that feel 19th century, but it is carefully done, beautifully presented and perfectly delicious. Good rye bread is served with pork fat and cold butter, along with a few pickled vegetables. A herring appetizer is simply an upgraded version of street-stand salted herring, and none the worse for that (I’ll eat all I can get).

Real wild mushrooms on butter-soaked toast with tarragon-buttered croutons of rye, were simply perfect; chicken pot pie with summer truffles was a model of what this dish can be, right down to the puff pastry. There was a boned, meat-stuffed capon leg served with fantastic beets and a mustard-cream sauce along with a bowl of potatoes for the center of the table. Plaice and langoustine was butter-poached and mild — O.K., maybe bland — but rescued by a wonderful cabbage sauté. Fried gurnard fillets were served with a variety of roots, including celeriac, along with apples and pears.

Its desserts are famous, especially the ever-changing ice creams. I loved the almond cake with apple and apple jelly, and the classic crepes with berries and cream were appealing as well.

This was my second trip to Copenhagen in 14 months, and I was determined to get in to Schonnemann, which isn’t easy; it’s so filled with politicians, businessmen and other regulars that not all that many tourists actually can get in. (I booked before I left home, and you should, too.)

The place, which serves only lunch, is in an old, well-preserved wood-and-gleaming-brass barroom, brightly lighted (though there’s good ambient lighting as well). It makes traditional smorrebrod (open-faced sandwiches, not a buffet), most properly eaten with beer and schnapps, in the form of aquavit. I suggest going when you’re supremely jet-lagged or about to leave town, or some other time when you can afford to pass out afterward, and make an afternoon of it. You will not need dinner.

The bread is superior, as is the service, and you can have sandwiches like fat herring with curried hard-boiled egg, capers and onion; superb smoked eel with (perfectly) scrambled eggs and chives; steak tartare; smoked salmon with langoustine; or a variety of nonsandwich dishes containing chicken, fish or meat, all of which are equally classic. (I’d stick with the sandwiches.) Dessert: fried cheese with berries. Might as well go all the way.
637 2011-11-20 It was with pleasure that I read Craig Fehrman’s essay on how the National Book Awards came to be in their current incarnation (“Guilty Parties,” Oct. 30). The notion of financial profits overwhelming literary sensibility is certainly timely, then as now. But one clarification: The PEN/Faulkner Award was established by Mary Lee Settle, along with other members of PEN, in 1980 with the goal of establishing what is now the largest peer-judged literary award in America. While its conception came out of the desire to restore ethics to the literary award process, Settle also approached PEN, knowing they could supply writers to spur initiatives promoting literature for young people. Today, in addition to the PEN/Faulkner Award for fiction, we send writers to high school classrooms and correctional facilities in Washington, D.C., as part of our Writers in Schools program. Our mission remains committed to building audiences for literature.Lisa Page

Washington

The writer is president of the PEN/Faulkner Foundation.
638 2011-11-20 Police use of pepper spray on a dozen protesters at University of California, Davis, on Friday sparked calls for the resignation of the university's chancellor and the start of an investigation into the incident.     Videos of the Davis incident u...
639 2011-11-20 McCARTER--Michael G. The Board of Directors of the Group of North American Insurance Enterprises (GNAIE) expresses its condolences to the family of Michael G. McCarter who passed away last Monday. For many years, Mike was a lone voice in the insur...
640 2011-11-20 To the Sports Editor:     Go ahead and cancel the N.B.A. season . No one will miss a sport that has reduced itself to hulking men pushing and shoving under the basket or the predictability of swinging the ball around and posting up, blah, blah, bl...
641 2011-11-20 Meet Ukraine's harsh mistress of high fashion....
642 2011-11-20 The magazine's blog, The 6th Floor, has been compiling lists of ''My Three Favorite ...'' from staff members and contributors. Here are some recent selections. For the full posts, as well as more Three Favorite lists, visit 6thfloor.blogs.nytimes....
643 2011-11-21 For choosing a candidate on the issues, is there any voting system that does better than the others?...
644 2011-11-21 For choosing a candidate on the issues, is there any voting system that does better than the others?...
645 2011-11-21 Quicken, the popular personal-finance software, will not work on the latest versions of Apple's Mac operating system. Users of the application have some limited options, but options nonetheless....
646 2011-11-21 Quicken, the popular personal-finance software, will not work on the latest versions of Apple's Mac operating system. Users of the application have some limited options, but options nonetheless....
647 2011-11-21 An image of police officers dousing seated Occupy Wall Street protesters in the face with pepper spray has quickly become a popular meme online. A cutout of one of the officers, Lieutenant John Pike of the University of California at Davis, has be...
648 2011-11-21 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times are always scouring the Web, looking for the most interesting items. Today's selection includes pieces on holiday cards written in programming languages and how to hack Siri....
649 2011-11-21 A new agreement between United States and Chinese government officials is aimed at reducing use of pirated software by government agencies in China. A lobbying group for the software industry applauded the agreement, but said the Chinese governmen...
650 2011-11-21 Among those who may be deposed are John H. Bryan, a Goldman director and former chief executive of Sara Lee; Jon Winkelried, a former Goldman co-president; and W. James McNerney Jr., a Procter & Gamble director and Boeing chief executive....
651 2011-11-21 Among those who may be deposed are John H. Bryan, a Goldman director and former chief executive of Sara Lee; Jon Winkelried, a former Goldman co-president; and W. James McNerney Jr., a Procter & Gamble director and Boeing chief executive....
652 2011-11-21 The ideal roux is 3 parts fat 2 parts flour by weight....
653 2011-11-21 The ideal roux is 3 parts fat, 2 parts flour by weight (but the more you cook it the less powerful it becomes, so make sure you have plenty if you make a brown roux, which has a nutty, more complex flavor). For the scale-impaired, that would be 1/...
654 2011-11-21 The surge of protests around the world this fall -- from Cairo to the University of California -- has drawn increased attention to the methods employed by police forces trying to subdue crowds, particularly pepper spray and tear gas....
655 2011-11-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
656 2011-11-21 Colleges have continued to report their early application numbers for the class of 2016. Harvard released its tally of the number of students who applied to the college's newly returned early action program, on hiatus since 2007....
657 2011-11-21 Colleges have continued to report their early application numbers for the class of 2016. Harvard released its tally of the number of students who applied to the college's newly returned early action program, on hiatus since 2007....
658 2011-11-21 Apple will become the top PC maker in the world in the second half of next year, when iPad sales are factored into the equation, the research firm Canalys predicted in a new report....
659 2011-11-21 Apple will become the top PC maker in the world in the second half of next year, when iPad sales are factored into the equation, the research firm Canalys predicted in a new report. But to achieve that distinction, the firm said, Apple will need t...
660 2011-11-21 His testimony ranged broadly across the British tabloids and included his 10 myths about tabloid journalism....
661 2011-11-21 His testimony ranged broadly across the British tabloids and included his 10 myths about tabloid journalism....
662 2011-11-21 Congress's impasse on the budget is reminiscent of paralysis on addressing other looming risks....
663 2011-11-21 Congress's impasse on the budget is reminiscent of paralysis on addressing other looming risks....
664 2011-11-21 The automaker unveiled its $138,000 XKR-S convertible at the 2011 Los Angeles auto show, as well as -- paint job notwithstanding -- an imperceptibly updated version of its C-X16 concept....
665 2011-11-21 The automaker unveiled its $138,000 XKR-S convertible at the 2011 Los Angeles auto show, as well as -- paint job notwithstanding -- an imperceptibly updated version of its C-X16 concept....
666 2011-11-21 For example: an emotional outburst can ruin everything....
667 2011-11-21 For example: an emotional outburst can ruin everything....
668 2011-11-21 Polling shows Americans want to reduce the deficit through a mix of cuts and tax increases....
669 2011-11-21 Polling shows Americans want to reduce the deficit through a mix of cuts and tax increases....
670 2011-11-21 Because Google Apps performs many of the same functions as Office, but through a Web browser instead of local software, it is cheaper to own and operate than Microsoft’s desktop software, he said. It has been more than 4 1/2 years since Google b...
671 2011-11-21 Google has lured some small businesses away from Microsoft Office by offering similar features at lower cost. But big companies have been harder to land. It still makes sense to do it. An analyst says Google "uses the business in 'asymmetric warfa...
672 2011-11-21 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
673 2011-11-21 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
674 2011-11-21 To lure shoppers to the cash register as Black Friday approaches, Visa and a mobile shopping app called Shopkick have partnered to offer rewards at check-out, beginning at Old Navy, Toys "R" Us and American Eagle Outfitters. It is the latest examp...
675 2011-11-21 Plus: Are your employees absorbed in their work?...
676 2011-11-21 Plus: Are your employees absorbed in their work?...
677 2011-11-21 On Nov. 21, 1964, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was opened, connecting Staten Island and Brooklyn....
678 2011-11-21 On Nov. 21, 1964, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was opened, connecting Staten Island and Brooklyn....
679 2011-11-21 The Facebook page also suggested a way for sympathizers to donate tents and pizza for the protests. Another Internet site, an Amazon.com page that was established to solicit donations, indicated that about 100 tents had been given by Sunday evening.

The use of pepper spray came after students and other protesters set up tents on campus in a show of support for the Occupy movement and in solidarity with earlier protests at the University of California, Berkeley.

The reactions to it — cries of police brutality and pledges to reconvene protesters on a larger scale — seemed to mirror the reactions in New York, Seattle and elsewhere when the police quelled recent protests with force.

As police officers moved to take down the tents at Davis on Friday afternoon, some protesters on a sidewalk on the campus quad linked arms and refused to stand.

In one of the many YouTube videos of the episode, bystanders chant, “Don’t shoot students” before an officer shakes a pepper spray canister and walks before a line of seated protesters, spraying them. The protesters’ faces and clothes are quickly covered in the orange-tinted spray.

Some protesters are heard screaming and crying as they are arrested. One bystander is heard shouting: “These are children! These are children!”

Eleven protesters were treated at the scene after being sprayed, and two of them were then sent to the hospital. Ten protesters were arrested on misdemeanor charges of unlawful assembly and failure to disperse and were later released, according to the university.

After the episode, a police official suggested that the officers felt threatened and encircled by the protesters. The videos, however, show no evidence of threats from the protesters.

The university said Sunday that it had been flooded with comments, including some from alumni who pledged to stop donating.

“We’ve been inundated with people sending messages,” said Mitchel Benson, the associate vice chancellor for university communications. “It literally brought down our servers.”

In her statement on Sunday, Ms. Katehi said: “I spoke with students this weekend, and I feel their outrage. I have also heard from an overwhelming number of students, faculty, staff and alumni from around the country. I am deeply saddened that this happened on our campus, and as chancellor, I take full responsibility for the incident. However, I pledge to take the actions needed to ensure that this does not happen again.”

The president of the University of California system, Mark G. Yudof, did much the same on Sunday, saying in a statement that he was appalled by the images and that he would convene the system’s 10 chancellors to discuss “how to ensure proportional law enforcement response to nonviolent protest.”

“The time has come to take strong action to recommit to the ideal of peaceful protest,” he said.

In the capital, Sacramento, protesters marched to a home owned by Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday to denounce what they called violence perpetrated by the police.

Elsewhere Saturday, 13 members of an Occupy group in Washington were arrested after occupying an abandoned school building, according to local reports.

On Sunday, the police in Oakland, Calif., where tear gas was fired at protesters last month, evicted protesters at an encampment that had been set up a day earlier in a vacant lot. The protesters were given time to move their tents.

Saying public safety remained her first priority, Mayor Jean Quan said in a statement, “We will not tolerate lodging on public property, whether in parks or open space; it is illegal.”
680 2011-11-21 In 1982, while Mr. Smale was still chief executive at Procter & Gamble, General Motors named him to its board. Ten years later, Mr. Smale and the G.M. board led a coup, ousting Robert C. Stempel as chairman and chief executive. Mr. Smale became chairman, and John F. Smith Jr. the chief executive.

During his tenure as G.M.’s chairman, which lasted until his retirement in 1995, Mr. Smale helped rescue the automaker from the brink of bankruptcy and returned it to profitability. He also put in place management techniques from Procter & Gamble, streamlining G.M.’s balkanized management structure and pushing for more forceful marketing of its brands.

Mr. Smale also served on several other corporate boards, including those of J. P. Morgan and Eastman Kodak.

John Gray Smale and his twin sister, Joy, were born in Listowel, Ontario, on Aug. 1, 1927, and grew up in Elmhurst, Ill. Their father was a traveling salesman for the Marshall Field’s department store chain.

He graduated from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, in 1949. While there, he helped pay for his education by writing two how-to books — “Party ’Em Up” and “Party ’Em Up Some More” — that he sold to fraternities and sororities around the country, according to a 2009 interview in the school alumni magazine.

His wife of 56 years, the former Phyllis Weaver, died in 2006. His twin sister died in 2000. He is survived by four children, John Gray Jr., Peter, Catherine Anne Caldemeyer and Lisa Smale Corbett; and five grandchildren.

An avid fisherman, Mr. Smale had homes in Marathon, Fla., and at McGregor Bay in Ontario. He also kept an apartment in Cincinnati.

Mr. Smale was a major figure in Cincinnati’s civic and philanthropic circles. This year he made a $20 million donation to the city in his wife’s memory for construction of the Cincinnati Riverfront Park, which was renamed the Phyllis W. Smale Riverfront Park.

He also remained committed to Procter & Gamble after leaving the company. Robert A. McDonald, the current chief executive, said that just before he assumed the top post, he flew to London with Mr. Smale for a company event. Mr. Smale pulled out seven pages of typed notes in midflight and said that he wanted to discuss the future of the company and what it should concentrate on. In capital letters across the front page, Mr. McDonald said, was “INNOVATION, INNOVATION, INNOVATION.”

Each year the John G. Smale Innovation Award, a prize financed personally by Mr. Smale, recognizes young scientists at the company.

“He represented the soul of P.& G.,” Mr. McDonald said.

A. G. Lafley, who preceded Mr. McDonald as chief executive, said that last year Mr. Smale spoke at a meeting of Procter & Gamble leaders.

His health failing, Mr. Smale took the stage carrying a machine to help him breathe. He spoke about the importance of having a long-term focus for the 174-year-old company.

“He said, we don’t want to think in quarters or even years but in terms of decades and centuries,” Mr. Lafley said. “I learned that from John.”
681 2011-11-21 ¶Mike’s Hard Lemonade Company, Seattle, part of the Mark Anthony Group, selected Grey New York — part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP — as its creative agency. The assignment, with spending estimated at $10 million, had been handled by the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas, which did not participate in a review for the account.

¶Wal-Mart Stores, Bentonville, Ark., shifted its digital account to the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, from another Interpublic agency, R/GA, New York. Billings were not disclosed. Martin is already the creative agency for Wal-Mart, which described the decision as a consolidation.

¶Sony Ericsson, the mobile phone marketer, chose PHD, part of the Omnicom Media Group unit of the Omnicom Group, to handle its media planning and buying account. The account, with spending estimated at $200 million, had been handled by MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. Sony Ericsson is a joint venture of Sony and Ericsson, which recently said they would end the partnership as Sony buys the Ericsson ownership stake.

¶Neil White, senior vice president at BBDO Minneapolis, was promoted to president and chief creative officer, succeeding Denny Haley, who is retiring, the agency said. BBDO Minneapolis is part of the BBDO North America unit of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group.

¶John Shea joined the entertainment and digital networks and integrated media division of NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, in a new post, executive vice president and chief marketing officer for integrated media, reporting to Lauren Zalaznick, chairwoman of the division. Mr. Shea also received a so-called first look development deal with NBCUniversal for programming ideas. Mr. Shea had been leading Gameworks, a co-venture between the Universal unit of NBCUniversal and DreamWorks; he is best known for his long career at MTV Networks, part of Viacom, working on cable channels like Logo, MTV and VH1 as well as Web sites.

¶Eight media and newspaper companies formed a joint venture to acquire Find n Save, a search engine that specializes in online deals in local markets. Financial terms were not disclosed. The partners are the Washington Post Company, the MediaNews Group, McClatchy, Hearst, Gannett, the Cox Media Group, A. H. Belo and Advance Digital, part of Advance Publications.
682 2011-11-21 But it can’t sustain more than one thought or emotion or effect at the same time. This is a problem when you’re portraying those hopelessly ambivalent folk called artists, and you’re trying to parody and celebrate your subject at the same time.

For the play’s first two-thirds, it looks as if parody is going to be the dominant if not exclusive note. As “Seminar” opens, four youngish writers are gathered in an Upper West Side apartment (designed with sociological savvy by David Zinn), waiting for Leonard, a Gordon Lish-like fiction guru for whose counsel they have each paid $5,000. There’s the Bennington-educated, defensively prickly Kate (Ms. Rabe), whose family owns the apartment; the well-connected, preppyish Douglas (Mr. O’Connell); the klutzy, intense Martin (Mr. Linklater) and the lubricious, opportunistic Izzy (Ms. Park).

They are a fractious lot even before Leonard arrives, swapping barbs about one another’s pretensions. And each of course is pretentious in his or her own preordained way. The play begins with Douglas, the nephew of a famous playwright, rambling on about “the exteriority and the interiority” of a writers’ colony where he has spent time, and unctuously dropping terms like “postmodernism” and “magic realism.”

But that’s nothing compared to the verbal flatulence that fills the air once Leonard arrives, trailing weary contempt and sexual charisma. A once celebrated novelist, Leonard is now best known as an exacting editor, teacher and grandstanding chronicler of life in danger zones in third-world countries (Moldova, Rwanda, Somalia), where he stares down “the most terrifying nihilism this planet has to offer.”

Leonard reserves his most annihilating eloquence for shredding the egos of his students. (Kate’s offering is kissed off as “a soul-sucking waste of words.”) And he demands that they ask tough questions of themselves like, “Am I creating a living, breathing cosmos with language, or am I just scratching at the wall of a cave?”

I don’t know about you, but to me this sounds like phony phoniness. I’ve met a fair number of self-aggrandizing literary types (and yes, I’ve looked in the mirror), but they usually spin a more convincing, and less generic, line of blarney than this.

Mr. Rickman — a first-rate British stage actor known to mass audiences as that ultimate condescending educator Severus Snape in the “Harry Potter” movies — is a virtuoso of disdain. And the audience at the performance I attended all but squealed at each insulting crack of Leonard’s critical whip. But even Mr. Rickman, at least until near the end, has trouble making it seem that his character is anything more than a highly varnished papier-mâché figure.

“Seminar” makes astute use of topical and intellectual references, which are usually well known enough to make middlebrow audiences feel highbrow. (Leonard’s withering summing up of “the detached tone of perplexed intelligence” of fiction in The New Yorker got big laughs when I saw the show.) And it provides some familiar sitcomish shtick as comfortable padding. (When Kate is depressed, she gorges on potato chips and ice cream straight from the container, just like Valerie Harper’s Rhoda used to do.)

Mr. O’Connell and Ms. Park don’t overplay the inherent cartoonishness of the patrician Douglas and the sexpot Izzy (though I’m not sure either is ideally cast). And Ms. Rabe (a wonderful Portia in “The Merchant of Venice” on Broadway) and Mr. Linklater give real comic substance to skeletal parts.

Finally there comes a turning point, about an hour and 15 minutes into the show, when Mr. Rickman is allowed to embody something more than brisk intellectual sadism. Handed a really good piece of writing by one of his students, Leonard responds with a quietly potent mix of antagonism, humility, fear and something like joy.

Of course this mélange of feelings, magnificently orchestrated by Mr. Rickman, is arrived at after Leonard has only glanced at the first couple of pages of a vast manuscript. But for the first time I felt an authentic rush of pleasure and the exhilaration of being reminded that in theater, art comes less from landing lines than in finding what lies between them.

By Theresa Rebeck; directed by Sam Gold; sets and costumes by David Zinn; lighting by Ben Stanton; music and sound by John Gromada; production manager, Peter Fulbright; production stage manager, Charles Means; associate producers, Matthew Schneider, Wake Up Marconi, Jamie Kay-Phillips and Charles Stone/Ben Limberg; executive producer/general manager, 101 Productions. Presented by Jeffrey Finn, Jill Furman, John N. Hart Jr. and Patrick Milling Smith, Roy Furman, David Ian, David Mirvisch, Amy Nauiokas and James Spry. At the Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200; telecharge.com. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes.
683 2011-11-21 The federal charges accuse Mr. Ortega of attempting to assassinate President Obama. They say acquaintances claim that Mr. Ortega was trying to kill Mr. Obama because he considered him “the Antichrist.”

That a religious extremist from a small town in Idaho would try to kill a black Democratic president might seem like cinematic stock. The state has long been stereotyped as violently antigovernment and racist. Remember the white supremacists of Hayden Lake? Remember Ruby Ridge? But many people here in Idaho Falls say the cliché is empty this time.

Mr. Ortega is a Mexican-American whose family knows the sound of ethnic slurs and worries mostly about its restaurant business, not politics. People here say that the only thing that could have motivated Mr. Ortega was mental illness — but that they did not realize the severity of it until it was too late.

“I kind of thought we should sit down and talk with him,” said Mr. Ortega’s sister, Yesenia Hernandez, “but then he was already gone.”

The family reported Mr. Ortega missing on Oct. 31, eight days after he left on what he said was a vacation to Utah; instead, it was a trip to the East Coast. His family never heard from him, and still has not.

Family members and others said that while Mr. Ortega was behaving increasingly strangely — he read a 45-minute speech at his 21st birthday party in October that veered from supporting marijuana legalization to detailing the threat of secret societies to expressing frustration with American foreign policy in oil-producing countries — he never seemed violent.

They said that he could not have truly wanted to kill the president, but that he may have wanted a larger audience. He read his speech to anyone who would listen. In September, Mr. Ortega made a video in which he asked Oprah Winfrey to let him appear on television with her.

“You see, Oprah, there is still so much more that God needs me to express to the world,” he says. “It’s not just a coincidence that I look like Jesus. I am the modern-day Jesus Christ that you all have been waiting for.”

Mr. Ortega’s behavior and the age at which it appears to have begun to suggest that he has “a textbook case” of schizophrenia, said Dr. E. Fuller Torrey, who researches the disease and is the founder of the Treatment Advocacy Center in Arlington, Va.

Dr. Torrey recalled working at St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington, a psychiatric treatment center, in the 1970s and 1980s.

“These folks often end up in Washington as what we used to call ‘White House cases,’ ” he said. “A White House case classically is someone who comes to the guard at the White House and says they have a special message for the president, or they try to go over the wall. We’ve seen dozens. They almost always have paranoid schizophrenia, and they almost always respond to medication.” Among the patients being treated there is John W. Hinckley Jr., who shot President Ronald Reagan in 1981.

Mr. Ortega, he acknowledged, is accused of going much further than pestering a guard or climbing a wall.

“I can guarantee you that in his mind, it all makes perfect sense,” Dr. Torrey said. “If he’s Christ, Obama’s the Antichrist.”

Mr. Ortega had a lengthy arrest record in and near Idaho Falls, but the charges were mostly misdemeanors, like under-age drinking, and rarely involved violence.

“He really did fly under the radar,” said Joelyn Hansen, a spokeswoman for the Idaho Falls Police Department.

Now the entire town knows who he is.

“He seemed like a nice guy, but when he started talking, it was like, wow,” said Ramon Bailey, a student at Idaho State University who made the video of Mr. Ortega in September, after they met at the gym. Mr. Bailey was among several people traveling to Washington this week to testify before a grand jury.

Jake Chapman is also scheduled to make the trip to Washington. The AK-47 that Mr. Ortega is accused of using to fire on the White House was registered to Mr. Chapman, who said in an interview that he is known to friends as “the gun guy.” He said that he sold the gun to Mr. Ortega in March for $550 and that he believed it was the first gun Mr. Ortega owned.

Mr. Chapman, 21, said he had not heard Mr. Ortega talk of taking violent action. But more than a year ago, he recalled, Mr. Ortega and others watched an antigovernment film on the Internet called “The Obama Deception,” which was written, directed and produced by Alex Jones, a Texas-based conservative talk show host who has espoused a number of conspiracy theories involving the federal government.

Ms. Hernandez, who is two years older than her brother, said their family’s house was popular when they were children because they had a trampoline and lots of video games. She described her brother as friendly but said he began getting into trouble in his teens and dropped out of high school in 10th grade.

After several of what she and their mother, Maria Hernandez, said were aimless years, Mr. Ortega seemed to be maturing last year. He returned from a long visit with relatives in Mexico shortly before the birth of his son last year. He and his girlfriend, the boy’s mother, separated several months ago. In a brief interview, the girlfriend requested anonymity, saying only, “I love him, and I know who he truly is.”

In addition to his son, whom friends and family say he doted on, Mr. Ortega was devoted to mixed martial arts. He started training about a year ago and learned quickly, developing strong stand-up fighting skills and often volunteering to help others.

After years of eating junk food and caring little about his health, he started paying close attention to his diet, drinking protein shakes and eating more fruit and meat. Like other mixed martial arts fighters, when it came time to fight, he quickly dropped weight, getting to 154 from about 165 in a few days, in order to qualify for a lighter division, his trainers said.

He had let his hair and beard grow long in the last year. He told some people that it was part of his fighting identity, meant to intimidate. More recently, he said it was because he was Jesus.

“You ever heard of Andrei Arlovski, the fighter?” asked Mr. King, the trainer. “Oscar looked like him. But he also looked like Jesus.”
684 2011-11-21 Microsoft says Google’s efforts are hardly noticeable. But Google executives say that more and bigger companies are signing up for the cloud service.

Possibly more important to Google is the way that Apps helps Google build social networks inside business. If successful, it would be a threat to Microsoft’s biggest division and would create another inroad in its struggle with Facebook to dominate users’ online lives.

“Businesses are inherently about people and relationships,” said David Girouard, who runs Google’s Apps business. Predictable things, like figuring out the supplies needed for manufacture, were “not the minimum to play,” he said. “You need to have a social system, where a guy can introduce an idea about a new supplier, and he gets input from a lot of people quickly.”

Though Mr. Girouard said that 5,000 businesses a day signed up with Google Apps, few big companies have done so, most likely because some people do not entirely trust a cloud-based service, they like Microsoft or do not want to force employees to learn a new system. So Google does the next best thing and is focusing primarily on smaller businesses. Google maximizes the appeal of documents, calendars and spreadsheets at a cost of $50 a person a year. Many companies say that is 50 percent to 80 percent cheaper than Office. Google has the deep pockets to go slow since its search-related businesses bring in over $30 billion.

But Microsoft has deep pockets too. Its Office division revenue alone is $5.6 billion.

Most corporate software is sold through big consulting firms, like I.B.M. or Accenture, but Google has yet to use a partner. “They have approached other companies, but others think it’s not in their best interest,” said David M. Smith, an analyst with Gartner. He estimates Google gets just $150 million a year from Apps, and that it is not enough to cover costs. Google says it does make a profit.

Instead, it uses the business in “asymmetric warfare” with Microsoft. “Google spends $1 to make Microsoft spend $10 defending itself, because Microsoft went after Google on search,” Mr. Smith said.

Microsoft is dismissive of the situation.

“We sell a copy of Office 2010 every second — over 100 million so far,” said Tom Rizzo, a senior director in the Office division. “Nine out of 10 customers who use Google keep Office on their desktop.”

Microsoft started its own online documents business in June, at a price of $2 to $27 a month for each employee using the service. Mr. Rizzo, a 10-year Microsoft employee, would not say how sales were, but said, “I think this has the potential to be the fastest-growing product I’ve ever been a part of.”

Bradley Horowitz, vice president in charge of products at Google+, the company’s new social network, says the long-term reality of cloud computing will be the obliteration of any line between business and consumer. “Work and home meld into each other,” he said. “People at home already have access to huge supercomputers through the Google grid; they will not abide having old tools at work.”

Google Apps is centered on Gmail, used at no cost by hundreds of millions of people. The free version comes with ads and fewer features. Paid Apps have no ads, and Google says it guarantees a sustained quality of service and provides features like a way to publish corporate videos.

Capgemini, a technology services consultancy, uses Apps in a Guatemala-based call center because employees were used to the free version. That cut training time. Virgin America uses the Gmail system for its 2,100 employees, but lets people choose whether to use Microsoft Office. “When you have people on one tool, it takes them awhile to convince them it’s worth it to move,” said Dean Cookson, Virgin’s chief information officer. “It comes down to finding the killer thing the new one does.”

Google recently enabled companies to create corporate pages inside Google+, its social network site akin to Facebook. Where the consumer version of Google+ has a feature called “Circles,” which allows a person to keep the posts he shares with his frat brothers separate from those he shares with his mother, corporate Circles can be used to create virtual departments and teams, or for collaboration on projects including e-mail, documents, or video.

Once Google+ has perfected features like security and encryption, said Mr. Horowitz of Google, “it will change the way people work, share and communicate. I’ll have work conversations at 100 water coolers a day.”

At Journal Communications, Mr. O’Brien’s staff used Circles to train people on the transition from Microsoft Office to Apps. “We deployed six different teams in six rooms,” with video links between each, he said. “People could go into different rooms, and get different expertise from anyone in one of the other rooms.” He thinks using Circles to establish ad hoc teams of reporters will enhance collaboration among the company’s newspapers and television businesses.

Mr. Girouard said that Google Apps would introduce even more features with Google+ over the next few months. “We’re headed to a place where all productivity is inherently social,” he said. “Questions like ‘What do we do next?’ and ‘Who needs to make a decision today?’ are handled inefficiently now. It’s why there are so many meetings in companies.” Social networks in business, he said, could be faster, less formal and more efficient.

Social networking “is the next phase of what we’re going to do in business,” said Mr. Girouard.
685 2011-11-21 African Union peacekeepers have been hammering the neighborhood of Deynile, the last Shabab outpost in Mogadishu, for weeks. Kenyan forces are slowly but steadily advancing toward the port of Kismaayo, a source of millions of dollars of port fees for the Shabab and possibly their most strategically important town. And now it appears that the Ethiopians are headed to Baidoa, a large town home to hundreds of Shabab fighters not far from the Ethiopian border.

The injection of Ethiopian troops is a risky move, Western officials say, because of the historic enmity between Ethiopia, a Christian-led nation, and Somalia, which is almost purely Muslim. The neighbors have clashed repeatedly since Somalia became independent in 1960, and in 2006, Ethiopian forces ousted an Islamist movement that controlled much of southern Somalia.

Last week, African Union officials said they were considering adding Ethiopian troops to the 9,000 peacekeepers in Somalia, who have taken heavy casualties recently.

But the American government, a close ally of Ethiopia, seems divided over the wisdom of this. Some diplomats in the State Department are strongly against the Ethiopians jumping into Somalia again, said one American official, while the Pentagon and the C.I.A. seem to support it.

“The feeling is that the Ethiopians have the muscle, and the Kenyans don’t,” said the American official, who spoke anonymously because of the delicacy of the topic. “But it would be much better for the Ethiopians to back these operations discreetly, maybe with air power and logistics, and not to storm in.”

Though Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries on earth, it boasts one of the largest armies in Africa.

In Washington, military and intelligence officials were monitoring the news media reports about the Ethiopian incursion but could not independently verify the offensive. A senior Defense Department official said it was too soon to tell whether the Ethiopian military action would weaken the Shabab further or hand the insurgents a propaganda boost.

A senior official with Somalia’s transitional government, a weak and unpopular entity that survives purely on outside support, said last week that Somalia’s president, Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed, did not want Ethiopian troops inside Somalia, but that he was powerless to oppose them.

Residents in impoverished villages along the Ethiopia-Somalia border said Sunday that in the past 24 hours, about 800 Ethiopian troops crossed into Somalia, towing heavy weaponry, and that they had begun to build small bases and work with a local militia.

“Brother, let the Ethiopians come because when the drought engulfed us, the Shabab prevented all kinds of assistance from reaching us,” said Leelo Ahmed, a mother of four children, living in the town of Beledweyne.

According to news services, Ethiopian officials publicly denied that any Ethiopian troops had entered Somalia, though some officials privately acknowledged that this was the case.

Kenya and Ethiopia blame Somalia’s instability for hampering their own economic development, and both countries consider the Shabab, who have pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda, to be a regional threat. Yet analysts say the countries may have ulterior motives and are intervening in Somalia to install their own proxy forces who will then serve the interests of Kenya and Ethiopia.

Analysts say the key to whether the Ethiopian incursion will work depends on how long the Ethiopians stay — and what exactly they do.

“As long as the army acts with some restraint, and as long as the U.S. is careful not to back the incursion (or give the appearance of backing it), the blowback in the central regions would probably be quite limited,” said Bronwyn E. Bruton, a democracy and governance expert who wrote a provocative essay published by the Council on Foreign Relations urging the West to withdraw from Somalia.

She added that had the Ethiopians avoided a “stupid two-year occupation of Mogadishu” in 2007 and 2008, the Shabab would not have been able to capitalize on the anti-Ethiopian feelings and go on to seize power in many parts of the country.
686 2011-11-21 Nearly six years after Fox canceled the quirky sitcom “Arrested Development,” the series is being resuscitated by a new distributor, Netflix, the online streaming service. Netflix said on Friday that it had struck a deal for new episodes with the makers of the show, 20th Century Fox Television and Imagine Television. The episodes are to start appearing on the service in 2013. “Bringing a series back from cancellation almost never happens, but then, ‘Arrested’ always was about as unconventional as they get, so it seems totally appropriate that this show that broke the mold is smashing it to pieces once again,” the founders of Imagine, Ron Howard and Brian Grazer, said in a statement. Streaming episodes of the critically acclaimed show have remained popular among Netflix subscribers, giving the company the confidence to make more. Netflix did not say how many episodes it had ordered or whether the original cast members, like Will Arnett, above, had signed up for the revival. The deal comes as Netflix is eager for original programming. Earlier this year it commissioned a drama, “House of Cards,” which is to have its debut next year.
687 2011-11-21 Oprah Winfrey, below, has set a premiere date for “Oprah’s Next Chapter,” the cable successor to her syndicated talk show. The new show will start in prime time on Jan. 1, her cable channel, OWN, announced on Friday. The episode will include a two-hour interview and visit with the musician Steven Tyler at his home in New Hampshire. The premiere will come exactly one year after the debut of OWN, short for the Oprah Winfrey Network, and seven months after the end of “The Oprah Winfrey Show.” The channel said the show would feature interviews on location with “newsmakers, celebrities, thought leaders and real-life families.” On the schedule are interviews with Joel Osteen, Tony Robbins, Deepak Chopra, Sean Penn, George Lucas and Paula Deen. In a promotional video Ms. Winfrey says, “We’re not sitting on ‘The Oprah Winfrey Show’ in those chairs anymore, people.” Executives at Discovery, which jointly owns the channel with Ms. Winfrey, have said that new episodes could run two or three times a week, but OWN said on Friday that it would run weekly, on Sunday nights.
688 2011-11-21 As trading volume thins before Thanksgiving on Thursday, all these concerns increase the odds of volatility on Wall Street, said Ronald Florance, director for investment strategies at Wells Fargo Private Bank. “It doesn’t take much to have big moves,” Mr. Florance said. “It wouldn’t surprise me to have 1.5 percent or 2 percent swings in the next few days.”

Stocks closed slightly higher on Friday, after a sharp sell-off earlier in the week caused by rising worries about the impact of surging borrowing costs across Europe. A big bond auction in Spain on Thursday was met with lackluster demand from investors, with yields nearing 7 percent, a record. Meanwhile, yields on Italian bonds also remained stubbornly high, finishing the week at 6.6 percent.

The rising yields increase the likelihood of a recession in Europe, and that could affect some sectors in the United States more than others, said Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup’s chief equity strategist.

“People should be selectively more nervous,” Mr. Levkovich said, noting that for the overall Standard & Poor’s 500-stock group of companies, only 9 percent of revenues come from Europe.

But that figure is much higher for sectors like automakers, with 30 percent of sales tied to Europe, and household and personal products at 17.5 percent and pharmaceuticals and biotechnology at 15.5 percent. Still, many sectors will be barely affected by a deeper European slowdown in terms of revenues, including telecommunications, food staples and retailing, he said.

While yields have been rising across Europe, threatening economic growth there, for the United States the key is to keep the contagion from spreading west and raising rates here.

That has not happened, Mr. Levkovich said. In the months leading to the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, he noted, borrowing costs for investment-grade corporations in the United States leaped 2 percent. This time, despite the anxiety abroad, rates for big corporate borrowers have increased by less than 20 basis points, about one-tenth as much as before.

As for the special Congressional panel’s effort to find $1.2 trillion in deficit cuts by Wednesday, investors were already discounting the likelihood of a breakthrough. If the committee cannot agree on a plan by then, which seemed to be a near certainty on Sunday, the $1.2 trillion in cuts over 10 years are supposed to take effect automatically beginning in January 2013, with deep reductions in the Pentagon’s budget and domestic programs.

The markets will also be weighing the implications of elections in Spain on Sunday. With nearly all of the votes counted, the opposition Popular Party appeared to have won a governing majority. Because the Popular Party is more likely to impose the austerity measures investors want, that may propel markets, some analysts said. But any push probably would be fleeting because the bigger questions hanging over the euro remain unresolved.

European economic figures to be published this week, including industrial production and purchasing managers’ data, are likely to show a worsening picture, with activity hit by the crisis and rising market interest rates, economists said.

In contrast, statistics to be published this week in the United States will show a strengthening economy, and are likely to support the United States stock market. What is more, unlike in Europe, where government bonds have been pummeled, in the United States Treasury bonds have continued to be a haven for investors seeking a safe harbor amid uncertainty elsewhere.

“The balance of the economic data flow out of Europe is going to be more negative,” said Eric Green, economist at TD Securities in New York. “In the United States, it is going to be fairly positive.”

Last week, Mr. Green increased his forecast for annual growth in the United States in the fourth quarter to 3 percent from a previous estimate of 2 percent.

Wall Street has been fairly resilient recently because of the better economic data, he said. But any worsening of the situation in Europe could drag the American economy and stock market back down, Mr. Green said. “Whatever momentum we have now could turn around all very quickly because of Europe,” he said.

Several European bond auctions are scheduled for this week. On Tuesday, the Netherlands will auction three-year bonds, and Spain will auction three-month and six-month treasury bills, Daiwa said. Germany will sell 10-year bonds on Wednesday. In a more important test of investor confidence, Italy will auction treasury bills on Friday.

For now, said Eric Fine, managing director of Van Eck G-175 Strategies in New York, investors are still counting on an imminent move by the European Central Bank to stand behind the debt of weaker European borrowers, though Germany has consistently opposed that.

“The market is reflecting a very high probability of a save by the E.C.B.,” he said. “But that probability is nowhere near as high as the market thinks.”
689 2011-11-21 TRIPOLI, Libya — Revolutionary fighters captured Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s feared intelligence chief on Sunday as the interim government struggled to manage the increasingly thorny quandary of how to get custody of the former dictator’s son from a second armed group that had captured him only the day before.

The military council in the Wadi Shati district said the intelligence chief, Abdullah Senussi, for decades Colonel Qaddafi’s brutal enforcer, had been taken prisoner from his sister’s house deep in the southern desert without resistance. Mr. Senussi, who was married to a sister of Colonel Qaddafi’s wife, was considered one of the regime’s hard-liners who had resisted officials who pushed for reforms. He has been wanted in France since 1999, when a Paris court sentenced him in absentia to life in prison for his role in an attack on a French airliner that killed 170 people in 1989.

His seizure capped a weekend of celebrations across the country over the capture of Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, one of Colonel Qaddafi’s sons and the heir apparent. But that arrest has proved to be a major distraction for Prime Minister Abdel Rahim el-Keeb as he tries to stitch together a cabinet this week among leaders of competing tribes, cities and rebel fighting groups.

Leaders of the town of Zintan, whose fighters captured Mr. Qaddafi, said Sunday that new conditions would have to be met before they would release their prisoner to the fledgling central government. At first they said they would wait for a new government to form before handing him over, but on Sunday they said they also needed guarantees that the government had installed a working court system, which could take months.

“Zintan has to be sure the courts will be well organized,” said Mussa Grife, a member of the Zintan revolutionary movement’s political committee. “We won’t let him leave until the government establishes a strong legal system. We need to be sure.”

It was not clear whether the Wadi Shati council would make similar demands, and use a high-ranking prisoner as a bargaining chip for influence over the cabinet.
690 2011-11-21 How do you sell something people can get free? That is a central question in the music industry today, particularly when it comes to music videos, which are abundantly available on YouTube, Vevo and other sites.     But record companies sell video...
691 2011-11-21 During a very brief annual shareholder meeting on Tuesday, Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said: ''We are in an era where the range of smart devices is continuing to expand. That is a fantastic thing for Microsoft.''     So far, so...
692 2011-11-21 FLORES--Karen Weissman, 54, passed away on Saturday, November 19, 2011, with her loving family and friends by her side. Karen fought a courageous battle against metastatic breast cancer for over two years, leaving no stone unturned in her valiant ...
693 2011-11-21 Next Media, a Hong Kong-based company with gossipy newspapers in Hong Kong and in Taiwan, has gained an appreciative following for its news cartoons: short animated segments, often humorous and sometimes racy, that provide a visual narrative for m...
694 2011-11-22 Hedge funds are expensive and most investors rarely see the storied returns of some star portfolios. But the money keeps flowing in....
695 2011-11-22 The funds are expensive and most investors rarely see the storied returns of some star portfolios. But the money keeps flowing in....
696 2011-11-22 Microsoft and Nokia have yet to prove whether their marriage will give birth to healthy handset sales. One analyst is not expecting much. James Faucette, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, cut his forecast for Nokia Windows phone sales this q...
697 2011-11-22 Microsoft and Nokia have yet to prove whether their marriage will give birth to healthy handset sales. One analyst is not expecting much. James Faucette, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, cut his forecast for Nokia Windows phone sales this q...
698 2011-11-22 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times search the Web each day for the most interesting items. Today's selection includes pieces on personal finance advice for the 1 percent, like the widow of Steven P. Jobs, and a former Twitt...
699 2011-11-22 With Congress's failure to reach a deficit reduction deal, education programs are scheduled for significant cuts in 2013 unless the government takes action....
700 2011-11-22 With Congress's failure to reach a deficit reduction deal, education programs are scheduled for significant cuts in 2013 unless the government takes action....
701 2011-11-22 Markets like SharesPost and SecondMarket provide platforms to trade shares of private companies, but the limited information available to investors raises some questions....
702 2011-11-22 Markets like SharesPost and SecondMarket provide platforms to trade shares of private companies, but the limited information available to investors raises some questions....
703 2011-11-22 The artist Andrew Kuo charts the the Pennsylvanian singer and producer also known as Alec Koone....
704 2011-11-22 The artist Andrew Kuo charts the the Pennsylvanian singer and producer also known as Alec Koone....
705 2011-11-22 Collection of lesson plans, Times articles – contemporary and historical – and more resources for teaching about gay issues and gay history....
706 2011-11-22 If it's "standard police procedure" to pepper spray peaceful protesters, we need a new standard....
707 2011-11-22 If it's "standard police procedure" to pepper spray peaceful protesters, we need a new standard....
708 2011-11-22 In Tuesday's hearing for MF Global's Chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy judge will be considering several options, including the potential appointment of a trustee to oversee the parent company's estate. DealBook is providing live coverage of the pro...
709 2011-11-22 In Tuesday's hearing for MF Global's Chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy judge will be considering several options, including the potential appointment of a trustee to oversee the parent company's estate. DealBook is providing live coverage of the pro...
710 2011-11-22 The Icelandic artist Ragnar Kjartansson has won the inaugural Malcolm Award at Performa 11, the visual art performance biennial....
711 2011-11-22 The Icelandic artist Ragnar Kjartansson has won the inaugural Malcolm Award at Performa 11, the visual art performance biennial....
712 2011-11-22 And why hasn't anyone asked Herman Cain about pizza?...
713 2011-11-22 And why hasn't anyone asked Herman Cain about pizza?...
714 2011-11-22 Credit: Andrew Bettles for The New York Times
715 2011-11-22 British financial regulators have barred a hedge fund compliance officer from working in the country's financial services industry, in connection with deals resulting from the collapse of Lehman Brothers....
716 2011-11-22 British financial regulators have barred a hedge fund compliance officer from working in the country's financial services industry, in connection with deals resulting from the collapse of Lehman Brothers....
717 2011-11-22 Carl Richards responds to readers who had questions about his cover story in the "Your Money" special section two weeks ago, and offers up some lessons learned....
718 2011-11-22 Carl Richards responds to readers who had questions about his cover story in the "Your Money" special section two weeks ago, and offers up some lessons learned....
719 2011-11-22 A new generation of scholars argues for the reclamation of intellectual history, a discipline long considered, if not quite boring, then certainly musty, elitist and out of touch....
720 2011-11-22 A new generation of scholars argues for the reclamation of intellectual history, a discipline long considered, if not quite boring, then certainly musty, elitist and out of touch....
721 2011-11-22 The $1.1 billion agreement will create the third-largest exchange in the world and perhaps give the Japanese listings a lift....
722 2011-11-22 The $1.1 billion agreement will create the third-largest exchange in the world and perhaps give the Japanese listings a lift....
723 2011-11-22 Why did the campus police use pepper spray, according to a statement from the police chief?...
724 2011-11-22 Why did the campus police use pepper spray, according to a statement from the police chief?...
725 2011-11-22 “It’s the chief executive’s job to bring people together and to provide leadership,” Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference. “I don’t see that happening.”

The White House rejects such criticism, even as the president and his advisers have long expected it. But the risk to his leadership image was one they decided to take back in August, after Mr. Obama’s prolonged fight with Congressional Republicans over raising the nation’s debt limit had depressed his approval ratings to the lowest point of his presidency. The bigger risk, the advisers believed, would be to once again get in the budget weeds with lawmakers and again come up empty-handed.

“A president’s job is to lay out a plan and then rally the country to that plan,” said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. “This president has done exactly that. He put forward a detailed, balanced,  $3 trillion deficit reduction plan, and overwhelming majorities of Americans support his approach. But if at the end of the day, the other party decides that adhering to rigid ideological dogmas is more important than what the American people want, that’s their choice to make.”

Robert Dallek, the presidential historian, saw “some risk” in Mr. Obama’s strategy of blaming Congress and staying above the day-to-day fray of deficit negotiations. But, he added, “when Congress has a 9 percent approval rating, it does give Obama an edge. It’s hard to lead when people won’t follow.”

Mr. Dallek said Mr. Obama seems to be borrowing a page from President Truman, who in 1948 campaigned against a “do-nothing Congress” and defied expectations to win re-election.

And Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster who is not connected to the Obama campaign, said, “There is a clear sense that the president has reached out and tried to work with Republicans, and there is an equally clear sense that they have not tried to reach out and work with him.

“However bad this outcome is, having him get involved and then have Republicans refuse to compromise would have only made it worse,” Mr. Mellman added. “So it was a question of which battle do you want to pick. And I think they picked the one that is the least bad.”

Recent national polls have shown that about eight of 10 Americans expected the deficit committee of six Republicans and six Democrats to fail, and that more were inclined to blame Congressional Republicans if it did. Large majorities also favored reducing deficits through a combination of higher taxes on the wealthy and spending cuts, as Mr. Obama and Democrats proposed.

But large majorities also wanted Congress and the White House to reach a compromise.

Until Republicans give ground on taxes, Mr. Obama will stay on the sidelines, aides say; he is hoping that with polls on his side, Republicans eventually will compromise in return for Democrats’ agreement for savings from Medicare and Social Security. To keep the pressure on, he vowed to veto Republicans’ bill to repeal the threat of military cuts.

The debt-limit law agreed to in August cut spending nearly $1 trillion over a decade, and charged Congress with finding $1.2 trillion more in deficit reductions. While the deficit panel failed, Congress still has until 2013 to reach agreement before automatic cuts of that amount are made, half from military programs.

But the automatic cuts are far less a threat than what loomed in August, when failure to raise the debt limit could have caused the United States to default, risking a global crisis. Mr. Obama was forced into grinding negotiations, as Republicans refused to raise the limit until he accepted deep spending cuts with no tax increases.

The fact that neither the White House nor the financial markets viewed the current stakes nearly so high was another significant factor behind Mr. Obama’s lie-low strategy.

“We are not in the same situation that we were,” Mr. Obama said Monday. “There is no imminent threat to us defaulting on the debt that we owe,” he added. “There are already $1 trillion worth of spending cuts that are locked in.

“One way or another, we will be trimming the deficit by a total of at least $2.2 trillion over the next 10 years.”
726 2011-11-22 Among the 220 Lady Gaga-themed holiday gifts that went on sale Monday night at Barneys New York was a shoe made of chocolate for $95.

There are two ways to look at a $95 chocolate shoe, part of what may be the retailer’s most outlandish bid at upending yuletide decorating traditions since it replaced Santa Claus with Sigmund Freud in a 1996 window display.

On one hand, it is an immaculately detailed replica of the armadillo-shaped Alexander McQueen design worn by Lady Gaga in the video for “Bad Romance,” at a fraction of the original cost (reportedly $10,000 for the handful that were made). On the other, $95 is a lot to pay for a chocolate shoe, and, much like a luxury store that is turning over an entire floor to knickknacks inspired by a pop star, it may take some rationalizing to swallow.

On Monday evening, Lady Gaga was certainly making an effort, with plans to keep the store open all night. She arrived at Barneys around 4:30 p.m., wearing a white Chanel tweed jacket over an exaggeratedly large teacup skirt, and gave very proper interviews in a space that had formerly been the fifth floor of the men’s store. The department, called Gaga’s Workshop, has been transformed with displays of cookies, books, press-on nails and leather jackets, all housed in cartoonish sculptures by the artist Eli Sudbrack, some of which look like her head.

“There’s all sorts of affordable presents here, and they are guilt-free,” she said, sipping tea from a pearl-encrusted cup. (Barneys is selling a version of that cup with a matching saucer for $65.) A quarter of sales, through Jan. 2, will go to her new Born This Way Foundation, an anti-bullying campaign.

Among New York retailers, Barneys has a reputation for the most wickedly delightful holiday displays, and Mark Lee, its chief executive, said he wanted to go further this year by selling products. The store, which hopes to raise over $1 million for the foundation, expects to break even on the promotion, Mr. Lee said.
727 2011-11-22 As a result of that first, optimistic study, the gave the drug “accelerated approval,” meaning it could be marketed as a breast cancer therapy while further studies were conducted. Those follow-up studies are what caused a panel of F.D.A. experts to then withdraw that approval. That decision, you may recall, was made this summer, after a heated two-day meeting that included pleas from breast cancer victims and enormous pushback from , which markets the drug and reaps around $7 billion in annual Avastin sales. After weighing the evidence, the F.D.A. panel voted 6 to 0 against Avastin.

After Genentech appealed, Dr. , the F.D.A. commissioner, affirmed the decision on Friday in a ruling that would seem, on its face, unassailable. She essentially said that F.D.A. decisions had to be driven by science, and the science wasn’t there to support Genentech’s desire to market Avastin as a breast cancer drug.

Yet there was an immediate outcry. Some breast cancer patients, convinced that the drug was helping them stay alive, condemned the ruling. That’s certainly understandable. Less understandable was the reaction from conservatives, who cast the F.D.A. decision as an example of the nanny state making decisions that more properly belonged to doctors and their patients. The editorial page called Dr. Hamburg’s decision a “blunt assertion of regulatory power” and described Avastin as “potentially life-saving,” which it most certainly is not.

The strangest reaction, though, has come from the nation’s health insurers and the administrators of . Despite the clear evidence of Avastin’s lack of efficacy in treating breast cancer, they have mostly agreed to continue paying whenever doctors prescribe it “off label” for breast cancer patients. Avastin, by the way, costs nearly $90,000 a year.

The reason they are doing so is obvious: the science notwithstanding, no company wants to be cast as so heartless that it would deprive a seriously ill cancer patient of a drug that might offer hope, however slim. In October, when The Times reported that Blue Shield would no longer pay for Avastin as a breast cancer therapy, the company was immediately inundated with calls from elected officials, reporters and patient advocates. Although the furor appeared to be orchestrated by Genentech’s lobbyists, the company quickly put out a statement making it clear that it would, in certain cases, continue to pay for Avastin.

As for Medicare, it is, by statute, guided in such decisions not by the F.D.A. but by various compendia of drug use put together by such groups as the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. The network’s 32-member breast cancer panel is made up almost entirely of breast cancer specialists, nine of whom have financial ties to Genentech. The last time the panel voted on Avastin, it voted unanimously in favor of continuing to recommend it as a breast cancer therapy.

We talk, as a society, of our need to get health care costs under control. Conservatives, in particular, insist that Medicare must be reformed. Here is an enormously expensive drug that largely doesn’t work, has serious side effects and can no longer be marketed as a breast cancer therapy. Yet insurers, including Medicare, will continue to cover it.

If we’re not willing to say no to a drug like Avastin, then what drug will we say no to?
728 2011-11-22 The battle for the euro zone’s survival hinges on finding a way to unlock the European Central Bank’s firepower. Even if countries like Italy and Spain enact necessary reforms, they may not be able to borrow at reasonable rates. The central bank can prop up markets by buying bonds in the secondary market, but is forbidden by European Union treaties and its own statutes from financing countries directly. One idea making the rounds is to use the International Monetary Fund to circumvent the rules.

There’s some legal basis to such a plan. European council regulation 3603/93 exempts central bank loans to the I.M.F. from the prohibitions on government financing. Article 23 in the central bank’s own statutes allows it to conduct transactions with international organizations.

Such loopholes aren’t legally watertight; neither clause was ever intended to fast-track large bailouts. However, using the I.M.F. would bring other advantages that could make the case for central bank intervention more robust. First, the I.M.F., led by Christine Lagarde, lends under strict conditionality. That would remove the decision to lend from the central bank’s governing council, potentially assuaging critics who view interventions, including the current policy of buying bonds in the secondary market, as compromising the central bank’s independence. It would also keep the pressure on bailed-out countries, easing fears of moral hazard.

Also, the I.M.F. lends under a gentleman’s agreement that it will get its money back before other creditors. Unlike its secondary market purchases, that would reduce the bank’s financial risks. Putting the I.M.F. and central bank at the front of the line could scare bond markets by subordinating existing investors. However, that would be offset by the benefits of cheap financing.

The biggest obstacles to a central bank/I.M.F. program are probably political, not legal. The euro zone will not like the idea of transferring control of its destiny, while I.M.F. member states won’t be keen on the fund’s underwriting of big euro zone risks. One possible way to reduce this would be to set up a specific facility where any potential losses are passed through to the central bank.

Financing the I.M.F. through the central bank may sound unorthodox, but no less so than the current policy of secondary market purchases. It is worth a closer look.
729 2011-11-22 Liberal critics insist the trend is another example of top corporate executives raking in an inordinate share of the nation’s wealth, even as their employees suffer.

“It’s an extraordinarily unimaginative way to use money,” said , a former secretary of labor under President Clinton who now teaches public policy at the . After in the wake of the financial crisis, buybacks have made a remarkable comeback in recent years, with $445 billion authorized this year, the most since 2007, when repurchases peaked at $914 billion.

But spending on capital investments like new plants and infrastructure has stagnated more broadly in corporate America, confounding efforts by the Obama administration to spur economic growth. Capital expenditures by companies on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index are expected to total $546 billion in 2011, down from $560 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Eikon.

The principle behind buybacks is simple. With fewer shares in circulation, earnings per share can rise smartly even if the company’s underlying growth is lackluster. In many cases, like that of the medical device maker Zimmer Holdings, executives are able to meet goals for profit growth and earn bigger bonuses despite poor stock performance.

“It’s clear there’s a conflict of interest,” said Charles M. Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the . “Unless earnings per share are adjusted to reflect the buyback, then to base a bonus on raw earnings per share is problematic. It doesn’t purely reflect performance.”

In addition, executives, who are often large shareholders, stand to benefit from even a small, short-term jump in stock prices.

Earlier this month, Pfizer increased its estimate for stock repurchases this year to between $7 billion and $9 billion — essentially spending in one year nearly all of the money it set aside in February for multiyear buybacks. There has been a steady drumbeat of other companies laying off workers even as they have disclosed plans to buy back more stock. On June 23, said it would buy back $1 billion in stock; five days later it announced plans to eliminate 770 jobs. announced a $10 billion stock repurchase in July, and jettisoned 500 jobs in September after it discontinued its TouchPad and smartphone product lines.

Last month, the first layoffs began at Zimmer’s plant in Statesville, N.C., which is due to shut early next year. The company made splints and tourniquets there for more than three decades. For the sewing machine operators and the rest of the 124 workers at the plant, it is bad news, but it is a different story for Zimmer’s top executives.

Powered by huge stock buybacks — the company bought $500 million worth of its own shares last year, more than twice what it spent on research and development — Zimmer posted earnings growth of 10 percent a share, even though operating income and revenue grew by less than 5 percent in 2010.

That helped its senior management, including the chief executive, David C. Dvorak, collect millions in cash and stock incentive payments by meeting earnings-per-share goals. For example, 50 percent of Mr. Dvorak’s $1.03 million cash bonus was tied to achieving per-share earnings of $4.28 in 2010. The company earned $4.33, but without the share repurchases the company would have made $4 to $4.10 a share.

Investors have not rewarded the strategy, however: Zimmer’s shares have dropped 32 percent in the last five years, while Pfizer’s are down 30 percent in the same period.

Over the last decade, in fact, companies that spent the most on repurchases had a total shareholder return of 37 percent versus 127 percent for companies that spent the least, according to research by Gregory V. Milano, chief executive of Fortuna Advisors, which consults with companies on how to raise their share price over the long term.

In the cases of Pfizer and Zimmer, analysts say the rush to buy back shares crimped development of new products, a prime reason that both companies are experiencing slow revenue growth.

Despite the looming expiration of the patent for its best-selling drug, , Pfizer spent more than $20 billion repurchasing shares from 2005 to 2010.

“In that era, it wasn’t the best use of cash,” said Catherine Arnold, an analyst with . “They should have been doing more to fix the company.”

Matthew Dodds, an analyst with , said, “Zimmer has shown little appetite for acquisitions or diversification, yet they don’t sport a pipeline that can drive investor interest."

Nevertheless, Zimmer is on track to repurchase $1 billion worth of its shares this year, double last year’s pace, and it actually borrowed money last quarter to achieve its goal.

In a statement, Zimmer said its bonus programs were “designed to pay for performance,” and that overall compensation strategy was “designed to align the interests of its employees and stockholders.” Zimmer is committed to research and development and the introduction of new products, the company said, adding that the factory closure in , while difficult, “is in the best interest of the company’s stockholders.”

Pfizer declined to make an executive available to discuss its policy. But in a statement, the company said it “remains committed to returning capital to shareholders through share buybacks and dividend payments.”

As for the cut in research spending in February, Pfizer said it has “accelerated our research strategy and made important changes to concentrate our efforts to deliver the greatest medical and commercial impact.”

In a conference call with analysts this month, Pfizer’s chief executive, Ian C. Read, said his company would “continually look” for acquisitions that would increase revenue growth. But in deciding how to use the proceeds from recent asset sales, he said “the case to beat is share repurchase.”

Financial institutions, which bought back huge amounts of stock over the last decade at share prices far higher than they are today, do not seem to have learned their lesson either. , for example, spent $4.4 billion repurchasing shares in the third quarter even as its stock fell more than 25 percent.

, the bank’s chief executive, actually apologized for the move last month, conceding: “It would have been wise to wait. We’re sorry.”
730 2011-11-22 Chevron faces fines of as much as $83 million for an oil spill this month off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, the authorities said Monday. The fines reflect the government’s anger over Chevron’s handling of the spill. Chevron may also face additional fines and legal penalties, officials said. Haroldo Lima, head of the National Petroleum Agency, said the spill could complicate Chevron’s hopes of gaining access to new offshore exploration areas. Federal investigators said Chevron employees might also face prison terms. Chevron said in a statement that it had not yet received official notice of any fines and would respond if it did.
731 2011-11-22 A Russian official said Monday that if talks with the United States on missile defense broke down, Russia was prepared to deploy tactical missiles to Belarus, the southern region of Krasnodar and the western enclave of Kaliningrad. The deployment would ensure that American interceptor missiles could not neutralize Russia’s nuclear capability, a military official told Interfax, speaking on the condition of anonymity. President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Monday that Russia’s response to the American missile shield “should not close the door to negotiation.”
732 2011-11-22 Re “Scant Time in Training Is Devoted to Sexuality” (Doctor and Patient, Nov. 15): Training for medical students in working respectfully and openly with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (L.G.B.T.) patients is indeed vital to the health of this diverse community. So, too, is educating already practicing medical professionals and their office, clinic or hospital staffs. Well-meaning staff may think that by “treating everyone alike” they are being equitable. But if treating everyone alike means assuming everyone is heterosexual, it renders L.G.B.T. people invisible and fearful of being stigmatized.

Too often, the failure to clearly signal that it is safe to be open results in a L.G.B.T. person’s reluctance to communicate details of her life that her provider ought to know. Or it leads to avoidance: For example, lesbians are less likely than heterosexual women to get mammograms, although they are somewhat more likely to develop breast cancer.

The writer is executive director of the Mautner Project: The National Lesbian Health Organization.
733 2011-11-22 Excitement was high in the sold-out BIG cinema on East 59th Street in Manhattan on Sunday morning when Ballet in Cinema screened a live HD transmission of the Bolshoi’s production of “The Sleeping Beauty,” starring David Hallberg. Mr. Hallberg is making ballet history by becoming the first American to join this Moscow company permanently. The first glimpse of him in a pre-performance warm-up prompted some members of the cinema audience to applaud.

There was, of course, much more to see than Mr. Hallberg; but not all of it was good. This version of “The Sleeping Beauty” was first staged in 1973 by the Bolshoi’s former artistic director Yuri Grigorovich. Now, however, it has opulent new designs, with scenery by Ezio Frigerio and costumes by Franca Squarciapino. Despite the handsome color palette and sensitive evocation of the Baroque era, these suffer from an excessive use of gold and a largely unvarying set.

Lilacs do not grow over the sleeping palace at the end of Act I. The Act II hunt, usually set in the depths of a wood, occurs between the same splendidly colossal pillars as the rest of the ballet. The same Palladian circular temple stays at the center of the backdrop, flanked by the same Claude Lorrain-like harbor views in Act I and a hundred years later in Act III. The prince doesn’t pass through a sleeping forest.

These design features are symptomatic of other ways in which this ballet’s rich fabric of detail is diminished. It’s startling how little anyone in the Prologue spends time addressing the baby Aurora, even though this is her christening party. The Lilac Fairy (Maria Allash) maintains a unvaryingly glacial calm — implying that she’s recently had to pay too many calls of a similar nature to other troubled palaces in the neighborhood.

When Aurora (Svetlana Zakharova) awakes, she looks first not at the prince who has kissed her back to life (Mr. Hallberg) but at the audience, her parents and then the Lilac Fairy, who at last introduces her to the prince. At no point does she behave as if love or gratitude has entered her pretty head; this marriage has apparently been arranged for her, and she goes ahead with it like a polite automaton.
734 2011-11-22 I’VE always found it interesting how planes breed familiarity among strangers. I’m a pretty friendly guy, and I’ve always talked a lot. Years ago, I learned I was dyslexic, which, of course, explains how I used to have trouble in school. At best, I was an average student.

I’ve always had some trouble reading, and to compensate in college, I got really good at interviewing all my classmates. It was a way of coping and making sure I could find out different points of view about what we were studying.

Since I like to gather information by talking to people rather than just reading, I’m not one of those fliers who hate talking to seatmates. People are always interested in our work in helping communities build playgrounds, and it’s always great to hear people being so supportive. Most of my seatmates have fond memories of running around outside to play, and they wish more children today had the same opportunity.

You never know where a conversation may lead.

On a flight from Los Angeles to Washington I was seated next to a guy who worked as vice president of operations for a national restaurant chain. We started talking, and I invited him to stop by our offices to see if he had any suggestions for us. He did. And a few months later he became our board chairman. Another time, I got a huge donation, about $20,000, from a fellow passenger I was talking to.

I’ve had a lot of missed flights and canceled flights, just like any other business traveler. I hate when I do it to myself, though.
735 2011-11-22 Some doctors will do anything to draw attention to a good idea.

Dr. Ian Roberts of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine had his 22-year-old nephew create a Claymation cartoon figure, Tranman, whom he let bleed to death on YouTube to demonstrate the benefits of tranexamic acid, a cheap generic drug that helps blood clot.

Car crashes, farm machinery accidents and acts of violence are major killers of the world’s poor; 90 percent of trauma deaths are in poor or middle-income countries, and they are skyrocketing as car ownership increases.

Last year, a trial led by Dr. Roberts comparing 20,000 trauma patients at hospitals in 40 countries showed that a prompt injection of tranexamic acid could reduce hemorrhage deaths by 30 percent.

The British and American Armies were so impressed that they have just added the drug to their combat injury protocols, Dr. Roberts said in an interview.

But few civilian doctors have noticed. A recent survey of British hospitals cited last week in the medical journal The Lancet showed that only 12 of 412 accident victims likely to benefit had received the drug.

Low-profit generic drugs do not get big advertising budgets, so Dr. Roberts commissioned the cartoon, which he is recording in many languages to reach doctors in China, India, Brazil, Russia and Africa.
736 2011-11-22 G.M. and U.A.W. officials said they expected to hire 400 to 500 new workers as part of the first round of jobs coming back to the plant. Those workers would be paid entry-level wages, which start at about $15 an hour, a little more than half as much as full-wage workers earn.

“The best economic stimulus that there is a job,” Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, said at a ceremony at the plant Monday. “And Spring Hill is going to have plenty of new jobs coming in.”

A small number of the workers who were laid off when the plant closed remain in the area, about 30 miles south of Nashville. Others transferred to G.M. plants in other states, but of those who did, only 280 chose a relocation package that allowed them to automatically transfer back to Spring Hill when the plant reopened. About 800 others gave up that right by choosing to take a $30,000 lump-sum relocation payment, Ms. Clegg said in a conference call with reporters.

Most of the dislocated former Spring Hill employees now work in Lansing, Mich. Some left their families behind in Tennessee and were hoping the plant’s resurrection would mean they could return home.

Joe Ashton, a U.A.W. vice president who leads the union’s G.M. department, said it was unclear how many of the Spring Hill jobs would be on the entry-level pay scale because some of the former employees who transferred would undoubtedly want to stay at their new plant.

Ms. Clegg said the plan to build the Equinox in Spring Hill would not affect production of the vehicle at two plants in Canada where it is currently built. Sales of the Equinox are up 45 percent in the United States this year, and it has been consistently in short supply since being redesigned more than two years ago.

The reopening of G.M.’s Spring Hill plant was a major victory for the union in contract negotiations. The U.A.W. president, Bob King, said he believed getting the plant back online and persuading the three Detroit automakers to commit to adding nearly 20,000 new jobs over all was more critical than asking for wage increases.

“Collectively in the U.A.W., we made a decision to make the communities in America our No. 1 priority,” Mr. King told workers who gathered at the plant Monday for the announcement. “Most important to us was creating jobs for more Americans.”

Though the event was largely celebratory, the workers loudly booed Bob Corker, the Republican senator from Tennessee, who criticized the union during Congressional hearings in 2008 that led to the federal government bailouts of G.M. and Chrysler.

The mayor of Spring Hill, Michael Dinwiddie, called the plant’s reopening “a tremendous moment in history” and expressed his elation that G.M. was coming back to “this underdog of a city that almost everyone had written off.”
737 2011-11-22 The risk factors that predict stroke also predict mental impairment, a new study has found, even in people who have never had a stroke.

Researchers studied a nationally representative sample of 23,752 mentally normal, stroke-free men and women whose average age was 64, using health questionnaires and an in-home physical and mental examination.

They recorded seven risk factors for stroke: three types of heart abnormality, high blood pressure, the use of blood pressure medication, diabetes and smoking. Several of the authors have received payments from pharmaceutical companies. The report appears in Neurology.

The volunteers were followed for an average of more than four years. After eliminating from consideration any who had had a stroke, the researchers found 1,907 who were cognitively impaired. After controlling for age, sex, race and education, researchers found that high blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy independently predicted cognitive impairment, and the more risk factors a person had, the greater the risk for mental problems.

The lead author, Frederick W. Unverzagt, a professor of clinical psychology at the Indiana University School of Medicine, had this advice: “The early detection and treatment of high blood pressure is what we’re advocating for folks to preserve their cognitive health.”
738 2011-11-22 “One reason for the visit is to assure us that relations with Hamas don’t replace relations with us,” Hanan Ashrawi, a senior member of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said in an interview. She was at President Abbas’s office to help welcome the king to Ramallah.

To Israel, the king was eager to make clear that he would vigorously oppose the occasional talk there of Jordan as the alternative homeland of the Palestinians. And to Jordanians, the message was that when Mr. Meshal visits next week, it should not be misinterpreted.

“Bringing Hamas now to Jordan could be like dropping a boulder in a calm lake,” said Amer Sabaileh, a Jordanian political analyst in Amman. “I’m referring here to the Palestinian refugee camps that have been quiet during Jordan’s troubles in recent months. The king’s visit is a message to everyone that Khaled Meshal’s visit will be under the umbrella of Palestinian reconciliation and the Palestinian Authority,” not a gesture to the local Muslim Brotherhood.

Neither King Abdullah nor Mr. Abbas spoke to journalists during the visit. Instead, they sent their foreign ministers, Nasser Judeh of Jordan and Riad al-Malki of the Palestinian Authority, to a news conference. The ministers spoke about the “blessed” visit and the “historic” opportunity, but offered few specifics about its timing, meaning or content.

Mr. Judeh said anyone who thought Jordan could replace Palestine was mistaken.

Some on the Israeli right who want to hold on to the West Bank have long argued this. They note that more than half the inhabitants of Jordan are Palestinian and say there is no need for another state for them.

But Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, himself a man of the right, made a point recently of shooting down this argument. “Jordan is a stabilizing element in the region in comparison to what is happening in other nations,” Mr. Lieberman said during a discussion at the Parliament’s Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, responding to recent reports about discussions of Jordan as Palestine inside the government.

“Discussion about Jordan as a Palestinian state is against Israeli interests and against reality,” he went on. “Saying Jordan is Palestine opposes international borders as well as the peace accord we signed with them.”

At Monday’s news conference, Mr. Judeh, the Jordanian foreign minister, added that the king believed strongly in Palestinian reconciliation and that the ultimate aim was a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which could be achieved only through direct negotiations. He implied that while Israeli settlements were illegal, they could be stopped through negotiations to establish clear borders.

The Palestinians say they will not enter negotiations until settlement construction, both in the West Bank and in East Jerusalem, stops.

American officials continue to try to find a way around this to bring the two back to the table. Deputy Secretary of State William J. Burns met Monday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in Jerusalem on Monday as part of that effort. The prime minister’s office offered no other details and declined to comment on King Abdullah’s visit to Ramallah.
739 2011-11-22 Having hired trade lawyers to advise them on the Commerce Department case, Chinese solar panel manufacturers are increasingly gloomy about their chances of winning it, said Ocean Yuan, the president of Grape Solar, a big importer of Chinese solar panels that is based in Eugene, Ore.

Mr. Yuan said that Grape Solar was already negotiating with several Chinese manufacturers, whom he declined to identify, to perform final assembly of solar modules in Oregon. That would be the last step in new supply chains the Chinese industry intends to set up that would start in China then run through South Korea and Taiwan in hopes of avoid any new tariffs.

But because final assembly of solar panels is relatively low-tech manual labor, any Chinese expansion into Oregon would be unlikely to add many valuable American jobs.

Currently, the only Chinese solar panel assembly site in the United States is near Phoenix and owned by Suntech Power. That plant has a capacity equal to about 3 percent of the American market for solar panels.

Even before the filing of the trade case, Suntech had begun preparations to increase output at that operation, planning to add a work shift and double the size of the factory. But that will expand the current work force to 260, from 110 now. And even then, its capacity would serve only a small fraction of the American market. By contrast, companies based in China supplied more than 40 percent of the American market for installed panels in the third quarter of this year, according to GTM Research, a renewable energy consulting firm based in Boston.

Meanwhile, the Chinese solar panel industry is seeking legal advice on filing its own antidumping and antisubsidy trade case against the United States, industry executives in Beijing said Monday.

The most likely target would be American exports of polysilicon, the main material used in making conventional solar panels, said Wang Shijiang, a manager at the China Photovoltaic Industry Alliance based in Beijing.

The manufacture of polysilicon requires enormous amounts of energy — so much electricity that it typically takes the first year of operation of the panel to generate as much power as was required to make the polysilicon in it. The process requires superheating large volumes of material in electric-arc furnaces, including the melting of quartzite rock at more than 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.

The United States is one of the world’s largest producers of polysilicon, in states like Tennessee and Washington, because it has access to a lot of inexpensive hydroelectric power. And most of that polysilicon is exported.

China’s own polysilicon industry is controversial because it relies heavily on electricity generated by coal-fired power plants, and because weak environmental controls at Chinese polysilicon factories have resulted in toxic spills that have fouled streams and rivers.

Solar energy now contributes only about one-tenth of 1 percent of American electricity, but the amount of new solar wattage installed in the United States has been growing more than 70 percent a year since 2008, according to GTM Research.

American solar panel makers, though, have had trouble competing with the Chinese, whose export industry has helped push wholesale solar panel prices down sharply — to $1 to $1.20 a watt of capacity today, from $1.80 in January and $3.30 in 2008.

Three American solar companies that together represented one-sixth of American manufacturing capacity in the sector went bankrupt in August — including Solyndra, whose failure despite receiving more than $500 million in federal loan guarantees has fueled Republican criticism of the Obama administration’s green-energy policy. Four other American solar companies have laid off workers and cut output since spring of last year.

Meanwhile, formerly brisk demand for solar panels in Europe has slowed, as financially pressed governments have reduced subsidies. And so far, the Chinese domestic market for solar power remains tiny. As a result many Chinese manufacturers have a capacity glut, to which they have responded by shipping more panels to the United States, driving prices down.

The United States energy secretary, Steven Chu, noted in Congressional testimony last week that solar panel prices had fallen 70 percent in the last two and a half years. Mr. Chu was testifying as part of a Republican inquiry into Solyndra.

At the simplest level, there are four main steps in making a solar panel, also known as a solar module. Using molten polysilicon to grow crystals or cast blocks of polycrystalline silicon is the first step. The second step is cutting and polishing the material into thin, smooth wafers.

The third step involves chemically treating the wafer and adding electrical contacts to turn it into a solar cell. The last step involves connecting 60 or 72 solar cells together, covering them with glass, enclosing them in an aluminum frame and adding an electrical junction box.

The United States trade case was filed against solar panels for which either of the final two steps — turning the wafer into a cell or assembling cells into a panel — was done in China.

Mr. Yuan said that Chinese manufacturers wanted to keep wafer production in China, but were making plans to ship wafers to Taiwan or South Korea for conversion into solar cells, as one way to potentially avoid any new tariffs the United States Commerce Department might decide to impose. That step is the costliest, most high-tech and most highly automated task in producing solar panels, representing about a third of the total cost.

Chinese manufacturers have studied moving solar cell factories directly to the United States but have largely rejected it in favor of other countries because it takes so long to comply with the many American regulations for opening new factories that use a lot of chemicals, according to a Chinese industry executive, who spoke on condition that neither he nor his employer be identified.

Mr. Yuan of Grape Solar said cells made in Taiwan or South Korea from Chinese wafers would be shipped to the United States for final assembly — a step that typically accounts for a little less than a fifth of the total cost of making a solar panel.
740 2011-11-22 The actor Hugh Grant made accusations that went beyond just The News of the World, and the mother of a murdered teenager, Milly Dowler, also testified....
741 2011-11-22 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, a broad measure of the market, was down 1.86 percent to 1,192.98.

The Dow Jones industrial average was off 2.11 percent, or 248.85 points, at 11,547.31 and the Nasdaq composite index lost 1.92 percent.

But even with the stalemate in the “supercommittee,” a Treasury bond auction was heavily subscribed Monday, and the dollar and long-term bonds rallied.

“Because of the situation in Europe, there is a de-risking across the board,” said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial. “The sovereign debt problems and the lack of a credible, viable solution trumped the deficit problem in the U.S.”

After the market closed, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s both affirmed their existing ratings on American government debt.

S.& P., which downgraded the country’s AAA rating this summer based on what it saw as political brinksmanship, said the current AA+ rating would remain. Moody’s said its AAA rating would remain, but so would its negative outlook.

Some investors said the rating agencies would likely now focus on any attempts by Congress to replace or modify the automatic deficit cuts, known as a sequester, before they go into effect in January 2013. Another rating agency, Fitch Ratings, which said in August that it expected to take negative action regarding the U.S. debt if the committee failed to reach a consensus, said Monday it expects to complete its review by the end of the month.

“This was supposed to be a forum to showcase that politicians could come together and come up with a meager — which it really is — $1.2 trillion in cuts and revenue raises,” said Erik S. Weisman, a global bond portfolio manager at MFS Investment Management. “This is new information for the market, and the market needs to assess whether it is more or less likely that a grand bargain can be reached after the elections.”

Investors, however, were divided on what might happen to yields even if the credit rating were downgraded. This summer, after the S.& P. downgrade, Treasury yields fell, but many said that was largely a reflection of investors fleeing the euro zone.

Others said no matter how bad the political and fiscal situation appeared in the United States, its prospects still looked brighter than in some countries in the euro zone.

David Coard, head of fixed income at the Williams Capital Group, noted that when Standard & Poor’s downgraded the United States’ AAA credit rating in August, Treasury rates were low then as well.

“The flight to quality lives strong today,” said Mr. Coard. “We are still seeing a pretty strong bid for Treasuries out of the concern both for the European debt crisis and, to a lesser extent I think, the gridlock” over the deficit committee.

In the bond market, the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 11/32, to 100 10/32, and the yield fell to 1.97 percent on Monday, from 2.01 percent late Friday. Comparable German sovereign debt yielded 1.911 percent.

The yields on Spanish 10-year bonds rose to 6.472 percent on Monday, while the yield on Italian 10-year bonds held steady at 6.624 percent. The spreads between the French, Italian and Spanish yields, on the one hand, and the German yields, the European benchmark, on the other, have grown sharply this year, signaling market distrust of the bonds of euro zone members once thought to be safe.

The dollar was up against a range of currencies and the euro was little changed at $1.3534 from $1.3524 late Friday in New York.

“The market has been spooked over Europe and they are still not convinced that Europe is going to be able to pull out of this,” said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist for Rockwell Global Capital.

Moody’s warned in October that it might begin a review of France’s AAA rating, which is considered the most fragile of the top-rated European governments, if growing bailout costs threatened to overstretch its finances. On Monday, Moody’s said that rising borrowing costs and a deteriorating economic outlook were putting pressure on the nation’s creditworthiness.

Losing its status as a AAA-rated borrower would mean France’s borrowing costs would rise further and would weigh on the credit rating of the euro zone bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility. Standard & Poor’s already startled French officials when it erroneously sent an e-mail on Nov. 10 that suggested it had lowered the rating on France’s sovereign debt.

“Elevated borrowing costs persisting for an extended period would amplify the fiscal challenges the French government faces amid a deteriorating growth outlook, with negative credit implications,” Alexander Kockerbeck, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in a weekly report, noting that weak economic growth would further weigh on the country’s efforts to control spending.
742 2011-11-22 HONG KONG — Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar’s main opposition movement, is likely to run for Parliament in a coming election, senior members of her party said on Monday. It would be the first time Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate who is the face of democracy in Myanmar, has run for office.

Her party, the National League for Democracy, announced last week that it would rejoin the political system after more than two decades campaigning against the military’s control of Myanmar, which is also called Burma. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi will be among candidates contesting 48 vacant seats in Parliament, U Win Tin, a senior member of her party, said by telephone from Yangon, the main city in Myanmar.

Her candidacy is contingent on the party’s successfully reregistering and her winning support from the party’s central committee, Mr. Win Tin said.

“She has much confidence that she can carry out the job in Parliament,” Mr. Win Tin said. “She will carry the day.”

The elections, which have yet to be scheduled by the government, will be the first electoral test for the National League for Democracy since 1990, when the party won an overwhelming victory, though Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was not a candidate. The military government ignored the results of that election and ruled by fiat over the next two decades, a period of economic stagnation and political isolation for the country.
743 2011-11-22 When Pfizer cut its research budget this year and laid off 1,100 employees, it was not because the company needed to save money.      In fact, the drug maker had so much cash left over, it decided to buy back an additional $5 billion worth of stoc...
744 2011-11-22 9:35 p.m. | Updated      12:55 p.m. | Updated...
745 2011-11-22 PRICE--Barry. Beautiful boy, away from us 36 years. You're always in our hearts. Love & kisses, Mommy, Daddy, Jodi & Blair...
746 2011-11-23 Three N.F.L. games are just part of the Thanksgiving Day festivities....
747 2011-11-23 Three N.F.L. games are just part of the Thanksgiving Day festivities....
748 2011-11-23 Those ads, in which people meet a version of themselves from the future, became well known, even serving as parody material for "Saturday Night Live." The new campaign at Lincoln is based on the theme, "You're in charge."...
749 2011-11-23 Those ads, in which people meet a version of themselves from the future, became well known, even serving as parody material for "Saturday Night Live." The new campaign at Lincoln is based on the theme, "You're in charge."...
750 2011-11-23 Although Samsung can't entice people to wait in line like Apple fans for a new phone, the company can fight back with advertising. Enter the new sure-to-go-viral video by Samsung: "Why Wait? The Next Big Thing Is Already Here." The ad pokes fun at...
751 2011-11-23 A committee of unsecured creditors supports the Dodgers' plan to expedite the sale of television rights....
752 2011-11-23 A committee of unsecured creditors supports the Dodgers' plan to expedite the sale of television rights....
753 2011-11-23 Operators of legal medical marijuana dispensaries in California are nervous in the face of stepped-up federal government efforts to shut them down....
754 2011-11-23 A popular Brooklyn pizzeria passes a health inspection, after complaining about its closing....
755 2011-11-23 A popular Brooklyn pizzeria passes a health inspection, after complaining about its closing....
756 2011-11-23 It seems clear that the European Union wants to avoid setting off credit-default swaps because of the aggregate exposure among European banks to Greek and other European sovereign debt....
757 2011-11-23 It seems clear that the European Union wants to avoid setting off credit-default swaps because of the aggregate exposure among European banks to Greek and other European sovereign debt....
758 2011-11-23 A new online calculator can help you determine if you qualify for an updated mortgage refinance program....
759 2011-11-23 A new online calculator can help you determine if you qualify for an updated mortgage refinance program....
760 2011-11-23 A perfect tailgate party dessert recipe: mini apple pies....
761 2011-11-23 A perfect tailgate party dessert recipe: mini apple pies....
762 2011-11-23 By signing a nondisclosure agreement, Microsoft has formally lined itself up as a potential bidder for Yahoo, though the software giant may be more interested in helping to finance a consortium of buyers....
763 2011-11-23 By signing a nondisclosure agreement, Microsoft has formally lined itself up as a potential bidder for Yahoo, though the software giant may be more interested in helping to finance a consortium of buyers....
764 2011-11-23 Well-regarded companies like Netflix, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard have collectively spent over $100 billion buying back their stock, and have lost a lot of money on the deals....
765 2011-11-23 Well-regarded companies like Netflix, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard have collectively spent over $100 billion buying back their stock, and have lost a lot of money on the deals. Now some of those companies say they need to repair their balance sheets ...
766 2011-11-23 JPMorgan Chase has agreed to buy a 4.7 stake in the London Metal Exchange for 25 million, or $38.9 million, from the bankrupt brokerage MF Global....
767 2011-11-23 JPMorgan Chase has agreed to buy a 4.7 stake in the London Metal Exchange for £25 million, or $38.9 million, from the bankrupt brokerage MF Global....
768 2011-11-23 Newt Gingrich embraced a third rail of Republican politics Tuesday night, saying that the country should find a way to make millions of illegal immigrants legal....
769 2011-11-23 Newt Gingrich embraced a third rail of Republican politics Tuesday night, saying that the country should find a way to make millions of illegal immigrants legal....
770 2011-11-23 An owner’s dispatches from the front lines.
771 2011-11-23 An owner’s dispatches from the front lines.
772 2011-11-23 And many Republicans, including Mr. Romney, have attacked Mr. Obama for saying during a speech in May that the “borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states.”

That was a shift — albeit a subtle one — in policy, many analysts said, in publicly endorsing using the borders before the 1967 war as a starting point for talks on a two-state solution. But the language was not extraordinary, as other administrations have pursued a deal using the same borders, with mutually agreed land swaps, as a basis for talks.

And while Mr. Netanyahu sharply criticized that speech, Mr. Obama has firmly taken Israel’s side on a number of disputes, such as vigorously opposing efforts to win recognition for Palestinian statehood at the United Nations.

Politically, the Republican candidates are eager to attract political and financial support from Jewish voters and donors, traditionally a strong base of support for Democrats. They are also competing to woo evangelical voters in the Republican Party who view unwavering support for Israel as a critical position.

At another point in Tuesday’s debate, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, asserted that Mr. Obama had “essentially handed over our interrogation of terrorists to the A.C.L.U.”

Mrs. Bachmann said the C.I.A. “has no ability to have any form of interrogation for terrorists,” adding that when the so-called underwear bomber was apprehended in a failed bomb plot on an airliner landing in Detroit, “he was given Miranda warnings within 45 minutes.”

The first part of Mrs. Bachmann’s statement was apparently a reference to Mr. Obama’s executive order shortly after his inauguration to close the C.I.A.’s controversial “black site” prisons abroad. However, according to news accounts, the C.I.A. continues to interrogate terrorism suspects abroad, including Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame, a Somali accused of having ties to Islamist militant groups; he was questioned for months aboard a United States naval vessel before being flown to New York this summer for trial.

As for Mrs. Bachmann’s second statement, about the case of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who was pulled off a jet in Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009, Mr. Abdulmutallab claimed in court that he had not been read his Miranda rights before being questioned in a hospital. An F.B.I. agent confirmed this account. Mr. Abdulmutallab pleaded guilty to all charges last month. TRIP GABRIEL

In discussing immigration, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Mexico was in danger of becoming a staging ground for terrorist attacks on the United States.

“We’re seeing countries start to come in and infiltrate,” Mr. Perry said. “We know that Hamas and Hezbollah are working in Mexico, as well as Iran, with their ploy to come into the United States.”

Mr. Perry was referring to the recent alleged plot by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps to assassinate Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the United States, a plot that would have used hit men from a Mexican drug cartel. Hamas and Hezbollah are supported by Iran and are sometimes seen as proxies for Tehran.

But according to a 2010 State Department report, Mexico is not a staging ground for any terrorist group against the United States.

After the debate moderator, Wolf Blitzer, opened the program by giving a sample introduction — he told the candidates that Wolf Blitzer was actually his real name — he urged the candidates to do the same. And Mitt Romney used his turn to make a joke.

“I’m Mitt Romney, and yes, Wolf, that’s also my first name,” he said.

But that is not quite the case. In fact, Mr. Romney’s full name is Willard Mitt Romney. He was named after J. Willard Marriott, the founder of the Marriott hotel chain and a close friend of Mr. Romney’s father. (On internal campaign memos, he is frequently referred to by the initials W.M.R.)

However, Mr. Romney goes by Mitt, and that is what his friends and staff members often call him. (Aides also call him “The Gov,” referring to his time as the governor of Massachusetts.)

So, the final verdict: technically false, but basically true.
773 2011-11-23 “The courts have made it very clear that these type of devices can’t be used indiscriminately and should be used only when the target poses a physical threat to someone,” said Michael Risher, staff attorney for the A.C.L.U. of .

To Kamran Loghman, who helped develop pepper spray into a weapons-grade material with the in the 1980s, the incident at Davis violated his original intent.

“I have never seen such an inappropriate and improper use of chemical agents,” Mr. Loghman said in an interview.

Mr. Loghman, who also helped develop guidelines for police departments using the spray, said that use-of-force manuals generally advise that pepper spray is appropriate only if a person is physically threatening a police officer or another person.

In New York, for example, a police commander who sprayed several women in an Occupy demonstration last month faced disciplinary proceedings. The says pepper spray should be used chiefly for self-defense or to control suspects who are resisting arrest.

To many watching from the sidelines, pepper spray remains an obscure agent, even as the video of its spraying at Davis has become the defining image of an otherwise amorphous Occupy movement.

Pepper spray — its formal name is oleoresin capsicum, or O.C. spray — finds its power in an inflammatory agent that occurs naturally in more than 300 varieties of peppers, including cayenne, and that vary by their degree of hotness. (Black pepper is not part of the capsicum family.) When sprayed in someone’s face, it causes an intense burning sensation of the eyes, resulting in temporary , and restricts breathing, induces coughing and leaves the person at least temporarily incapacitated.

Pepper’s use as a deterrent dates to the ancient cultures in China and India, which sometimes used it in war, sometimes for torture. Because it was effective, cheap and widely cultivated, pepper persisted as a weapon through the ages, mostly for self-defense. Some Japanese women kept it tucked into their kimonos in case a man made aggressive advances.

It is now used the world over in its spray form, under numerous brand names, mostly to foil criminal suspects but also for self-protection against both humans and animals.

But the public rarely witnesses such scenes, and that was one of the reasons that the video from Davis was so powerful. It captured many elements — seated protesters being doused with a bright orange spray by campus officers, whose body language appeared surprisingly casual.

“What makes this so oddly interesting is that those officers don’t look like the police in 1968,” said Robert Thompson, a professor of popular culture at . They are so casual, he said, “it’s as if they were called because someone was sunbathing naked on the quad.”

All of these elements, Mr. Thompson said, added up to a riveting image. “All of these contradictions are jammed into that little video, where we have this casual disenfranchising of rights, but it is a new era, where pepper spray is used as opposed to batons and guns.”

That nonaggressive posture by the police, he said, has fueled some of the widespread online reaction to the video, in which thousands of Internet users recast an image of one of the officers, inserting it digitally into famous paintings. Suddenly, on Web pages, blogs and messages, the officer, identified as Lt. John Pike, appeared to be standing in the field in ’s “Christina’s World,” spraying Christina as she sprawled on the grass. He cropped up, too, in the harsh angles of Picasso’s “Guernica,” and in scenes from movies. There he was zapping on a mountaintop in “The Sound of Music.”

It also prompted several satiric reviews on Amazon of pepper-spray products.

“It really is the Cadillac of citizen repression technology,” one reviewer wrote. “This is space age domination technology,” wrote another. “Works on citizens. AND ALIENS!!”

But inevitably, the image of Lieutenant Pike was inserted into more sobering images from real life, like the famous photograph of the Vietnamese girl running naked down the road after planes dropped napalm on her village. He also stood in the 1970 picture of a woman at Kent State, her arms raised in horror over the body of a student shot to death by National Guardsmen.

Those jarring images, Mr. Thompson said, were a reminder that “this is a new generation of subduing people, and while the decision to use it may not be right,” he added, “we are in the age of pepper spray, not the age of real bullets.”
774 2011-11-23 A billboard promoting a budget brand of vodka was taken down Tuesday amid a firestorm of criticism that its advertising slogan was anti-Semitic.

The advertisement, which was posted on a two-sided billboard overlooking the West Side Highway near 130th Street late Monday to promote Wodka vodka, also featured a long-haired dog wearing a yarmulke and a smaller dog wearing a Santa hat.

Within hours, the ad was criticized on the Internet and by officials. In a statement, Ron Meier, the New York regional director of the Anti-Defamation League, called the advertisement “crude and offensive.” He said it reinforced the anti-Semitic stereotype “that Jews are cheap.”

“To use the Jewish holiday in dealing with issues of money is clearly insensitive and inappropriate,” he said.

Wodka is known for advertising that is intended to draw attention by generating controversy. A previous ad carried the text “Hamptons quality. Newark pricing.”

The tactic, known as shock advertising, is common among brands that are small or do not spend much on marketing.
775 2011-11-23 He went on to say that Darrel W. Dochow, former regional director for the Western region of the agency and a financial regulator for more than 30 years, had “specifically directed” Mr. Perry to backdate IndyMac’s report to regulators to include an $18 million cash infusion that would make it appear well capitalized.

The shift masked IndyMac’s problems for any investors trying to assess its soundness and allowed it to continue attracting large deposits crucial to its operations.

The S.E.C., in its suit against Mr. Perry, contends that more details about the cash infusion should have been disclosed, though the commission did not accuse him of accounting fraud.

Mr. Dochow was not accused of wrongdoing by the commission or any other prosecutor, though his role has been criticized by the inspector general of the , which oversees some bank regulators. It does not appear that Mr. argument persuaded the commission to back off. The S.E.C., as is its custom, did not elaborate.

A representative for Mr. Perry said he did not care to discuss the case further, but his lawyer described the lawsuit in an e-mail as “exceedingly weak, unfair and meritless.” Mr. Dochow, who retired as a regulator in 2009 at age 59, said: “There’s a lot more than what’s been written, but I can’t talk. I could go to jail.”

The IndyMac collapse, with its multibillion-dollar cost to the fund, highlights the role played by federal overseers of financial companies in the years leading up to the crisis. It also raises questions about whether government officials should be held accountable for dubious conduct related to the failure of an institution and whether the government has avoided pursuing some cases because of the roles regulators have played. For years, some bank overseers have maintained cozy ties with the institutions they monitor, treating bankers like clients because of the fees that pay to be regulated.

The Justice Department could not cite any regulator that it had named in a prosecution related to the crisis. However, Mr. Dochow’s conduct was referred to Justice for possible criminal charges in 2009, according to Eric Thorson, the inspector general of the Treasury Department. Mr. Thorson said Mr. Dochow’s action “was clearly improper and wrong.” A spokeswoman for the Justice Department in declined to comment on the case and on whether the department investigated regulators for possible wrongdoing.

IndyMac is not the only institution whose questionable accounting was approved by regulators in recent years, though it is by far the largest of several highlighted by the Treasury inspector general.

Even if regulators are involved in wrongdoing, they have some . Internal disciplinary measures are rarely taken against regulators who perform badly in their jobs, say government officials.

Some regulatory shortcomings may be chalked up to innocent mistakes and failures to spot problems. Still, some economists and lawyers would like the government to examine regulatory actions leading up to the financial crisis to determine whether officials actively participated in improper behavior. And, they say, in cases like Mr. Dochow’s, penalties should be levied on overseers who acted improperly.

“The word conspired needs to be used here,” said Edward J. Kane, a finance professor and regulatory expert at who is familiar with the case. “Dochow conspired with IndyMac management to misrepresent this. He was trying to fool certainly the F.D.I.C. and the public, and anyone who lost a dollar as a creditor to this institution was harmed by relying on something they had every right to rely on.”

Longtime defense lawyers say one reason there have been so few prosecutions related to the crisis is because financial executives often solicited advice from outside parties — like accountants and lawyers — and experts shelter them from some potential charges because they can argue they relied on the advice. Regulatory advice may be a similar shelter against prosecution.

Mr. Dochow had had a long run as a financial regulator when IndyMac ran into trouble. He started out in 1972 as an assistant national bank examiner with the . He rose through the ranks and in 1985, became a senior regulator with the Federal Home Loan Bank of and later with the Federal Home Loan Bank System’s Office of Regulatory Activities in Washington.

It was during his time in that office that Mr. Dochow played a central role in trying to stop a regulatory attempt to rein in Lincoln Savings and Loan, an institution run by Charles Keating, with $5.5 billion in assets. After regulators in uncovered fraudulent sales and other improprieties at the institution, Mr. Dochow worked in Washington to avoid the issuance of a cease-and-desist order, the normal course of action in such a case, according to records handed over to Congress. The institution failed in 1989 at significant cost to taxpayers, and Mr. Keating was convicted on multiple fraud charges, some later overturned. Mr. Dochow was demoted, according to a half dozen regulators who had worked with him, but remained a bank regulator.

Once again, he worked his way up in the organization, which became the Office of Thrift Supervision. By September 2007, he had been promoted to head the Western region, reporting directly to the agency’s top officials in Washington.

In that position, Mr. Dochow oversaw a host of institutions that had dived headlong into risky mortgage lending. Among them were Countrywide Bank, IndyMac Bancorp and , three of the most aggressive lenders — and largest flameouts — in the crisis.

Mr. Dochow was known within the O.T.S. to be bank-friendly. One former examiner said: “His approach was negotiating with the banks, as opposed to regulating the banks, and viewing them more as clients, as opposed to people or entities that needed to comply.”

According to three former examiners who worked with Mr. Dochow but who requested anonymity because they feared retaliation from regulatory colleagues, he would sometimes negotiate between the banks and their lower-level O.T.S. overseers, arguing that an institution should be allowed to keep one component of its regulatory rating high if another was dropping. That way, the composite score representing a bank’s financial standing, would change little, if at all.

At other times, Mr. Dochow exhibited a close relationship with a savings and loan association when it was under investigation. In 2007, when the attorney general of New York was investigating Washington Mutual for its possible role in appraisal fraud, Mr. Dochow called Kerry K. Killinger, the institution’s chief executive, to discuss the matter, according to e-mail messages released by a Senate subcommittee in the spring of 2010. Washington Mutual had hired a law firm to do an internal investigation. Mr. Dochow told Mr. Killinger that he wanted to rely on Washington Mutual’s investigation as much as possible as opposed to having O.T.S. officials do a completely separate one.

Mr. Dochow told his superiors that he planned to leverage the Washington Mutual report but noted that “we need to be able to defend that we have done our own independent examination.”

Mr. Dochow retired in 2009, with his full government pension, according to the Treasury inspector general. Because of its woeful regulatory record during the recent mania, O.T.S. was abolished last summer. Of its remaining employees, 95 were transferred to the F.D.I.C., and 670 to the ’s office.

The S.E.C. case against Mr. Perry, IndyMac’s longtime chief executive, and two former chief financial officer centers on disclosures made from February through mid- of 2008. The disclosures related mostly to IndyMac’s capital and liquidity. The bank collapsed in July of that year and was taken over by the F.D.I.C., which had to pay insured depositors $10.7 billion.

By early May, it had become clear inside IndyMac that it could no longer be considered “well capitalized” unless money was shifted from its holding company.

This meant that IndyMac could not accept so-called brokered deposits, large amounts of money from investors looking for the highest possible rates of return. Brokered deposits represented just over a third of IndyMac’s deposits; without them, it would have been out of business.

And so on May 9, Mr. Perry instructed his deputies to shift money into the bank from the holding company and account for $18 million of it as if it had been there on March 31.

Mr. Dochow as well as IndyMac’s auditors, , had signed off on the move, according to the Treasury inspector general. And Mr. Perry highlighted the regulatory approval in a document on his Web site.

”Mr. Dochow, with full knowledge of the circumstances, communicated O.T.S.’s approval,” Mr. Perry wrote. “Mr. Dochow also directed Mr. Perry to amend the bank’s thrift financial report to reflect the $18 million receivable.”

D. Jean Veta, a partner at Covington & Burling who represents Mr. Perry, said in an e-mail message that IndyMac’s financial statements followed accounting rules and that Mr. Perry “was a completely transparent leader who always favored more disclosure rather than less.” But the O.T.S., the Comptroller’s office and the inspector general’s office at the Treasury Department have all said the backdating of the cash infusion was improper.

Mr. Thorson, the Treasury inspector general, said last week that Mr. Perry and Ernst & Young could reasonably say that they acted with permission of the O.T.S. “I’m sure they said ‘O.K., that’s the guy who calls the shots; the umpire has called the shots,’ “ Mr. Thorson said.

Indeed, when asked about the IndyMac accounting, a spokesman for Ernst & Young said last week that it was “approved by the bank’s regulator, not Ernst & Young.” And there has been no enforcement action against the accounting firm.

Mr. Thorson said that his referral for a case against Mr. Dochow was given to Ranee Katzenstein, an assistant attorney in , and that Ms. Katzenstein told his office she did not intend to pursue a prosecution. When reached by phone, Ms. Katzenstein declined to say why. A spokesman for her office said she could not discuss the case. The spokesman said the investigation into Mr. Dochow’s actions was still open, although he cautioned that it might not yield a case.

Another backdated capital shift with regulator approval took place in 2008 at a savings and loan association in , according to Mr. Thorson’s report. In August of that year, O.T.S. officials directed BankUnited to backdate capital that it had moved within its holding company. The report does not list their names, but it does include their titles, indicating that they were Timothy T. Ward, the deputy director for exams; Scott M. Polakoff, the agency’s senior deputy director; and Jack Ryan, the Southeast regional director.

In another instance in July 2008, O.T.S. officials objected to a backdated capital shift at Century Bank, also of Florida, but did not require corrective action.

Mr. Polakoff was placed on leave in March 2009 pending a review of the capital backdating by the Treasury department. He now works as executive managing director at FinPro Inc., a financial services consulting firm in Liberty Corner, N.J. Mr. Polakoff defended his actions last week, saying that with BankUnited, it was a “rather innocuous accounting mistake.”

Mr. Ward is a senior official at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; through a spokesman, he declined to comment.

Mr. Ryan, who retired in 2009, said on Tuesday that he had pointed out at the time that the capital shift violated accounting rules, though he says he now regrets that he did not fight forcefully for his position.

“I think the regulators have to abide by the rules,” he said. “And, yeah, if they tell them, ‘forget the rule, go ahead and do it’ — they shouldn’t be doing that.”

Mr. Dochow, interviewed only briefly in front of his home outside Seattle, said he could not talk, but added that “I’m not sure there’s more to say.”

Regulators like Mr. Dochow, of course, would have the chance to publicly defend themselves if accusations against them ever resulted in court cases.

It would be difficult and unusual for the Justice Department or the S.E.C. to bring a case against a bank regulator, longtime securities lawyers say. Regulators enjoy some immunity from allegations of wrongdoing under the Securities Exchange Act, which says that you cannot file a case against an officer of a United States agency for violation of a securities law if the officer was acting within the scope of the job. For financial regulators like Mr. Dochow, a conflict comes into play when banks run into trouble — on one hand, regulators try to help banks maintain their stability. But, on the other hand, securities laws require companies to be transparent in their disclosures to public investors.

Jeffrey M. Kaplan, a lawyer at Kaplan & Walker in Princeton, N.J., said: “In a case of a regulator contributing to misrepresentations made to shareholders, you could have individual criminal liability. But those cases are pretty rare.” More common are cases involving a bribe or another element of corruption.

Congressional oversight could help identify regulatory misconduct, but such efforts have been less than fruitful. Indeed, when Senate investigators tried to get information about the capital backdating that O.T.S. had allowed at IndyMac and other institutions, officials from the agency were not forthcoming, said a former Senate aide who was not allowed to speak publicly about the investigation.

Any financial crisis case that named a regulator probably would turn into a huge political battle, because it would question many of the nontransparent acts that bank regulators take while trying to save banks, said Denise Voigt Crawford, former commissioner of the securities board and now a law professor at .

In any prosecution of bank regulators, she said, “you’d have the Justice Department in a fight with the policy goals of the Department of Treasury. Particularly in this environment, you know the banking regulators would fight it tooth and nail.”

Some longtime lawyers go further and say the overall scarcity of cases related to the financial crisis might be in part because regulators want to avoid scrutiny of their own kind.

“It’s not just one 30-year-old wunderkind who was responsible for the financial crisis,” said , who was the attorney general in the 1990s and now is a lawyer at Lippes Mathias Wexler & Friedman. “Once you start pulling the string through in these complex cases, you might be surprised what you find at the other end.”

Mr. Vacco continued: “What’s at the end of the string? The defense may be that ‘at the highest echelons of the financial institutions, we were in regular contact with the government.’ “
776 2011-11-23 “What is going to happen next spring to those 25 people and their families when we pull up stakes?” the diplomat said. “Think about how many outposts there are like that.”

Over all, income per person in Afghanistan is $528 a year, but Ms. Bassinette said that figure conceals pockets of worse poverty because aid money has not been evenly spread: money has poured into unstable areas while bypassing more peaceful ones.

The World Bank forecast echoed a report last June by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which questioned the assumption that plentiful aid and higher incomes for local Afghans would foster security, a major part of the counterinsurgency strategy. Both reports raise the possibility that many foreign aid projects give little more than a temporary economic jolt to Afghans.

Afghanistan faces a difficult decision over whether to go ahead with plans to expand its security forces to 352,000 soldiers, or to scale back to leave more room in the budget for education, health care and infrastructure. There will not be enough money for both, the World Bank report indicates.

“If the security side is covered, the civilian side will suffer; if the civilian side is covered, security will suffer,” Ms. Bassinette said.

The report is based on moderately optimistic assumptions, including the development of a large copper mine at Aynak in Logar Province and an iron mine in Bamian Province. Many Western observers doubt that the country will be secure enough to develop the mines and ship ore abroad any time soon.

Even if the mines begin to produce income, the country will run an annual deficit of $7 billion, and its economic growth will be 5 to 6 percent by 2018, considerably less than the current pace of 9 to 10 percent, the report forecast. Without the mines, growth will be slower still, about 4 percent a year, the bank said, and could fall to zero or below if security deteriorates.

The Afghan government’s ambivalence about foreign aid further complicates humanitarian work. It wants the money but is sensitive about seeming unable to care for its people.

Recently a group of organizations, including Save the Children, Oxfam and CARE, released a statement saying that Afghans in 14 areas of the country were at risk of hunger and disease in the coming months because of drought and bad harvests, and would be unreachable after winter snows set in. Instead of welcoming the group’s effort to raise money, Mohammed Asif Rahimi, the agriculture minister, appeared to take offense, viewing it as a criticism of his ministry’s efforts. He held a news conference on Tuesday to berate the groups.

“Recent NGO fund-raising publicity has incorrect data and ignores the important progress so far,” he said in a statement on Tuesday, referring to nongovernmental organizations.

Three coalition soldiers died in separate episodes in southern Afghanistan on Monday, according to a NATO statement.
777 2011-11-23 There are incongruities atop incongruities in “The Sound of Mumbai: A Musical,” a documentary by Sarah McCarthy that has its debut Wednesday night on HBO2.

The first is that the film depicts a choral performance of “The Sound of Music” in an unlikely setting: at the National Center for the Performing Arts in Mumbai. The performers are Indian children, singing in English.

Most incongruous of all is that though the theater is opulent and its patrons affluent, the children are from the slums. With the music of Rodgers and Hammerstein as an undercurrent, the film follows them into their homes, giving glimpses of hard lives with little prospect for improvement.

“It would be easy to say, if they believe in their dreams, they will do it,” says Johannes Steinwender, an Austrian music professor who comes to Mumbai to conduct the show. “But this is not America. This is India.”

The film focuses on an 11-year-old boy named Ashish, who is given a small solo in the performance and invests considerable hope in what this will do for his future — a sort of “Slumdog Millionaire” syndrome. It certainly does a lot for his present: among other things, he has a falling out with his jealous best friend.

The film sometimes piles the pathos on a little too thickly, but it ends on a note of stark realism. Even irrepressible Ashish seems to know that the well-received performance is more likely to make for a pleasant memory than for a life-changing event.
778 2011-11-23 Campbell Soup said on Tuesday that its first-quarter net income fell 5 percent as the company worked to turn around its soup business in the United States and expand internationally.

Profit was better than expected, mainly as a result of lower spending on advertising and fewer shares outstanding.

But revenue missed expectations as volume declined on higher prices.

The company, like other food makers, has raised prices to offset higher costs for ingredients and other materials.

“Consumers continued to be impacted by the challenges in the global economy” during the quarter, Denise M. Morrison, its chief, said in a call with analysts. “There’s little doubt that the pronounced caution and restraint that have characterized consumer behavior since the onset of the financial crisis are now the ‘new norm’ for the food and beverage sector.”

The company is trying to regain lost ground after several years of declining soup sales. Soup sales in the United States fell 4 percent during the quarter as higher prices hurt volume. Shoppers have curbed their soup consumption, stopped stocking pantries or shifted to competitors’ brands.

Campbell is in the early stages of a turnaround plan that includes adding high-end soups and broadening offerings in its snack, beverage and other categories.
779 2011-11-23 His audience in the courthouse, including two busloads of university students in white shirts, listened intently to the explanation Cambodians have been seeking from the trial for why the Khmer Rouge ravaged their country.

“We don’t know which part is wrong and which is right,” said Radet Hak, 21, a law student. “I want to hear more later.”

The court sessions this week, including statements by prosecutors and defendants, are being broadcast around the country.

Mr. Nuon Chea is one of three top Khmer Rouge leaders being tried on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity at the tribunal, which is backed by the United Nations.

Frail and unsteady on his feet, Mr. Nuon Chea seemed to swell in the witness box with the certainty that he had been wronged by history. He accused the court of being “unfair to me since the beginning,” because the trial was addressing the acts of the Khmer Rouge without reference to their cause and context.

“I must say only the body of the crocodile is to be discussed, not its head or tail, which are the important parts of its daily activities,” he said.

He did not address in detail the horrifying catalog of brutality and mass killings presented by prosecutors, saying merely that “whatever was indicated in the opening statements is not true.”

The prosecutors have accused him and his co-defendants, Ieng Sary, 86, and Khieu Samphan, 80, of command responsibility for atrocities committed according to their plan and with their involvement. A fourth defendant, Ieng Thirith, 79, the former minister of social affairs, was dropped from the case last week when the court found her to be unable to participate because of dementia.

In an earlier case, Kaing Guek Eav, 69, known as Duch, the commandant of the main Khmer Rouge prison, Tuol Sleng, was sentenced in 2010 to 35 years in prison, later reduced to 19 years.

“My position in the revolution is to serve the interests of the nation and the people,” Mr. Nuon Chea said. “Oppression and injustice compelled me to devote myself to fight for my country. I had to leave my family behind to liberate my motherland from colonialism and aggression and oppression by thieves who wish to steal our land and wipe Cambodia off the face of the earth.”

Another law student at the courthouse, Vessna Roschan, 21, said: “I don’t believe him, because 1.7 million people died. Nuon Chea says, ‘I am protecting the Cambodian people, I protect Cambodian culture,’ but I don’t believe him because many people in my family died, around 24 people.”

Mr. Nuon Chea began his statement with an account of the early years of the Cambodian Communist movement and its struggle to remain independent of the larger and more powerful Vietnamese Communist Party during the years of the Vietnam War.

He said the Vietnamese Communists, who had hoped to control their Cambodian counterparts, were disappointed when Phnom Penh, Cambodia’s capital, fell to the Khmer Rouge on April 17, 1975, two weeks before the fall of Saigon to the Vietnamese Communists.

After the war was over, he said, “Vietnam’s cadres still continued to remain discreetly on Cambodian soil in order to conquer this country in accordance with the ambition to occupy, annex and swallow Cambodia and rid Cambodia of her race and ethnicity” — an ambition he said continued today.

In Cambodian society, suspicions of Vietnam run deep, and it is not unusual for people to imagine the involvement of Vietnamese agents in local events.

Mr. Nuon Chea said this suspicion of subversives and traitors was part of the reason for the evacuation of Phnom Penh and other cities immediately after the Khmer Rouge victory, forcing most people into the countryside, a policy that prosecutors said cost thousands of lives.

He denied that the Khmer Rouge had tricked and then murdered officials of the former government who surrendered after the overthrow, saying that impostors disguised in the black outfits of the revolutionaries were responsible.

He said the American bombing of Cambodia in 1969 radicalized many Cambodians and fueled the growth of the Khmer Rouge, but he blamed Vietnam for all that went wrong after the group took power.

“The Vietnam factor is the main factor that caused confusion in Democratic Kampuchea from 1975 to 1979,” he said, using the formal name for the country under the Khmer Rouge government.

He said nothing to the court about the systematic atrocities described by prosecutors, nor about their contention that he had personally ordered the torture and killing of particular prisoners.

But in video recordings played by the prosecution before he testified, he is heard acknowledging the killings, saying that “if we had shown mercy to these people, our nation would have been lost.”

“We didn’t kill many,” he continued. “We only killed the bad people, not the good.”
780 2011-11-23 Merck has agreed to pay $950 million and has pleaded guilty to a criminal charge over the marketing and sales of the painkiller Vioxx, the company and the Justice Department said Tuesday.

The negotiated settlement, which includes resolution of civil cases, was the latest of a series of fraud cases brought by federal and state prosecutors against major pharmaceutical companies.

By the time Vioxx, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1999, was pulled off the market in 2004 because evidence showed that it posed a substantial heart risk, about 25 million Americans had taken the drug.

In a statement on Tuesday, Merck said that it had previously disclosed the seven-year investigation by the United States attorney in Massachusetts and had charged $950 million against its earnings in October 2010.

Merck agreed to pay a $321 million criminal fine and plead guilty to one misdemeanor count of illegally introducing a drug into interstate commerce, the Justice Department said in a news release. The charge arose from Merck’s promotion of Vioxx to treat rheumatoid arthritis before the Food and Drug Administration approved it for that purpose in 2002.
781 2011-11-23 PARIS — The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court said Tuesday that the son of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the former Libyan leader, along with his co-defendant, Colonel Qaddafi’s onetime military intelligence chief, may be tried in Libya as long as the international court is involved.

It was not immediately clear if the prosecutor’s statement meant the court would have to agree to hand over its cases against the two men to the Libyan authorities, or if international judges would participate in any proceedings inside Libya.

The prosecutor, Luis Moreno-Ocampo, spent Tuesday in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, meeting with officials in the post-Qaddafi government, including the minister of justice, Mohammed al-Allagi. The minister told reporters that Libya would not send Colonel Qaddafi’s son, Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, who was once Libya’s heir apparent, to the international court in The Hague for trial. “In a nutshell, we are not going to hand him over,” the minister said.

More details would be disclosed on Wednesday morning in Tripoli, according to a court official in The Hague, after the new government of Libya had been announced.

At issue are different types of proceedings planned against both Mr. Qaddafi and the former military intelligence chief, Abdullah Senussi. The international court in June issued arrest warrants against the two men, as well as Colonel Qaddafi, for narrowly based charges of crimes against humanity.

The charges were linked only to the violent crackdown against civilian protesters and dissidents in February, which evolved into a rebellion that toppled Colonel Qaddafi in August. He was killed last month in the custody of rebel captors, making the Hague indictment against him moot. His son and intelligence minister were captured this past weekend, so are still subject to the arrest warrants.
782 2011-11-23 In his most blatant criticism yet of ’s political repression, the prime minister of said for the first time on Tuesday that President Bashar al-Assad of Syria should resign, raising the pressure on Mr. Assad from a country that Syria had once counted as its friendliest neighbor and economic partner.

The criticism by the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of Mr. Assad was not totally unexpected, given Mr. Erdogan’s increasing exasperation with Mr. Assad’s intransigence over the political uprising against him, now in its eighth month. But Mr. Erdogan’s comments were notable for his explicit language. He likened Mr. Assad to the self-delusional dictators of history who met violent ends, most recently Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of .

“Just remove yourself from that seat before shedding more blood, before torturing more and for the welfare of your country, as well as the region,” Mr. Erdogan said of Mr. Assad in a televised statement at his party meeting in , the capital.

“It is not heroism to fight against your own people,” Mr. Erdogan said. “If you want to see someone who has fought against his own people, look at Nazi Germany, , Mussolini, Ceausescu of . If you do not learn your lesson from them, look at the Libyan leader, who pointed his gun against his own people and, only 32 days ago, got killed in a way that none of us desired, after using the same phrases that you use.”

Mr. Erdogan’s criticism of the Syrian government came as Turkey’s president, Abdullah Gul, began a three-day visit to , which also has been outspoken in seeking to isolate Mr. Assad.

In another development, the human rights committee of the overwhelmingly approved a resolution on Tuesday condemning Syria for its crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators, Reuters reported. The resolution, drafted by Britain, and , was supported by 122 nations, including 13 Arab states and Turkey.
783 2011-11-23 As the sides swapped accusations, the state attorney general requested an investigation into the document destruction, which is now under way.

Conflict over abortion had already been escalating this year in Kansas, the staging ground for some of the most divisive battles in the nation over the issue. Gov. , a Republican who strongly opposes abortion, approved a series of restrictions, most notably establishing new regulations on clinics that nearly forced two of the three abortion providers in the state to shut down before a federal judge blocked them. Another rule prohibiting Planned Parenthood from receiving federal family planning money was also blocked by a federal judge.

Peter B. Brownlie, president and chief executive of the local affiliate, praised the dismissal of the most serious charges and said the organization would prevail on the remaining ones. “There’s no question that political opponents of Planned Parenthood and abortion would have been emboldened by a conviction, particularly on a felony charge,” he said.

The case emerged from a long investigation by one of the state’s most polarizing elected officials, Phill Kline, who had used his position as Kansas attorney general and later as Johnson County district attorney to crusade against abortion providers, earning a series of official rebukes along the way for his tactics, including a recommendation last month by a state board that he be prohibited from practicing law in the state.

Though the investigation, started in 2003, initially centered on explosive allegations that abortion providers were not reporting all cases of child , the charges Mr. Kline eventually filed in 2007 were far less wrenching, including that Planned Parenthood failed to maintain copies of abortion paperwork (a misdemeanor) and, fearing detection, completed the paperwork after an investigation was begun (a felony).

At issue was the fact that the copies of the “termination of ” reports filed with the state and those kept at the clinic had different handwriting. Planned Parenthood said the reports were different because the copies were made by hand rather than on a machine.

As the case was being prepared for trial, Steve Howe, the Johnson County prosecutor who took up the case in 2009 after defeating Mr. Kline in a Republican primary, discovered that the records that were to be used as evidence had been destroyed years earlier, the originals by the Department of Health and Environment and the only authenticated set of copies by the attorney general’s office. As a result, Mr. Howe told a judge this month that there was no longer enough admissible evidence to proceed with 49 charges, including 23 felonies.

Mary Kay Culp, executive director of Kansans for Life, which opposes abortion, was among those who noted that the governor at the time, , now secretary of health and human services, was a strong supporter of abortion rights and that the attorney general then, Steve Six, was her appointee. “It’s beyond belief that evidence was purposely destroyed, but I believe that’s what happened,” Ms. Culp said.

But supporters of abortion rights disputed the allegations that the documents were intentionally, rather than routinely, destroyed, and questioned why they had not been requested and secured previously. “It’s a red herring to avoid having to walk into court, present the case and lose on the merits because there was never any crime,” said Pedro Irigonegaray, a lawyer for Planned Parenthood.

An official investigation is under way at the request of Derek Schmidt, the Republican attorney general who defeated Mr. Six in 2010. He wrote to the Shawnee County sheriff this month requesting an inquiry, because documents pertaining to abortion-related investigations and prosecutions had been destroyed by the attorney general’s office in 2009 after Dr. , an abortion provider who was later murdered by an abortion opponent, was acquitted of criminal charges.

“Sufficient questions exist to require a full and complete investigation of this matter to determine what actually happened,” Mr. Schmidt wrote.

A spokeswoman for Health and Human Services said Ms. Sebelius “had no knowledge of the document shredding issues.” Mr. Six, whose nomination to the federal bench was blocked because of opposition from abortion opponents, did not return a call for comment.

Mr. Kline, the former prosecutor, who now teaches at Liberty University School of Law in , said he believed the destruction revealed pervasive corruption in state government. “How does it end?” he asked. “I don’t know, but I don’t expect the judicial system to get to the truth.”
784 2011-11-23 BEIJING — With global climate talks set to begin next week, China on Tuesday issued the most comprehensive document yet on its plans and negotiating positions on emissions.

Although much of the information has been released before, it is the first time the data has been presented comprehensively — part of China’s strategy to make its accomplishments better known ahead of the talks, which begin on Monday in Durban, South Africa. China, the world’s largest contributor to carbon emissions, highlighted its success in reducing emissions per unit of gross domestic product, an indicator that its industries are becoming more energy efficient. The country’s overall carbon emissions have been rising, however, with the growth of its industries.

The report also gives a rare nod to nongovernmental organizations, which usually are frowned upon by China’s authorities. The report mentions favorably “Earth Hour,” a project by the World Wildlife Fund, and praises the work of another private organization, the Energy Foundation. The report also indicates that China will follow its previous position of pressuring developing countries to do more.

Speaking Tuesday as the white paper was released, officials asserted that China and other developing countries had taken serious steps to curb emissions while developed countries lagged.

“We hope nations of the world translate their political willingness into concrete actions,” Xie Zhenhua, the head of the Chinese delegation to the Durban meeting, said at the news conference.

The report said that China achieved a 20 percent reduction in carbon emissions between 2005 and 2010 per unit of gross domestic product and planned to cut another 17 percent by 2015.
785 2011-11-23 PIE might be the iconic Thanksgiving finale, but it’s not the only option for a sweet ending.

There are plenty of other stunning seasonal confections out there, some of which can be made days ahead and can get better with age. And many don’t require making a crust, which can be overwhelming to a cook already stressed out by the turkey wrestling, the fridge space-reorganizing, and the general chaos in the run-up to Thanksgiving dinner.

One of my favorite pie alternatives is bundt cake. A hearty spice-filled bundt cake made from grated apples and toasted nuts, then soaked in whiskey syrup, defies the cliché of Thanksgiving dessert, yet keeps well within its harvest-time paradigm.

Plus, a bundt cake, which is really just like an oversize muffin baked in a fancy pan, is easy to whip up. The booze bath helps keep it fresh, meaning you can bake it ahead and eat the leftovers for days after the turkey roaster has been washed and put away.

Any houseguests arriving hungry at the door before the meal can snack on it. And you can serve it, toasted, with cream cheese for breakfast or brunch all weekend long.

Even better, if you’re the guest, you could whip one up to bring with you.

Your hosts can put it on the table with all the other autumnal desserts, then savor the leftovers when you’re long gone.

Or you can do what I did this year, and bake this cake for absolutely no reason at all. I had a yen for a rich, spicy, fruit-filled cake that I could keep out on my fancy cake-stand and nibble at until it disappeared. Usually, banana bread would fill the bill. But after an over-exuberant shopping trip left me with a pile of apples softening on the counter, I made an apple cake instead.

Since coming up with the recipe, I’ve baked it twice, once with bourbon and once with rye whiskey. The bourbon was sweeter and smoother; the rye, more tangy and brighter. But any liquor that you like will work, particularly the brown ones, which I think go with the warm flavors of nuts and spices.
786 2011-11-23 A recipe for apple bourbon bundt cake...
787 2011-11-23 Information is the lifeblood of capital markets. In the movie ''Wall Street,'' Gordon Gekko demanded confidential information from a young would-be Master of the Universe, Bud Fox, played by Charlie Sheen. The value of stocks is based on informati...
788 2011-11-23 TOKYO - The Tokyo Stock Exchange, Japan's largest, on Tuesday announced a $1.1 billion merger deal with the Osaka Securities Exchange that would create the world's third-largest exchange, as measured by the value of listed stock     The deal, whic...
789 2011-11-23 8:00 p.m. | Updated      After a slight drop in attendance in 2011, the Yankees announced new ticket prices for the 2012 season on Tuesday, with both good and bad news for fans, depending on where they want to sit....
790 2011-11-23 Hedge funds, the golden children of finance, are having a very rough year.     For one, they are not making money the way they used to. Returns for a number of funds, including those of star managers like John A. Paulson, have fallen by as much as...
791 2011-11-24 By air, sea and auto, travelers have new ways to reach and roam the Caribbean this season....
792 2011-11-24 By air, sea and auto, travelers have new ways to reach and roam the Caribbean this season....
793 2011-11-24 Roger Federer defeats Mardy Fish, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, to finish unbeaten in round-robin play at the ATP World Tour Finals....
794 2011-11-24 Roger Federer defeats Mardy Fish, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, to finish unbeaten in round-robin play at the ATP World Tour Finals....
795 2011-11-24 The 17-year-old star of "American Horror Story," is a Maui wowie in Jill Stuart....
796 2011-11-24 The 17-year-old star of "American Horror Story," is a Maui wowie in Jill Stuart....
797 2011-11-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
798 2011-11-24 Banks must be transparent to the regulators and to the public, and if their complexity makes this difficult, they should be made smaller and simpler, an economist writes....
799 2011-11-24 Banks must be transparent to the regulators and to the public, and if their complexity makes this difficult, they should be made smaller and simpler, an economist writes....
800 2011-11-24 The series, which began in 1968 with “Dragonflight,” includes “Dragonquest,” “Dragonsong,” “Dragondrums,” “The Masterharper of Pern” and, most recently, “Dragon’s Time,” written with her son Todd McCaffrey and published this year.

As a stylist, Ms. McCaffrey was not uniformly esteemed. Reviewing “Dragonsdawn” in The New York Times Book Review in 1989, Gerald Jonas wrote of her, “Few are better at mixing elements of high fantasy and hard science in a narrative that disarms skepticism by its open embrace of the joys of wish fulfillment,” but faulted her “awkward similes” and “formulaic descriptions.”

But the immense commercial success of “Dragonriders of Pern” more than outweighed any criticism. The books sold millions of copies and have inspired a cornucopia of Internet fan fiction and a spate of scholarly studies.

The world of Pern became so all-encompassing to those who entered it that it gave rise to a concordance, “The Dragonlover’s Guide to Pern,” by Jody Lynn Nye, with Ms. McCaffrey.

Anne Inez McCaffrey was born in Cambridge, Mass., on April 1, 1926. She earned a bachelor’s degree in Slavonic languages and literature from Radcliffe, and trained as an actress and opera singer before her writing life transported her to operatic worlds of another kind.

Her first novel, “Restoree,” was published in 1967. A satirical work of science fiction for adults, it lampooned the genre’s portrayal of women as helpless chattel.

The novel’s plot, as summarized in the reference work Authors and Artists for Young Adults, is set in motion when its strong, savvy heroine, Sara, “is snatched from Central Park by a low flying space ship.”

Sara awakens to find herself “restored” — that is, clad in an entirely new body — in a world that combines great technological sophistication with a retrograde social order.

Ms. McCaffrey’s honors include the two loftiest awards of her genre: a Hugo, which she won in 1968 for her novella “Weyr Search,” later incorporated into the Dragonriders series; and a Nebula, for the novella “Dragonriders,” also incorporated into the series.

Her non-Pern books include “The Ship Who Sang”; “PartnerShip,” with Margaret Ball; and “The City Who Fought,” with S. M. Stirling.

Ms. McCaffrey’s marriage to Horace Wright Johnson ended in divorce. Besides her son Todd, she is survived by another son, Alec Johnson; a daughter, Georgeanne Kennedy; and grandchildren.

She was the subject of a biography, “Anne McCaffrey: A Life With Dragons,” by Robin Roberts, published in 2007 by the University Press of Mississippi.

Ms. McCaffrey, an avocational horse breeder, was often asked, Why dragons? “You can get closer to a dragon than you can to a horse,” she said in an interview with National Public Radio in 2007. “Horses are smart within their own boundaries, but dragons are very smart.”
801 2011-11-24 The departing president of Kyrgyzstan, the small but strategically important Central Asian country that houses a vital American air base for supplying the NATO war effort in neighboring Afghanistan, expressed deep concern on Wednesday about the potential for a contagious economic collapse in Afghanistan when foreign military forces withdraw.

The president, Roza Otunbayeva, whose term expires in a week, said she feared that Afghanistan had grown so accustomed to protracted deprivation and war that it was unprepared for adjusting to life without the enormous foreign military presence, which has also become an important economic underpinning in Afghanistan. The American-led NATO forces, which have been battling a Taliban insurgency for more than 10 years, are scheduled to depart in 2014.

Without the development of businesses in Afghanistan besides its illicit but lucrative opium trade, Ms. Otunbayeva said, the economic impact of the NATO pullout could destabilize Afghanistan and its neighbors by unleashing a flood of unemployed Afghan refugees, armed extremists and crime.

“I think the region is in dismay over what will happen, how to cope with all these problems,” she said in an interview at The New York Times. If the NATO strategy to defeat the Taliban consisted of “only military operations, and withdrawal in 2014, of course it will be worse,” the president said.

Ms. Otunbayeva said that Kyrgyzstan had been helping to train Afghan civilians in customs protocols and microfinance — efforts that have been appreciated by the United States — and that other countries should be doing “everything possible to integrate Afghans into a normal life.”
802 2011-11-24 Retail analysts are expecting a decent holiday season, with many estimating that sales will increase about 3 percent over last year, with contributions from shoppers across income levels. Yet the Friday after Thanksgiving, the kickoff to the highest-revenue weeks for stores, is expected to lay bare the increasingly parallel universes of retailing in America, the analysts said.

“Those in a more modest income situation are the people who are going to the Wal-Marts and the Best Buys and the Targets at 8, 9, 10, 11 p.m. with little kids in tow because they can’t afford a baby sitter,” said Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners, a retail consultant firm. “It’s a very unpleasant shopping experience, frankly, for a lot of people.”

Meanwhile, many affluent shoppers will avoid the scene altogether, he said. “The women who are shopping the fourth floor at Saks are not Black Friday shoppers,” he said.

Still, a deal is a deal. High-end consumers and the people racing for the Black Friday special on $9.44 blenders at Wal-Mart continue to have at least one thing in common: they know hot holiday products go quickly.

For that reason, lines outside some Best Buy stores began forming Wednesday morning (the chain will sell a limited number of $500 high-definition televisions for $200 starting at midnight Thursday). And Neiman Marcus sold out of pewter-color Ferraris (luggage set matching the interior included) at $395,000 each within 50 minutes of making 10 of them available through its “fantasy” holiday catalog late last month.

Analysts said that luxury stores had outpaced discount and midtier stores in sales growth at stores open at least a year for most of 2011. Yet, all American consumers were still showing surprisingly strong spending patterns, and they expected that to hold going into the holiday season.

“From an overall level of spending, we’re going to be well ahead of where we were last year,” said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities who tracks consumer spending. “That’s surprising to a lot of folks, because we’re stuck with 9 percent unemployment.”

Mr. Vitner expects holiday sales to grow 5.2 percent this year, a higher estimate than many analysts predict. He said holiday spending had increased nearly every year recently, except for 2008, and that the population growth and even modest income growth helped buoy that pattern.

Low- and middle-income shoppers “are the folks that are really getting squeezed — in the third quarter of this year, real incomes actually declined and the savings rate declined,” he said. Yet he expects their spending to remain steady, even if they have to pull money from savings or charge items to credit cards. The economy, he said, “will affect lower-income shoppers in how they shop, not how much they buy — I think they will hone in on the discounts.”

And there are plenty of discounts, promotions and financing programs as lower-end stores try to get people to spend.

Wal-Mart’s profits declined in the third quarter as it kept many prices low so its shoppers could afford them. “There is a real sense that the economic strain is taking its toll,” Michael T. Duke, Wal-Mart’s chief executive, told analysts. It also brought back its layaway program in October for the first time in several years, and executives said the program, which lets people pay for gifts over $15 over several weeks, has brought extra traffic into the stores.

Kohl’s, like Wal-Mart, has increased its marketing to highlight its discounts, said Kevin Mansell, the chief executive and chairman.

“If you talk to people who are in my business, people who analyze our business, they would consistently tell you that stores at the mall, especially anchor stores, are more promotional than they were last year,” he said. “Now that may not be true at the high end — the strength of the business or the higher-end consumer has allowed them to do a little less promotion — but that’s high end.”

At Saks Fifth Avenue and other luxury stores, full-price selling has generally been increasing. So the few deals at luxury stores on Friday are not so much bargains as token nods to the Black Friday tradition. Saks is offering half off cashmere sweaters, Neiman Marcus is giving discounts on a future shopping trip when people spend more than $100, while Nordstrom says it does not have big promotions planned.

High-end retailers “don’t have to do anything desperate — it’s kind of hard to see a 5 a.m. queue outside of a Fifth Avenue luxury retailer,” said Chris Donnelly, a senior executive in Accenture’s retail practice. “If you don’t have to put it on sale and people are still going to buy it, why put it on sale?”
803 2011-11-24 “I talk to my American agent, and everyone wants a job, wants to try and come over and play,” said Real Madrid’s American sharpshooter, Jaycee Carroll, a Wyoming native who has risen through the ranks of the Spanish league after starring at Utah State. “A lot of them don’t have any idea what they’re getting into, but that’s part of coming over.”

And what are they getting into? Carroll elaborated: “I’ll call my family from home and I’ll be like: ‘Hey, I’m in Serbia. What am I doing out here in Serbia?’ Whoever thought coming from Evanston, Wyo., I’d ever be in Belgium, Serbia or Spain, for that matter?”

Then again, whoever thought that instead of an N.B.A. season, Kevin Love and Luol Deng would entertain the idea of joining Deron Williams on the Besiktas team in Turkey (Love ended up rejecting an offer) or that Dirk Nowitzki, according to ESPN, would weigh several offers in his native Germany while pondering the idea of playing for a big Spanish team like Real Madrid.

Pau and Marc Gasol have said they would like to play for their former club, Barcelona, if the season is canceled, and recent rumors had Kevin Durant considering playing in Spain, Israel or Germany. Even Dwyane Wade appears interested in playing overseas.

Asked if more players would be trickling over to Europe if the lockout is not resolved, Joey Dorsey, one of four players to spend all of last season in the N.B.A. and play in last Sunday’s Madrid doubleheader, responded emphatically.

Players still interested in moving to Europe — assuming the N.B.A. lockout cannot be overcome in the weeks ahead — will have to try to find spots on rosters that have already been set, and on teams where finances are often tight.

It may not be easy, although clubs like Real Madrid and Barcelona, thanks to their soccer prowess, see themselves as global brands and might be receptive to midseason big-name acquisitions even if they would cause some recalibrating of team chemistry.

Meanwhile, some players who have already moved overseas are finding their way.

Williams of the Nets, the only N.B.A. superstar currently playing in Europe, has adjusted, overcoming a rough start. His Besiktas team had a 12-game winning streak snapped last weekend, and Williams responded with a 50-point performance on Tuesday as Besiktas got back in the victory column.

Andrei Kirilenko of the Utah Jazz and CSKA Moscow has the highest player rating in the prestigious Euroleague, a competition between Europe’s best teams. (He recently sustained a concussion and a broken nose in a nasty fall). In fact, in each of the first five weeks of the Euroleague, the most valuable player has been a locked-out N.B.A. player. Kirilenko and Nicolas Batum of the Portland Trail Blazers have won the award twice, while Jordan Farmar, who played with the Nets last year, has won it once.

Kyle Singler, the Detroit Pistons’ rookie-in-waiting, is 11th in the Spanish league in scoring for Lucentum Alicante.

Other players have not been so fortunate. While Omri Casspi will return to Maccabi Tel Aviv if the lockout is not resolved, one of the players he was traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers for, J. J. Hickson, could not adapt in Israel and returned home. DaJuan Summers returned to the United States from Italy, DeJuan Blair from Russia and Earl Clark from China.

And last Sunday, the Nuggets’ J. R. Smith hurt his knee in a Chinese league game. The injury did not turn out to be as serious as originally thought, but Smith’s desire to seek medical attention away from the team landed him in hot water.

There are also those who have used the lockout as a chance to go home. Spurs guard Tony Parker is playing for the team he partly owns in France, ASVEL Villeurbanne. A friend and countryman, Ronny Turiaf of the Knicks, has joined him.

Danilo Gallinari, the former Knick and current Nugget, has returned to Italy to play for his former team, Olympia Milano. Ersan Ilyasova (Bucks) and Mehmet Okur (Jazz) are playing in their native Turkey.

The four N.B.A. players who played in the doubleheader at Palacio de los Deportes (Rudy Fernandez, Serge Ibaka, Kevin Seraphin and Dorsey) largely played well. A fifth, Reggie Williams, nursed a knee injury.

And the two teams with N.B.A. players won. Real Madrid defeated Lagun Aro, 82-74, in the early afternoon, and visiting powerhouse Caja Laboral beat Estudiantes, 74-54, in the nightcap.

Ibaka, the Oklahoma City Thunder big man, recently signed a two-month contract with Real Madrid and is still working his way into the rotation, although both he and Seraphin (Washington Wizards/Caja Laboral) showcased a remarkable athleticism that is not all that common in the Spanish league.

“My adaptation is getting better every day,” Ibaka said. “It’s better to play than just to stay at home. You can’t just keep working every day. You need to play, too.”

Meanwhile, despite shooting 2 of 11 from the floor, Fernandez, the former Portland Trail Blazer acquired by the Dallas Mavericks on draft day, led Real Madrid to victory by doing everything else. He dished out six assists, collected four steals and sank all nine of his free throws.

And the public address announcer effusively rolled the “R” in Rudy.
804 2011-11-24 Marazzi, the Italian tile company, opened its first New York showroom this month, in the Flatiron district.

The company is known for producing tiles that replicate natural materials like marble or wood, said Maurizio Piglione, the chief executive officer. For example, the Treverk collection ($7 a square foot) resembles commonly used flooring materials like oak, teak and wenge. Tiles in the Vanity collection ($8 a square foot) look like metal — the rusted steel, for instance, of Richard Serra’s sculptures.

Other collections include SistemA ($9 a square foot), on display above, porcelain tiles in saturated colors that are made of 45 percent recycled material and have a crystalline finish, so they glitter subtly in the light.

Marazzi, 30 West 21st Street (Avenue of the Americas), (212) 256-1500 or marazzi.it/en.
805 2011-11-24 On Saturday, architecture and design enthusiasts will have a chance to peek inside five impressive private residences in East Hampton, N.Y.

The homes, which range from an 1853 Federal-style building to a starkly modern house with an arc-shaped roof by the architect Maziar Behrooz, will be open to the public for the 27th annual East Hampton House Tour, a fund-raiser for the East Hampton Historical Society.

Richard Barons, the group’s executive director, said, “I do believe, this year, that the committee has pulled together a particularly rich smorgasbord.”

Tickets are $65 in advance or $75 on Saturday. Admission to the opening-night cocktail party on Friday, which will be held in an 1891 Queen Anne-style home designed by the architect William B. Tuthill, starts at $150.
806 2011-11-24 WASHINGTON — A federal judge dismissed a bankruptcy suit for the city of Harrisburg, Pa., on Wednesday, saying that the filing, made by the City Council last month, was illegal.

The ruling, by Judge Mary D. France, was a blow to the Council. A majority of its members had fought Harrisburg’s mayor, Linda D. Thompson, for months, saying she was seeking too little from creditors. A failed trash incinerator project has saddled the city with about $310 million in debt, more than quadruple its annual budget.

Brad Koplinski, a Council member who had voted to file for bankruptcy, said he and his colleagues were trying to decide whether to appeal Wednesday’s decision.

“We’re disappointed,” Mr. Koplinski said by telephone from Harrisburg. “Bankruptcy is the only thing that would guarantee a solution with shared pain.”

The City Council had tried to muscle in on the process of fixing the city’s chaotic finances, which had been run by Mayor Thompson, who is backed by the state and Gov. Tom Corbett. The Council had argued that filing for bankruptcy would be fairer to the city’s taxpayers, as it would give the city more control over how it pays off its creditors.
807 2011-11-24 Today we will look at a variety of books that might appeal to a player below expert level on your gift list. They were published by Master Point Press except where indicated.

Eddie Kantar has written “Take All Your Chances at Bridge 2,” a sequel to his book of two years ago that won the Intermediate Book of the Year award from the American Bridge Teachers’ Association. It contains 100 declarer-play problems on which to sharpen your skills.

This year’s murder mystery novel involving bridge players is “Deadly Endplay” by Ken Allan.

Paul Thurston’s “Bridge at the Breakfast Table” is a collection of the author’s newspaper columns.

“The Hog Takes to Precision” by Victor Mollo (who died in 1987) contains 11 amusing articles not previously published in a book. The best player in Mollo’s menagerie of characters, the Hideous Hog, persuades the Rueful Rabbit to learn the Precision Club system, which reduces the necessity for bidding judgment. The other 21 articles have appeared before in books, but a couple have new deals.

“Who Has the Queen?” by Frank Stewart (self-published) contains some 200 declarer-play and defense problems.
808 2011-11-24 “Israel and ‘Pinkwashing,’ ” by Sarah Schulman (Op-Ed, Nov. 23), is the perfect example of critics of Israel refusing to accept any good news related to that country.

The Israeli government is undoubtedly highlighting Israel’s largely progressive stance on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights and thriving gay culture.

That’s what’s called public diplomacy, and it’s what all countries, including the United States, do.

To label this as somehow sinister must mean that the United States is engaged in “jazzwashing” or “techwashing” when it uses music or touts its high-tech innovators to audiences and opinion makers overseas.

Israel, like any other democracy, has its flaws. Its settlement policy is destructive, the occupation of the West Bank is untenable and its government is furthering the country’s isolation and distancing it from its original vision of being a “light unto the nations.” It is also quite advanced on lesbian and gay rights; we can only hope to make such progress here one day.
809 2011-11-24 “I’m convinced,” he added, “if Mozart could have used an iPad, he would have done it.”

Musicians more and more are using iPads and laptops instead of traditional paper scores, especially pianists. The Borromeo String Quartet makes it a regular practice. Wireless foot pedals or a quick screen tap make it easier to turn pages. Downloading scores for study or performance saves about 30 or 40 pounds of luggage while on the road, said Mr. Kahane, who is music director of the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra.

Mr. Kahane said the iPad would be impractical for a Mahler symphony, say, with its much larger scoring, and there is the danger of equipment malfunction. But tapping also eliminates the possibility of turning two pages at once, tearing out a leaf or pulling the whole score off the stand, as can happen, he said. He uses a stylus or other program features to mark the scores, many of which he downloads from open-source sites. Mr. Kahane said he had about 100 scores on his iPad, including Mozart’s Symphony No. 33, the work played on Tuesday and scheduled for performances on Friday, Saturday and Tuesday.

“It’s been just a life-changing thing for me in many ways,” he said, but not for performing on the piano: he memorizes his recital programs.

Mr. Kahane discussed another issue: the practice of leading a Mozart symphony from the keyboard. There is debate about the practice, and Mr. Kahane acknowledged that he did not know of specific documentary evidence supporting his approach. But, he said, it was clear that Mozart conducted from the keyboard when performing his piano concertos or leading his operas.

“We know for a fact that Mozart certainly didn’t conduct from the podium or use a baton,” Mr. Kahane said. “We can be reasonably certain that for a good part of his career, he generally conducted from a keyboard instrument.” The inclusion of harpsichords in the list of instruments in orchestras Mozart was known to have performed with, he added, supported the theory.

But more important is the musical contribution that conducting from the keyboard makes. “It is really there as much, or more, for the musicians on stage as it is for the audience,” Mr. Kahane said. The keyboard functions like a big band’s rhythm section — “part of the motor,” he said — and allows the conductor to lead with sound as well as with physical gesture.

“By playing with the orchestra instead of standing on the podium waving my arms,” Mr. Kahane said, “I’m able to create more of the atmosphere and style and sound and rhythmic character that is appropriate to the music.”
810 2011-11-24 I become increasingly troubled each time I watch a news feed of the University of California, Davis, police firing pepper spray directly into the faces of student protesters. Peaceful protest was part of the culture in which I came of age as a college student in the late 1960s. My generation learned that challenging convention was an empowering and effective way to promote social change.

I would like to believe that my daughter, now a college sophomore, would be safe to express her views by engaging in peaceful civil disobedience on campus. She should not have to fear an assault by the security force that is paid to protect her.

Is this really my United States of America?
811 2011-11-24 For the price, though, the app could be better.

For one, it should offer results, analysis and betting lines that are updated more frequently. Last Friday evening, for instance, Picks Insider had yet to acknowledge in all sections of the app Denver’s victory the previous night over the New York Jets.

At that point, the app had updated the weather forecast for Sunday’s games, but here I would have expected some analysis. Partly cloudy skies and temperatures in the mid-30s were forecast for the game between the Buccaneers and the Packers in Green Bay, the app said. Do Florida teams show any statistical tendencies when playing in near-freezing temperatures?

For people who participate in friendly wagers, maybe the most helpful feature is the weekly “confidence pool picks” page, which shows the picks for each of the publication’s nine editors, along with an indication of how confident they are in each pick.

It also shows the editors’ success rates for the season, so you can copy the picks of the ones with good track records (as I essentially did).

It’s like watching Uncle George make his picks. Almost.

Is it worth $90 — or even $60 on Android? It probably depends on how much is at stake. If, by this point in the season, you stand a decent chance of winning significant cash or prestige in your office pool, it’s at least worth considering.

And mobile access to this sort of information may be especially meaningful if you work outside an office, or you like to make picks while tailgating outside the stadium.

If, however, you spend enough time on a desktop computer, you can get nearly as much good information from Football Outsiders, which offers free, and closely watched, statistical analysis to bettors and fans. (The site also offers picks for $40 annually.)

And there are good free apps to consider as well.

IOdds (free on Apple), for instance, is the creation of Geoff Kulesa, a well-known online sports handicapper and a regular contributor to ESPN.

The app, which will appear on Android next year, provides current odds and scores for major sports, including professional and college football and basketball, the N.H.L. and Major League Baseball, among others.

If you believe in the wisdom of crowds, iOdds also publishes the percentage of bets being placed on each team. (Of course, that strategy backfired on those who picked the Ravens to beat the Seahawks two weeks ago.)

As with Picks Insider, iOdds is geared more toward bettors who incorporate the point spread (the number of points given to underdogs).

Because it is intended more for bettors than casual pool participants, some of the terminology will puzzle recreational gamblers, and iOdds offers no help. Quick tip: “ATS” refers to “Against the Spread,” while the “Moneyline” refers to the amount of money you must bet to win a specified amount.

If you can understand such concepts, though, iOdds offers great value.

Virtual Bet (free on Apple) is similar in its reliance on more sophisticated betting vernacular, but it, too, is worth checking. It isn’t nearly as comprehensive as iOdds, but it scores points for simplicity.

From one page, you can select the N.F.L. match-ups for the week, and check the moneyline, fractional and decimal betting lines for each game. (Fractional and decimal lines are more popular abroad, while the moneyline is the dominant format in the United States.)

The foreign flavor extends to other parts of the app, where you can find odds on international soccer, rugby and cricket leagues, among others.

Android users who want a free alternative to Picks Insider should look for ScoresAndOdds, which offers at-a-glance information on odds and betting trends. Plus, you can easily track your own picks, which is a feature lacking in the other free apps I tried.

After my first week of app-aided football picks, the results were mixed at best. I correctly picked nine of 14 games, while Uncle George picked 11.

Maybe he should build an app of his own.

HarvestMark Food Traceability (free on Apple and on Android) helps track the origin of fresh foods carrying the HarvestMark label.... PMonitor ($2 on Android) helps parents keep track of children through location-tracking technology. The app also includes a fall-detection feature, for adults who want to monitor the safety of older or disabled people... . Auto-Tune Phone ($2 on Apple) works during calls, so you can sing in tune (or close to it) while on your iPhone or iPod Touch or iPad. The price includes 30 minutes of VoIP (or Voice over Internet protocol) calling time.
812 2011-11-24 Report of the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry
813 2011-11-24 “Given the intrinsic link between strategic offensive and defensive arms, conditions for our withdrawal from the New Start treaty could also arise,” he said.

Several times in his address, Mr. Medvedev reiterated his call for further negotiations between Russia and the United States, but such talks seem unlikely to change the strongly held views on each side.

At issue is the Europe-based system being developed by the United States that it says would defend against a potential missile attack by Iran. The United States has reached agreements to place 24 interceptor missiles in Romania, as well as a sophisticated radar system in Turkey.

Russia believes that that system could be used against its intercontinental ballistic missiles and has demanded assurance in writing that this would not be the case. The United States has said it will not agree to any restrictions on its missile-defense efforts.

Mr. Medvedev raised the issue directly with President Obama this month at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Hawaii. After those face-to-face talks, Mr. Medvedev said, “Our positions remain far apart.”

Since then, he and other Russian officials have made a steady stream of public statements warning of the consequences of a failure by the two sides to reach some accommodation.

American officials insist that the Europe-based missile-defense system was intended to address a threat from Iran — a position that was reiterated by the White House and the Pentagon after Mr. Medvedev’s televised remarks on Wednesday.

“In multiple channels, we have explained to Russian officials that the missile-defense systems planned for deployment in Europe do not and cannot threaten Russia’s strategic deterrent, said Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security Council.  “Implementation of the New Start Treaty is going well is going well and we see no basis for threats to withdraw from it. “We continue to believe that cooperation with Russia on missile defense can enhance the security of the United States, our allies in Europe, and Russia, and we will continue to work with Russia to define the parameters of possible cooperation.”

Mr. Obama ordered a major redesign of the missile-defense plans he had inherited from his predecessor, George W. Bush, opting to move the system closer to Iran and to build it faster. Mr. Bush had favored placing interceptor missiles in Poland and a radar system in the Czech Republic.

In his remarks, Mr. Medvedev said there was still room for negotiation. But he accused the United States and NATO of being unwilling to consider Russia’s point of view. “They are not going, at least as of today, to take into consideration our concerns about the architecture of the European missile defense system,” he said, “They are saying, ‘This is not against you, don’t worry.’ They are trying to calm us down.”

But in what was clearly a reference to the United States Congress, Mr. Medvedev said there were reasons not to trust the assurances from the Obama administration. “Legislators in some countries openly state,” he said, “ This is against you.’ ”
814 2011-11-24 Fox gets some Christmas mileage out of one of its own core franchises with “Ice Age: A Mammoth Christmas” (8 p.m. Thursday), a companion to the 20th Century Fox animated film series. This highly polished, intermittently funny production is the only one of the TV cartoons to feature a big-name voice cast, as actors like Ray Romano, John Leguizamo and Queen Latifah reprise their funny-animal roles from the films.

It’s amusing at the beginning when Manny the Mammoth, speaking in the lugubrious tones of Mr. Romano, rolls his family’s traditional holiday centerpiece — the Christmas rock — into position. There’s also a nice moment when Santa (Billy Gardell) sings “I Am Coming to Town.” Otherwise it’s the usual careening and boomeranging of animals and other large objects through space, in something close to 3-D if your television is sufficiently large and highly defined.

“A Mammoth Christmas” ends up being an origin story, in which the blundering characters accidentally create both the Christmas tree and Santa’s annual sleigh ride. A similar premise gets very different treatment on CBS in “hoops&yoyo Ruin Christmas” (8 p.m. Friday), a frenetic half-hour done in a flat, line-drawing style appropriate for the promotion of the hoops&yoyo line of Hallmark greeting cards.

The title characters, a pink cat and a green rabbit, catch a ride on Santa’s sleigh and after passing through a wormhole — that’s how he gets around so quickly — they’re transported in space and time to the workshop of young Kris Kringle. A few snarky yet sentimental scenes later, they’ve helped him realize his true destiny as Santa Claus.

“Hoops&yoyo” has the look and feel of the bright, loud cartoons that dominate children’s programming on Nickelodeon and Disney Channel, and the same kind of winking humor. When one character says, “A spring here, a gear there, I mean it’s just a toy,” another replies, “You know that’s going to be one of those lines that comes back to bite us.” The creators of hoops&yoyo, Bob Holt and Mike Adair, also do their voices, and it turns out that the kitten and bunny sound a lot like Cartman and Stan from “South Park.”

Much more homespun on CBS is the second new cartoon, “The Elf on the Shelf: An Elf’s Story” (8:30 p.m. Friday), the latest product from the Georgia-based family business built around the children’s book “The Elf on the Shelf.” Animated in a bland 3-D style that recalls Robert Zemeckis’s motion-capture films as well as the “Radio City Christmas Spectacular,” it posits that scout elves are assigned to human children to determine on which of Santa’s lists, naughty or nice, they belong.

“An Elf’s Story” may look better on your television than it did for me online, but it will still be overly tame and sentimental, of more interest to zealously protective parents than to inquisitive children, who are likely to have signed off even before a massed chorus of elves sings and dances a number called “Extravaganzalorious.”

For some honest emotion, and a combination of retro holiday spirit with adventurous animation, tune in for “Jingle All the Way,” a presentation that lists many of the same producers as the “hoops&yoyo” program. The two cartoons couldn’t be more different, however. The work of Bent Image Lab, a studio in Portland, Ore., “Jingle All the Way” looks like something you’d see at a European animation festival or late at night on Adult Swim, but it is also gentle and completely Hallmark-appropriate.

The simple but engaging story about a boy who wants a puppy for Christmas, and the puppy’s tireless efforts to make it happen, navigates a sure path between mawkish and sarcastic; it invokes holiday classics like the Frosty and Rudolph cartoons while feeling completely up to date. On this weekend’s couch-potato menu, it’s the blue-plate special.
815 2011-11-24 The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 1.9 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London fell 1.3 percent. German shares were down 1.4 percent, and in Paris, the CAC 40 fell 1.7 percent.

The dollar gained against other major currencies. The euro fell more than 1 percent to $1.3336 in New York.

The weak demand for the German bond offering suggested that investors did not want to invest in Europe as a whole, Mr. Pride said, rather than signaling fears of a German default.

Elsewhere in the bond market, the United States 10-year government bond rose 10/32 to 101 1/32. The yield on the bond fell to 1.89 percent, from 1.92 percent late Tuesday. The yield on the comparable German bond was up 0.16 percentage points at 2.08 percent.

David Joy, chief market strategist with Ameriprise Financial, said that economic figures had been showing a weak economy in Europe for some time and that he believed that the weak auction demand was a “significant factor,” noting that the German bond yields were now about the same level as those in Britain.

A weakening of manufacturing activity in China and the euro zone also weighed on sentiment, while data in the United States continued to show a slower recovery.

A European index based on a survey of euro zone purchasing managers showed manufacturing output in the 17-nation bloc falling for a fourth consecutive month, dropping at the steepest rate since June 2009, Markit, a data services provider said. A separate index tracking services activity fell for a third consecutive month, Markit said.

Myles Zyblock, the chief institutional strategist and managing director for capital markets research at RBC Capital Markets, said that Europe’s economic woes in general were weighing on American investor sentiment after the soft economic figures that were released on Wednesday.

“It is definitely saying that the risks of European recession are very high,” Mr. Zyblock said.

But he added that the reports from China also were probably affecting the financial markets.

“Multinationals have big exposure globally,” he said.

In the United States, the Commerce Department said new orders for durable goods fell 0.7 percent in October, compared with 0.8 percent in September. Orders for nonmilitary capital goods, a proxy for future business investment, fell 1.8 percent, the department said, after a 2.4 percent increase in September.

“Capital goods order activity in October was disappointing, and the up and down movement reflects the uncertainty that exists in the economy,” said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance.

In addition, initial filings for jobless benefits rose by the end of last week, to 393,000, the Labor Department said, or slightly higher than the 390,000 forecast. Consumer spending also continued to show weakness.
816 2011-11-24 Were the 1970s the most boring decade in history?     In 1972, The New York Times reported on the Ford Motor Company's plan to fight boredom on the job and an alternative boredom-reduction plan put forward by the United Auto Workers. The Washingto...
817 2011-11-24 8:03 p.m. | Updated      Microsoft is officially kicking the tires at Yahoo again, three years after it failed to buy control of the company....
818 2011-11-25 Milton Greek, who has been diagnosed with schizophrenia, believes that decoding the messages in delusions can help some people recover.
819 2011-11-25 Using a scoring system that weights endorsements based on their importance, Mitt Romney has dominated recently, picking up 75 percent of the points....
820 2011-11-25 Using a scoring system that weights endorsements based on their importance, Mitt Romney has dominated recently, picking up 75 percent of the points....
821 2011-11-25 Louis J. Freeh, former director of the F.B.I., has been asked to oversee MF Global's responses to federal investigators and push for speedy payouts to creditors....
822 2011-11-25 Louis J. Freeh, former director of the F.B.I., has been asked to oversee MF Global's responses to federal investigators and push for speedy payouts to creditors....
823 2011-11-25 A Black Friday visit to the Apple Store in Palo Alto, Calif., offered a glimpse of the new technology Apple is using to speed purchases. A store employee demonstrated an internal application that can show the in-store location of a shopper who is ...
824 2011-11-25 A Black Friday visit to the Apple Store in Palo Alto, Calif., offered a glimpse of the new technology Apple is using to speed purchases. A store employee demonstrated an internal application that can show the in-store location of a shopper who is ...
825 2011-11-25 A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen....
826 2011-11-25 A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen....
827 2011-11-25 The day after Thanksgiving, many car owners in the city mistakenly assumed that parking regulations were suspended....
828 2011-11-25 The day after Thanksgiving, many car owners in the city mistakenly assume that parking regulations are suspended....
829 2011-11-25 Spotting the flared shape of La Guardia Airport's 1964 control tower, you knew you were back in New York. The new tower is taller, bigger, far more up-to-date and much more commanding. But something is missing without that crazy old structure....
830 2011-11-25 Spotting the flared shape of La Guardia Airport's 1964 control tower, you knew you were back in New York. The new tower is taller, bigger, far more up-to-date and much more commanding. But something is missing without that crazy old structure....
831 2011-11-25 White Collar Watch examines proposals to tighten up restrictions on securities trading based on information gleaned from Capitol Hill....
832 2011-11-25 White Collar Watch examines proposals to tighten up restrictions on securities trading based on information gleaned from Capitol Hill....
833 2011-11-25 Facebook's Help Center states that some photographs or photo albums may disappear from your account during "periods of site maintenance."...
834 2011-11-25 Facebook's Help Center states that some photographs or photo albums may disappear from your account during "periods of site maintenance."...
835 2011-11-25 While American retailers brace for the post-Thanksgiving shopping rush, cities across Europe are primping for a slightly different kind of holiday tradition: the much-anticipated opening of the region's storied Christmas markets -- and Prague is n...
836 2011-11-25 While American retailers brace for the post-Thanksgiving shopping rush, cities across Europe are primping for a slightly different kind of holiday tradition: the much-anticipated opening of the region's storied Christmas markets -- and Prague is n...
837 2011-11-25 How to set up and use Apple's Find My Mac feature, new to Macs running OS X Lion....
838 2011-11-25 How to set up and use Apple's Find My Mac feature, new to Macs running OS X Lion....
839 2011-11-25 On Thursday, Wal-Mart welcomed the move as “a first, important step,” adding that the company would study “the conditions and the finer details of the new policy and the impact that it will have on our ability to do business in India.”

Analysts said the fact that policy makers opened the retail market despite of opposition from other parties suggested they might be more willing to open up the broader economy further.

In the last seven years, the coalition government led by the Congress Party has delayed many proposals to open domestic industries like insurance and aviation to greater foreign investment and competition.

“One had almost given up hope that the government would make a big move,” said Arvind Singhal, chairman of Technopak Advisors, a consulting firm that specializes in the retailing industry. “There is a big sense of relief.”

Mr. Singhal and other analysts say India needs significant foreign investment to help establish a modern retail industry and a more efficient supply system. Modern stores make up about 5 percent of India’s $500 billion retail industry, with the rest made up of corner stores and other small enterprises.

Analysts have estimated that up to 35 percent of Indian fruits and vegetables spoil before they get to market, largely as a result of an antiquated supply system that includes many wholesale markets and middlemen.

Partly as a result, Indian food prices often rise quickly when there are minor disruptions in the supply or harvest of staple crops like onions and potatoes. Food inflation in recent months has been hovering near 10 percent.

While some companies have begun building supply networks in parts of India, Mr. Singhal said it would take three to five years of investment to establish a more efficient supply chain. Companies will need to work from the ground up, setting up warehouses, buying trucks and establishing relationships with farmers and other suppliers.

“I don’t see any immediate impact in the next six months,” Mr. Singhal said. “Supply chain development takes its own time. It moves from one state to another.”

For the last two years, Wal-Mart, the giant American retailer, has been operating wholesale stores in India that sell only to other businesses; it now has nine such outlets. It has also established relationships with farmers in some states like Punjab to supply vegetables and other produce to the retail supermarkets of its Indian partner Bharti Retail. Metro, a German retail chain, has also opened wholesale stores in India.

The move will also help Indian companies like the Future Group, the country’s largest retailer, and FlipKart.com, a fast-growing online store, that would like to raise money from foreign investors to expand their operations.

In many cases, Indian retailers, especially those that operate online stores, have been setting up separate retail and wholesale companies to get around the restrictions on foreign investment. Their American venture capital partners invest in the wholesale operations, which sell goods and services to the retail firms.

The decision will face stiff opposition from political parties, including partners of the Congress Party like the Trinamool Congress, an important party in the eastern part of the country.

The lead opposition party in Parliament, the Bharatiya Janata Party, said before the decision was announced that foreign retailers would merely displace domestic stores.

“Foreign direct investment with deep pockets entering this segment will have an adverse impact on our domestic retail sector, which is growing,” the party said.
840 2011-11-25 On Thursday, Wal-Mart welcomed the move as “a first, important step,” adding that the company would study “the conditions and the finer details of the new policy and the impact that it will have on our ability to do business in India.”

Analysts said the fact that policy makers opened the retail market despite of opposition from other parties suggested they might be more willing to open up the broader economy further.

In the last seven years, the coalition government led by the Congress Party has delayed many proposals to open domestic industries like insurance and aviation to greater foreign investment and competition.

“One had almost given up hope that the government would make a big move,” said Arvind Singhal, chairman of Technopak Advisors, a consulting firm that specializes in the retailing industry. “There is a big sense of relief.”

Mr. Singhal and other analysts say India needs significant foreign investment to help establish a modern retail industry and a more efficient supply system. Modern stores make up about 5 percent of India’s $500 billion retail industry, with the rest made up of corner stores and other small enterprises.

Analysts have estimated that up to 35 percent of Indian fruits and vegetables spoil before they get to market, largely as a result of an antiquated supply system that includes many wholesale markets and middlemen.

Partly as a result, Indian food prices often rise quickly when there are minor disruptions in the supply or harvest of staple crops like onions and potatoes. Food inflation in recent months has been hovering near 10 percent.

While some companies have begun building supply networks in parts of India, Mr. Singhal said it would take three to five years of investment to establish a more efficient supply chain. Companies will need to work from the ground up, setting up warehouses, buying trucks and establishing relationships with farmers and other suppliers.

“I don’t see any immediate impact in the next six months,” Mr. Singhal said. “Supply chain development takes its own time. It moves from one state to another.”

For the last two years, Wal-Mart, the giant American retailer, has been operating wholesale stores in India that sell only to other businesses; it now has nine such outlets. It has also established relationships with farmers in some states like Punjab to supply vegetables and other produce to the retail supermarkets of its Indian partner Bharti Retail. Metro, a German retail chain, has also opened wholesale stores in India.

The move will also help Indian companies like the Future Group, the country’s largest retailer, and FlipKart.com, a fast-growing online store, that would like to raise money from foreign investors to expand their operations.

In many cases, Indian retailers, especially those that operate online stores, have been setting up separate retail and wholesale companies to get around the restrictions on foreign investment. Their American venture capital partners invest in the wholesale operations, which sell goods and services to the retail firms.

The decision will face stiff opposition from political parties, including partners of the Congress Party like the Trinamool Congress, an important party in the eastern part of the country.

The lead opposition party in Parliament, the Bharatiya Janata Party, said before the decision was announced that foreign retailers would merely displace domestic stores.

“Foreign direct investment with deep pockets entering this segment will have an adverse impact on our domestic retail sector, which is growing,” the party said.
841 2011-11-25 “It’s important to state out of the gate the importance of these interactions, the value they bring to physicians, to health care professionals in general and ultimately to patients,” said Karl Uhlendorf, vice president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.

But the financial relationships raise questions about the influence of drug companies on prescribing patterns or research results. The practice “puts patients and tax dollars at risk,” said Lee Spiller, the policy director for the Texas branch of the Citizens Commission on Human Rights, a nonprofit mental health watchdog. “It taints the whole process. I’d hate to think donations were shaping state mental health policy in particular.”

Dr. Stanley Self, a part-time psychiatrist at Texas’ state-run Rusk psychiatric hospital, earns $166,000 a year from the state. He also earned at least $145,000 from drug companies in 2009-10, largely for speaking engagements. Dr. Self did not return calls seeking comment on his work for drug companies, but his receptionist said he is “not doing much of that anymore.”

Christine Mann, a spokeswoman for the Department of State Health Services, said agency employees, like Dr. Self, are allowed to hold a second job as long as there is not a conflict of interest. The agency “is looking into this issue further and will examine its policies to see if there are provisions that need to be strengthened,” Ms. Mann said.

Dr. Joseph Bailes, an oncologist and the vice chairman of the executive committee at the Cancer Research and Prevention Institute of Texas, earned roughly $250,000 between 2009 and 2010 as a consultant for Pfizer. Dr. Bailes said that he has advised Pfizer on Medicare policy — not on drug development — and that it has no bearing on his role with the institute, a $3 billion endeavor financed by voter-approved bonds, for which he is an “unpaid volunteer” specializing in efforts to bring new cancer therapies to market.

“It doesn’t influence anything I do,” Dr. Bailes said, adding that his committee is not responsible for selecting projects for financing.

Dr. Stanley Lemon, who left his post as the director of the Institute for Human Infections and Immunity at the University of Texas Medical Branch in April and is now at the University of North Carolina, made nearly $80,000 consulting for Pfizer in 2009-10. Dr. Lemon, who is still an adjunct professor at U.T.M.B. but is no longer on the state payroll, said consulting for the pharmaceutical industry has enriched his academic life and made him a more productive scientist.

“As long as they are properly reported and do not engender conflicts of interest or commitment, such interactions between industry and academia help to move drug development forward in a positive way,” Dr. Lemon wrote in an e-mail.

The analysis of Texas pharmaceutical payments comes as the state attorney general’s office prepares for a mammoth trial in January against Janssen Pharmaceuticals and its parent company, Johnson & Johnson. Janssen, which has vigorously denied any wrongdoing, has been accused of offering trips and kickbacks to state health officials to get the schizophrenia drug Risperdal on an approved drug list for medications that are paid for by the state.

Across the country, the reporting of such perceived conflicts has traditionally fallen short. Companies have not been required to disclose payments, and medical institutions have made limited efforts to police their employees.

The ProPublica data covers just a part of drug company payments — it represents about 40 percent of the 2010 pharmaceutical market in the United States — and includes manufacturers that have either begun disclosing their payments voluntarily, or as a result of legal settlements.

Beginning in March, federal law will require drug and device companies to report and disclose all of their payments to medical professionals and researchers; by September, the data is supposed to be displayed in a searchable online government database. Texas universities — whose doctors and researchers account for $2.7 million of the pharmaceutical money statewide from 2009 to early 2011 — are working to update their own conflict policies and monitoring systems.

The University of Texas System will require its faculty members to report every dollar they are paid by a drug or device manufacturer and all financial interests in their research beginning Jan. 1.

The U.T. Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas is working on an electronic conflict-of-interest filing system that will feed into a soon-to-be-released public disclosure Web site, said Tim Doke, U.T.-Southwestern’s vice president for communications.

“We’ve been working feverishly here for the last couple of months,” Mr. Doke said. “Transparency is the absolute key to the public being confident that conflicts that exist are being managed appropriately.”

At the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, university administrators monitor drug company databases to ensure that faculty-conflict filings match, and to set limits on how much doctors and researchers can accept, said Dr. Raymond DuBois, the center’s provost and executive vice president.

But such efforts at transparency vary widely depending on the institution, or may be nonexistent when there is no institution at all. State records show that of the 74 doctors and psychiatrists statewide who have routinely prescribed the highest number of costly antipsychotic drugs to patients on Medicaid, the joint state-federal health insurance program for the disabled, children and the very poor, 10 received payments from drug companies in 2009-11 — from $11,000 to $180,000 each.

All but one got the payments from the maker of the drug they most commonly prescribed.
842 2011-11-25 The Arab League suspended Syria this month after it failed to comply with the plan, under which it had pledged to withdraw all military units from the streets, stop killing protesters and allow the monitors to enter the country.

The league said that if Syria refused to admit the monitors, it would meet again on Saturday to discuss sanctions that could include the suspension of all trade except for essential humanitarian goods, a ban on flights to Syria, a travel ban on Syrian officials, and the freezing of all transactions with the central bank and of all Arab economic projects under way in Syria.

If enacted, the new penalties would deal a stinging blow to an economy already suffering under sanctions from the European Union and the . Syria’s two most vital sectors, oil and tourism, which account for more than a third of the government’s revenues, have all but come to a halt.

By late Friday, after the Arab League deadline had passed, there was still no official response from Syria. But Syrian state television had said earlier that the government would reject the deal as an infringement on its sovereignty.

While the diplomatic wheels turned, violence continued unabated throughout the country, which has appeared in recent weeks to be sliding inexorably into civil war. Activists said that at least 29 people were killed Thursday, 28 of them in Homs in central Syria and its surrounding villages, and one in Talkalakh in northern Syria, according to the Local Coordination Committees, a group of activists who are involved in planning and documenting the uprising.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that at least 11 soldiers were also killed in Houla, a village on the outskirts of Homs, during clashes with army defectors. The group, which is based in , added that security forces killed 15 defectors who were hiding in Rastan, one of the most volatile areas of Homs Province, where large numbers of the deserters are believed to be hiding.

Homs has been the scene of horrific sectarian clashes between the majority Muslims and sizable minorities of Christians and Alawites, the Muslim sect that provides much of the country’s leadership. In recent weeks there have been reports of beheadings, frequent drive-by shootings and revenge killings. The situation there is described by activists as grave, with shortages of food, water and medical supplies.

“We are running out of basic food items and don’t have gas to turn heaters on,” said one resident from Homs who gave his name as Muhammad. “We don’t know how we are going to survive.”

Because of the appalling conditions in Homs and some other rebellious cities, the government is reluctant to admit the monitors, said Samir Nachar, a member of the opposition Syrian National Council.

At the same time, he said, the Syrian government is desperate to avoid having the issue taken up again by the United Nations, which has yet to impose sanctions.

“They are torn between allowing the monitors in and facing a scandal, or not allowing them and facing the United Nations” and the Arab League’s sanctions, Mr. Nachar said.

In his proposal, Mr. Juppé, the French foreign minister, called for sending international monitors to Syria, with or without its approval, but he added that the observers would need an armed escort for their protection. He said he was in contact with the United Nations, the United States and the Arab League over setting up humanitarian corridors, which could be used by groups like the Red Cross to carry aid to the worst-hit areas.

Mr. Juppé called the situation in Syria “no longer tenable” and accused Mr. Assad of “repression of a savagery we have not seen in a long time.”

He told French radio that if the effort to set up the humanitarian corridors was stymied, then “we’d have to look at other solutions with international observers.”

In contrast to their stance on , Arab leaders have opposed any military intervention in Syria.
843 2011-11-25 “We’ve come a long, long way than where we were just 10 years ago,” said Alan Wasser, a theatrical producer whose company also manages the business side of Broadway productions. “Several shows are increasing their grosses a little bit here, a little bit there because they’ve figured out how to price seats better.”

Broadway plays and musicals have brought in a total of $505.9 million so far in the 2011-12 theater season, 4.4 percent more than at this point last season. Yet attendance is down slightly, by 1.6 percent, to a total audience of 5.6 million so far.

It was ticket demand for the 2001 musical that persuaded Broadway executives they could charge the then-staggering sum of $480 for the best seats. Such premium pricing has since caught on, especially for limited-run shows, and has even reached Off Broadway.

The practice has spread to other performing arts as well. began the practice during its spring season at the this year and will continue it at performances this season at City Center and the , where the company is presenting a run of

“Quite a number of ballet companies throughout the country have used dynamic pricing,” along with some orchestras, said James Timm, the director of marketing and brand management for American Ballet Theater. Such pricing is usually applied to one section of the house, Mr. Timm said. The company does not drop prices below a base for undersold shows to avoid undercutting subscribers, he said.

No longer content to have just one premium-ticket price, theater owners and producers are using the variable-pricing model to set multiple prices for premium and regular seats. They then change those prices — or put more seats on sale at higher prices — on a weekly basis.

The 2010 Broadway revival of “Fences” was a pacesetter in the practice, several producers said. The “Fences” producers had such a hot seller in its star, , that they began to test the market to determine what premium price would hold for that 13-week engagement. The production’s average paid admission began to rise sharply, and the show recouped its $2.8 million capitalization in just eight weeks.

Touring companies of stage hits like “Wicked,” “The Lion King” and “Jersey Boys” have experimented with dynamic pricing at their limited-run stops, raising prices for remaining orchestra seats in some cities once many tickets are already sold. Those shows now have enough sales data to build pricing models that can predict weekly Broadway box-office demand, which has led to increases in premium prices or drops in price for the least desirable seats, according to theater executives familiar with pricing at the three shows. They spoke on condition of anonymity because executives with the productions did not authorize discussion of business strategy.

The Jackman show and “The Book of Mormon,” which in June won the for best musical, have the most aggressive pricing strategies because customer demand is so high for them, Broadway theater executives said.

Mr. Jackman is perhaps an ideal candidate. His sweaty T-shirts fetched up to $15,000 from Broadway theatergoers in 2009 during charity auctions after his performances in the play “A Steady Rain,” and front-row seats at his current show have been selling for $1,000 or more from ticket agents who buy up seats early then resell them to the highest bidders.

The producers of Mr. Jackman’s show said they turned to dynamic pricing to help ensure that their investors and creative team — not ticket resellers — would be the ones profiting from high-cost tickets.

“People are prepared to pay a lot more than we’re charging, but nobody in the theater industry would have benefited,” said Robert E. Wankel, president of the Shubert Organization, a producer of Mr. Jackman’s show and the Broadway landlord for his theater. (It is Broadway theater owners who take the lead in setting ticket prices, with input from producers.) “By doing it through dynamic pricing, at least the people who do the work and took the risk are getting some benefits.”

For Mr. Jackman’s show, the strategy has subdivided the audience into haves and haves-less, with the producers charging the most elite levels the highest prices. Among the 700 orchestra floor seats, most tickets sell for $141.50, $156.50, $176.50 and up to $350 for premium seats.

The art of pricing ran into unpredictable demand during some previews of the Jackman show, when the producers ended up selling tickets at the discount TKTS booth in Times Square for five performances as recently as Nov. 9. It wasn’t until rave reviews from critics on Nov. 11 that the show was deemed “clean” — no further discounts would be needed because the pace and volume of ticket sales were on track to virtually sold-out performances.

Like few Broadway shows in recent memory, “The Book of Mormon” has earned the reputation of an impossible-to-get ticket. While the Jackman show ends on Jan. 1, “Mormon” is an open-ended run and has its own supply-and-demand issue to accommodate: The Theater has just 1,066 seats to sell for each performance, compared with the 1,809 “Wicked” has at the Gershwin Theater. The producers of “Mormon” are using dynamic pricing to charge $477 for most available orchestra seats for the rest of 2011. (They declined to comment for this article.)

Want to pay the regular price for a seat to “Mormon” on ? You’ll have to wait until the Jan. 21 performance, the first at which such a seat is for sale. And by the time you read this, that may change, too.
844 2011-11-25 Trinidad and Tobago’s prime minister said Thursday that the police had uncovered a plot to assassinate her and members of her government. The prime minister, Kamla Persad-Bissessar, gave no specifics of the alleged plot but indicated that it was a response by criminal groups to the state of emergency imposed by her government three months ago to dismantle gangs. Police Commissioner Dwayne Gibbs said about a dozen people had been detained.
845 2011-11-25 Its investment in Liquidia piggybacks on capital supplied to the company by traditional investors and is meant to ensure that the technologies the company develops for better delivery of vaccines not only benefit what Mr. Raikes calls “the rich world” but also serve the poor, who are the foundation’s target.

I’m not going to say we couldn’t do this through a nonprofit, but it would certainly be more difficult,” Mr. Raikes said.

Investments like the Gates Foundation’s stake in Liquidia compose but a tiny portion of all program-related investments. About 5 percent, or $37.2 million, of all P.R.I.’s made in 2006 and 2007 was used to buy shares, according to research by the Foundation Center.

The rest of the Gates Foundation’s $1 billion pool, for instance, will go toward more traditional types of program-related investments, like the one it made to guarantee a bond offering by KIPP, a nonprofit manager of charter schools.

But interest is growing rapidly in using P.R.I.’s to buy stakes in businesses that can help foundations achieve their missions, experts say, and the Gates Foundation alone will change the dynamics.

The foundation also put money into two funds that invest in Africa — $7 million in one targeting health-related businesses and $10 million in another aimed at small businesses — and used a $2 million P.R.I. to buy a stake in Inigral. That represents almost the total of all such investments made in the period covered by the Foundation Center report.

Added to about $20 million that the Omidyar Network, the philanthropic investment fund set up by the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, has put into equity funds and other investments, the amount already exceeds that for program-related investments in the Foundation Center’s last report.

“We made our first equity P.R.I. a little more than four years ago, and after that I got maybe one call a month asking how we did it,” said Will Fitzpatrick, general counsel of the Omidyar Network. “For about the last year and a half, though, those calls are coming in at a rate of one or so a week from a combination of large and smaller foundations thinking about making similar investments.”

Diana Aviv, chief executive of the Independent Sector, the nation’s largest nonprofit trade association, said such investments reflected a broader trend.

“Foundations are increasingly agnostic about how they achieve their goals,” Ms. Aviv said. “If their purpose is, say, to eliminate food deserts, they may see supporting a grocery store chain as the best way of doing that rather than funding a nonprofit program.”

That trend concerns her at a time when government financing for nonprofits is declining and the charitable deduction is under fire. “It’s part of this slow erosion of nonprofit funding streams that threatens to undermine organizations that have been built over decades to meet high standards of public trust,” Ms. Aviv said.

For example, Gerard Cafesjian, who made more than a billion dollars through the sale of a publishing empire, formed a family foundation that has invested and made loans to a variety of companies in Armenia, from a financial services business to extensive media holdings and real estate. Its Web site says it has a total of $128 million invested in that country.

The foundation’s 2009 tax form, the latest available, showed that it used P.R.I.’s to make some $53 million in investments that year, about $42 million of which were equity investments. In contrast, it made just $178,000 in grants.

GLC Enterprises, which manages the foundation, did not respond to a list of questions about its investments.

In most cases, program-related investments pale in comparison to grants. Some foundations, like the David & Lucile Packard Foundation, do not even count them toward the payout requirement.

It first used a program-related investment in 2009, when it put $1 million into Ecotrust Forest Management, a fund set up by Ecotrust, an Oregon-based nonprofit conservation organization.

The fund, whose limited partners include Packard and a handful of family offices and individual investors, acquires forest land in the western United States and Canada and earns revenue using ecologically sound management of those properties.

Mary Anne Rodgers, Packard’s general counsel, said the foundation was working on a second deal and planned to cautiously increase its investments in businesses.

“The principal purpose of these types of investments isn’t the appreciation of capital, though we hope to get a return,” Ms. Rodgers said. “Our main reason for investing in Ecotrust Forest in this way is to demonstrate that sustainable forest practices can generate a profit so that mainstream investors will become more interested in it.”

The Omidyar Network used that strategy to demonstrate the commercial viability of microfinance. It used a program-related investment to become a limited partner in the Unitus Equity Fund, a private equity business affiliated with the nonprofit Unitus. After Omidyar made its investment, the fund attracted a group of limited partners that reads like a who’s who of the venture capital world.

“They were having a hard time raising commercial capital until we did that,” Mr. Fitzpatrick said.

Revolution Foods also needed nonprofit financing to attract commercial capital. Its first financing in 2005 came from what is now known as DBL Investors, a private equity firm, the first fund of which included program-related investments from several foundations.

Revolution Foods has grown to 750 employees making nutritious meals served in more than 600 schools in 20 cities across the country.

“That capital got us off the ground,” said Kristin Groos Richmond, one of its founders. “It helped us hire our first employees and buy our first truck and kitchen equipment.”

Not all program-related equity investments turn into gold, however. From 1999 to 2002, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation used P.R.I.’s to make six investments totaling $6 million to help small businesses in places like Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta.

“To be honest, we’ve seen a mixed set of financial results,” said Debra Schwartz, director of MacArthur’s program-related investments. “So far, a couple have been total wipeouts, there are a couple where we’ll at least get our principal back and maybe two of them will produce a positive return — though I’m not expecting anything gigantic.”

Still, she said, “what we were trying to do was help create jobs, and from a rough accounting, more than 11,000 jobs have been created and maintained. That’s impact.”
846 2011-11-25 When banks make loans, regulators demand that they set aside a certain amount of capital. Because different classes of loans carry differing risks, they are risk-weighted before calculating capital ratios.

That is far from straightforward. Most small and midsize lenders use the so-called standardized methodology developed by the Basel Committee and policed by national regulators. It is a fairly crude way of weighting different asset types. All residential mortgages, for example, carry a 35 percent risk-weighting regardless of quality.

Big banks tend to use a more sophisticated option called the internal ratings-based approach. In this case, risk weightings are based on banks’ own analysis of the past performance of their loan portfolios.

For each set of loans, banks estimate a probability of default and how much of the loan will be written off if it goes bad — the loss-given default.

These are used to calculate risk-weighted assets. There are two varieties: advanced, where the bank supplies both its default probability and loss-given default; and foundation, where the loss-given default is derived from a set regulatory scale.

Switching from the standardized method to the internal-ratings-based approach is not easy: it requires assembling a large risk team and securing the regulator’s blessing. But the move can pay off.

If a bank can show that its mortgage loans have a lower than average probability of default, switching to internal ratings could shrink its risk-weighted assets and increase its capital ratio. That might allow the Italian lender Banco Popolare to increase its core Tier 1 ratio by as much as a full percentage point.

Banks can also surf between the foundation and advanced internal-ratings calculations. After it took over HBOS in 2009, the Lloyds Banking Group found that its new acquisition used advanced internal ratings, while Lloyds used the foundation approach. Applying Lloyds’ methodology to the HBOS balance sheet reduced the new group’s risk-weighted assets by £34 billion ($53 billion today), according to Barclays Capital, adding half a percentage point to the enlarged bank’s capital ratio.

Regulators generally will not allow banks to chop and change. But they are also acutely aware that if banks cannot find new capital, it will have to come from the state. That might make a spot of gerrymandering seem preferable.

European regulators have already given banks a big leg-up when it comes to sovereign debt. Under the standardized approach, government bonds carry a zero risk-weighting. In theory, banks that switch to the internal ratings method should apply a more stringent analysis to their sovereign portfolios.

But the European Union’s interpretation allows banks to have their cake and eat it. Using a method called “I.R.B. permanent partial use,” European Union banks are able to keep a zero risk-weighting for member states’ debt, while applying their own risk calculations to everything else.

Basel says this is “not in line with the spirit” of its rules.

Even if these tactics are legitimate, banks may be shooting themselves in the foot. The whole point of increasing capital ratios is to restore market confidence in European banks. If investors think the system is being gamed, they will remain wary.
847 2011-11-25 The institute said its main business climate index for Germany improved in November to 106.6 from 106.4 in October, the first gain in four months, and a sign that the German economy “is still performing relatively well despite the international turmoil.”

With markets in New York closed for Thanksgiving, trading volume was subdued, particularly in contrast with a day earlier. On Wednesday, global equity markets and bonds were upended by the failure of the German government to sell a large part of the debt it was offering at auction, igniting fears that investors might have lost faith in all euro zone sovereign assets.

At the close of trading, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 0.31 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London fell 0.24 percent.

German 10-year bonds, which became the focus of attention on Wednesday, continued to fall in price. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 5 basis points to 2.19 percent. Portuguese 10-year bonds fell more heavily, trading to yield 11.42 percent, up 84 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.

The euro fell to $1.3336 from $1.3341 late Wednesday in New York, while the British pound fell to $1.5501 from $1.5555. The dollar fell to 0.9192 Swiss francs from 0.9201 francs, and to 77.11 Japanese yen from 77.31 yen.

Neil Mellor, a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon in London, said there was a feeling in the market “that we’re getting to a tipping point, that we’re definitely close to something,” but he expressed optimism that the Continent would weather the storm.

He said the euro’s level against the dollar, above last year’s low and well above its historical average of around $1.15, suggested that the market was “inclined to give the euro a break.”

“Against the backdrop of a permanent crisis in the euro zone, you have to ask why the euro remains at these levels,” Mr. Mellor said. “That speaks volumes about the market’s view of the euro.”

United States crude oil futures rose 0.8 percent to $96.99 a barrel. Comex gold futures were little changed at $1,696 an ounce.

Asian shares were mixed. The Tokyo benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average, which had been closed Wednesday for a holiday, fell 1.8 percent, catching up with the global sell-off. The Sydney market index S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.2 percent. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index gained 0.4 percent and in Shanghai the composite index added 0.1 percent.
848 2011-11-25 Some of the past season’s outstanding exhibitions produced such books, with the looking-to-reading ratio varying somewhat from one to the next. ALEXANDER McQUEEN: SAVAGE BEAUTY (Metropolitan Museum of Art/distributed by Yale University Press, $45), the catalog for that fashion designer’s phenomenal Metropolitan Museum retrospective, is, even with good essays by Andrew Bolton and Susannah Frankel, primarily a visual experience.

From its unnerving cover picture, which has Mr. McQueen’s face dissolving into a skull, through its astonishing photographs of his extremist couture, it captures at least some of the hard-to-shake atmosphere of a show that is bound to have lasting reverberations among young designers on the rise.

The catalog for the Museum of Modern Art’s current DE KOONING: A RETROSPECTIVE (Museum of Modern Art, $75) is, in scope and scholarship, on a different, more exalted plane, but still makes a highly companionable gift. The book’s primary writer, John Elderfield, wears his depth of knowledge lightly, turning the artist’s long career into an aesthetic adventure story (which, at the end, becomes a whodunit). And of course there’s de Kooning’s art. Even squeezed down in reproductions, his paintings slash and shimmy on the page.

A third catalog comes from a show far, far less trumpeted than the McQueen and de Kooning surveys, but no less exciting, CENTRAL NIGERIA UNMASKED: ARTS OF THE BENUE RIVER VALLEY. Originally organized by the Fowler Museum at the University of California, Los Angeles, and now at the National Museum of African Art in Washington (through March 4), it includes nearly 150 ritual masks, ceramics and iron pieces of staggering inventiveness, of which no one has taken anything like the full measure until now.

The hard-won result of decades of work by 17 scholars, the book (Fowler Museum at UCLA, $100) is not geared to casual reading or a flip-through scan. It’s a dense, 600-page stimulant to be enjoyed when you’re awake and concentrating and hungry for information about some of the strangest and most beautiful images you’ll ever see.

While in an African frame of mind, you might also consider a more straightforwardly eye-directed book, David Adjaye’s AFRICAN METROPOLITAN ARCHITECTURE (Rizzoli, $100). Mr. Adjaye, an architect and designer born in Tanzania and living in London, has traveled the African continent and photographed what’s going on, and up, in terms of building, in cities from Abidjan, Ivory Coast, to Tripoli, Libya, and is clearly enthralled by what he’s found. His engagement, embracing and critical, comes through in the pictures. Stunning.

Unlike the other books noted, Mr. Adjaye’s isn’t attached to an exhibition. Neither is Christopher Reed’s ART AND HOMOSEXUALITY: A HISTORY OF IDEAS (Oxford University Press, $39.95), though it does coincide with one, “Hide/Seek: Difference and Desire in American Portraiture,” which opened on Friday at the Brooklyn Museum after an embattled debut at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington. Conservative viewers attacked the show for being religiously offensive; some of the rest of us found it too mild-mannered and cautious, even bland.

Mr. Reed’s well-written academic survey puts some of the fire back into the account of queer art’s history. It covers the same 19th- and 20th-century terrain as “Hide/Seek,” but also goes far back in time and culturally much further afield, concluding with an even-handed but politically passionate account of art in the age of AIDS and beyond. See the show in Brooklyn; read this book.

For more and different political art, I also recommend DESTROY ALL MONSTERS MAGAZINE: 1976-1979 (Primary Information/distributed by Artbook DAP, $30) a compilation of art and articles from a funky, proto-punk zine that came and went in six issues and three short years. It was cooked up by a Detroit collective of artist-rockers called Destroy All Monsters, which initially included Cary Loren, Mike Kelley, Niagara and Jim Shaw.

Mr. Kelley and Mr. Shaw went on to achieve art establishment fame, but the book that they and their old colleagues have assembled from youthful material feels just right for the Occupy Wall Street moment, or almost right. The Destroy All Monsters spirit was dystopian, not utopian. Making change was on the agenda; making nice was not.

Finally, also independent from exhibitions but intimately bound to art, are three new books of poems by artists. The wildest of the collections by far is BODY SWEATS: THE UNCENSORED WRITINGS OF ELSA BARONESS VON FREYTAG LORINGHOVEN (MIT Press, $34.95), edited by Irene Gammel and Suzanne Zelazo. The baroness (1874-1927) was one of the outstanding lifestyle radicals of the early Dada era, or of any era, really; I’m not sure even a hard-core punk collective would have known quite what to make of her. In addition to being an artist and a personage, she was a furiously witty and aggressively erotic experimental writer, as this first published collection of her poetry demonstrates.

The prettiest-looking of the three books is CRYSTAL FLOWERS: POEMS AND A LIBRETTO (Bookthug, $18), by Florine Stettheimer, also edited, though for a different press, by Ms. Gammel and Ms. Zelazo. Stettheimer (1871-1944) was, like the baroness, a notable art world eccentric, though of a different kind: elusive, deeply private and withholding of her work. Her paintings of fantastically imagined avant-garde soirees have become American modernist staples since her death. Her poetry has been little seen and, published in this neat little book, with Stettheimer floating across the cover, it’s a delight: whimsical but with surprisingly frequent and well-placed bites.

COMING TO THAT: POEMS BY DOROTHEA TANNING (Graywolf Press, $15) is a second poetry collection by a painter and sculptor who celebrated her 100th birthday last year. Ms. Tanning was married to the artist Max Ernst and is often taken for a Surrealist, though she went her own way with art that’s dreamlike but also firmly reality-based, socio-politically attuned and bittersweet.

The same is true of her new poetry, which considers the liabilities of age and gender, and the fallibilities of art, with a cool eye, wryly and dryly, as in her poem “Artspeak”:

If Art would only talk it would, at last, reveal

itself for what it is, what we all burn to know.

As for our certainties, it would fetch a dry yawn

then take a minute to sweep them under the rug:

under the rug. High time, my dears, to listen up.

Finally Art would talk, fill the sky like a mouth,

clear its convulsive throat while flashes and crashes

erupted as it spoke — a star-shot avalanche of

visions in uproar, drowned by the breathy din

of soundbites as we strain to hear its august words:

Sometimes art books get really, really big, especially around the holidays. Dimensions, weight and page count rise precipitously, and all of a sudden you’ve got coffee table books that threaten your coffee table. In these volumes historical sweep is usually the point, along with the contest to see how much visual information can be compressed between covers. Quantity competes with quality; reproductions often overwhelm text. Why else have big pages if not for big pictures?

Among this season’s gargantuas, three stand out. EXPRESSIONS OF INNOCENCE AND ELOQUENCE: SELECTIONS FROM THE JANE KATCHER COLLECTION OF AMERICANA, VOLUME II (Marquand Books/Yale University Press, $95) keeps words and pictures in balance, offering further excursions into an outstanding private collection of American folk art, and following a first volume published in 2006. This one, also overseen by Jane Katcher, the collector, and David A. Schorsch and Ruth Wolfe, two antique and folk art specialists, coincides with an exhibition at the Fenimore Art Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y. (through Dec. 31).

The book has contributions from 19 additional scholars, covering a familiar array of objects, including New England limners’ portraits, quilts, weathervanes and embroidery and painted furniture. But the essays proceed in close-up, singling out individual objects and the people who made or used them, often with fresh and revelatory specificity.

Also hefty is THE RONALD S. LAUDER COLLECTION: SELECTIONS FROM THE 3RD CENTURY B.C. TO THE 20TH CENTURY, GERMANY, AUSTRIA, AND FRANCE (Prestel, $75), which reveals the riches of another, somewhat more eclectic private collection. It belongs to Mr. Lauder, the New York cosmetics mogul and founder of the Neue Galerie, which is exhibiting through April 2 about a third of the 1,200 objects reproduced in the book. After two girdle clasps from the third century B.C., these objects extend from early medieval art through a princely assortment of arms and armor and old master paintings to 19th- and 20-century modernist and postmodernist works of the German, Austrian and French persuasion.

High points include numerous paintings by Cézanne, a cache of extraordinary Picasso drawings and works by Sigmar Polke and Joseph Beuys, as well as the early-20th-century Viennese art and design for which Mr. Lauder and his museum are best known.

This book should be studied carefully by anyone who has ever raised a paddle at auction. Although Mr. Lauder has had the advantage of very deep pockets, his acquisitions still epitomize the basic principles of collecting: that, regardless of budget, it is best conducted with a rigorous eye and personal flair, as a form of self-expression.

The monster of all Christmas art books, this year and maybe for a while, is Phaidon’s ART MUSEUM, an 18-pound monolith roughly the size of a tombstone that gives new meaning to André Malraux’s “museum without walls.” It is described as “the world’s first truly accessible art museum,” but it is more like a large portion of Wikipedia made tangible (with a $200 price tag).

Illustrated with works from the world’s greatest museums and cultural sites, laid out in 454 relatively text-free “rooms” that sometimes run to four pages, it starts in the Lascaux caves in southwestern France and concludes in the vicinity of Damien Hirst’s self-generated 2007 auction.

In between, it bounds from continent to continent and culture to culture with images that often make full use of its 25-inch wingspan, including Chinese landscape paintings, Japanese screens, the Sistine ceiling, “Starry Night” and Diego Rivera’s Sistine-inspired “Liberated Earth With Natural Forces,” a mural-covered chapel at the Autonomous University of Chapingo in Mexico.

Like any museum, this one isn’t perfect. In many instances the color could be better. The slant toward British art in the final section is a bit annoying, and it is possible to take issue throughout with various choices. In the realm of abstract painting, for example, there are several works by Brice Marden and Tomma Abts, but no early Black Painting by Frank Stella.

Regardless, this tome is chock-full of things you don’t often see reproduced on this scale, and other things you may not even know about and will love on sight. And if, on top of all this, the book is also something of an instant period piece — too 2011 for words — what more could you ask?

Then there’s the shelf of largely excellent catalogs generated by PACIFIC STANDARD TIME: LOS ANGELES ART 1945-1980, the fertile crescent of exhibitions spread throughout scores of museums and alternative spaces in and around Los Angeles. If these exhibitions can be seen as weaving themselves into a single, unprecedented, multi-museum show — and I think they can — their catalogs constitute a multi-volume publication.

As such, it is one that teems with original research, insightful essays, illuminating chronologies, documentary photographs and unfamiliar artworks. Like the shows themselves, these catalogs tell new stories, or familiar ones with new depth and detail. Anyone interested in the history of postwar American art but unable to make it to Los Angeles has much to gain from spending time with them.

I would recommend that museums, libraries or even art galleries across the country consider setting up temporary “Pacific Standard Time” reading rooms. Anything that increases access to this astounding event helps art.

“For 14 years Picasso pursued, embellished, transformed, deconstructed and annexed Marie-Thérèse, as a wild beast its prey.” So writes Diana Widmaier Picasso, the granddaughter of the artist and his mistress and muse Marie-Thérèse Walter, in the catalog to the Gagosian Gallery’s summer blockbuster, “Picasso and Marie-Thérèse: L’Amour Fou” (Rizzoli, $100). Young, voluptuous, discreet and endlessly patient, Walter was Picasso’s most sensual and compliant subject; even her dreams were seemingly accessible to him, in fervid portraits like “Le Rêve.” And as essays by Ms. Widmaier Picasso and the show’s curator, John Richardson, make clear, Walter remains as remote to us as she was available to Picasso.

Tucked in among this volume’s many paintings and photographs of Walter, however, is a small flip-book, a reproduction of one in the family archives. Thumbing its pages, you can see a self-conscious smile creeping across those famously statuesque features.

Joan Mitchell’s ebullient “Ladybug” seemed to crawl up the sleeve of many a visitor to the Museum of Modern Art’s recent “Abstract Expressionist New York.” And now, in a season of de Kooning, a lively biography of Mitchell is poised to do the same. Patricia Albers’s JOAN MITCHELL, LADY PAINTER: A LIFE (Alfred A. Knopf, $40) meets this “tough, vulnerable, loving, bawdy, bullying, embattled, generous and enraged” artist head-on, capturing her tomboy persona without turning her into a caricature.

Born to a wealthy and literary Chicago family, Mitchell enjoyed many advantages. But she also had something to prove, to her father (who wished openly that she had been a boy) and to the macho 10th Street scene. She approached painting with the discipline of a competitive figure skater and the abandon of a raging alcoholic. (She was both.) And she was fearless in seeking out role models, whether knocking on de Kooning’s door during her first years in New York or, late in life, chasing the ghost of van Gogh.

You might see Rosamond Bernier’s SOME OF MY LIVES: A SCRAPBOOK MEMOIR (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30) as a fantasy cocktail party of cultural luminaries, à la Woody Allen’s “Midnight in Paris.” (Except Ms. Bernier actually did get a makeover from Frida Kahlo, go flamenco dancing with Leonard Bernstein and tour Barcelona with Miró.)

As a former Vogue correspondent, founder of the art magazine L’OEIL and renowned lecturer (and the widow of John Russell, the longtime art critic for The New York Times), Ms. Bernier has had the kind of access to artists that most of us can only imagine. And though her book is indeed a loosely bound scrapbook — of appointments, assignments and chance encounters — its tone is pithy and conspiratorial.

As her dear friend “Lenny” Bernstein once wrote, “Madame Bernier has the gift of instant communication to a degree I have rarely encountered, and in a field where it is not easy to be communicative without being glib.”

Michael Fried and Rosalind E. Krauss have towered like giants over the mindscape of art criticism and theory for almost five decades. Mr. Fried’s landmark 1967 essay, “Art and Objecthood,” gloomily predicted an art world that would abandon aesthetic values in favor of theatrical effect. Ms. Krauss, a co-founder of the über-cerebral journal October, has imported all kinds of abstruse theories from Europe, including Structuralism, Deconstructionism and Jacques Lacan’s spin on Freudian psychoanalysis, and thereby changed how we talk about art.

In new books each updates favorite ideas, promotes a select few artists, mixes in autobiography and expresses contempt for most of what passes for art these days. Both are keen to convince readers that contrary to the anything-goes spirit of postmodern pluralism, serious, relevant and enduring art has certain essential qualities that artists ignore at their own peril. The major bugaboo for both is installation art. They share a big father figure too — the arch-formalist critic Clement Greenberg — toward whom they direct filial devotion and Oedipal scorn.

Mr. Fried’s signature thought is that the value of an artwork lies in the internal relationships among its constituent parts, as in, for example, the abstract, welded-steel assemblages of Anthony Caro. During the 1970s and ’80s, Mr. Fried despaired of finding that quality of dynamic interiority — what he called absorption — in new art, and turned his attention to historical subjects.

In recent years, however, he has found that certain artists have risen to his standard, and those he singles out in FOUR HONEST OUTLAWS (Yale University Press, $45) may surprise many readers. They include the mercurial sculptor Charles Ray; the video makers Anri Sala and Douglas Gordon; and Joseph Marioni, who makes glossy, single-color paintings. Mr. Fried’s accounts of works by these artists are excellent, sometimes inspiring models for close looking and finely grained analysis.

Ms. Krauss’s title, UNDER BLUE CUP (MIT Press, $24.95), refers to one of the flash cards used to help rehabilitate her memory after she suffered a stroke in 1999. Near the beginning of her recovery, she learned that if she could remember who she was, everything else would follow.

In her book she transfers the idea that there is something essential about who she is to a definition of art, which, it may appear, has forgotten what it is. Art that matters to Ms. Krauss must involve a “technical support” and a system of rules. She sees the game of chess as analogous, and she thinks the most interesting artists are like knights, whose moves are the most eccentric of all the chess pieces. Those she regards as “knights of the medium” include the California Pop artist Ed Ruscha; the South African animated filmmaker William Kentridge; and Christian Marclay, the video artist best known for “The Clock.” Agreeing or disagreeing, the reader will get a vigorous intellectual workout from Mr. Fried and Ms. Krauss.

Errol Morris brings his great talent as a documentary filmmaker to a philosophically gripping investigation of several controversial episodes in the history of photography. In BELIEVING IS SEEING (OBSERVATIONS ON THE MYSTERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY) (Penguin Press, $40), he explores the real-world backgrounds of notorious photographs from Abu Ghraib; pictures made by Walker Evans and others documenting social conditions of the Great Depression; and a pair of photographs of a Crimean War battlefield by Roger Fenton in which cannonballs on the road in one and not on the road in the other raise questions about the photographer’s alteration of the scene. It is not new to doubt the relationship among photography, reality and truth, but Mr. Morris brings the issues to life with terrific storytelling verve.
849 2011-11-25 If your theater-loving friend is of the musical-averse persuasion, THE JOURNALS OF SPALDING GRAY, edited by Nell Casey (Alfred A. Knopf, $28.95), is a fine choice. But I am tempted to suggest that you tear out the last 50 pages or so. The narrative of Gray’s physical and mental decline, after a car accident in Ireland left him with serious injuries, is probably not something to be read while eggnog is still being poured, particularly as supplemented by the spotty, anguished journal entries Gray wrote in the months before his suicide.

And yet the book is necessary reading for all admirers of Gray’s art: the series of autobiographical monologues beginning in the 1970s, in which he more or less created a new, emotionally bare theatrical form. He made a career of airing his anxieties, fears and obsessions in front of audiences, exorcising his demons nightly (or at least trying to) by sharing them with the watching world. You might wonder what more even interested parties might want to know about a life so restlessly and relentlessly examined.

But the journals are great reading. They are far more raw in their details of his sexual and emotional travails, and all the more affecting for being so. Ms. Casey does an excellent job of providing context, describing the arc of Gray’s life as he moved from struggling young actor to established artist, and from chronically dissatisfied narcissist (“The worst fear is that I’ll learn to be happy at last and then get real sad when I see what I’ve missed.”) to deeply loving and happy father.

When he admits at one point that even in his journals he is writing for an audience, the honesty is refreshing. On almost every page there is a bitingly funny insight into one of his many flaming neuroses. My favorite: “I will make up regrets just to have them.”

Although the careers of Gray and Wendy Wasserstein peaked at approximately the same time, Wasserstein was an artist of an entirely different order from Gray. She too drew on her upbringing, her family conflicts and her life experience in her plays, but she transformed the material into more traditional works of theater, popular comedies beginning with “Uncommon Women and Others” and culminating in her Pulitzer Prize-winning “The Heidi Chronicles.”

Julie Salamon’s immensely enjoyable biography of Wasserstein, WENDY AND THE LOST BOYS (the Penguin Press, $29.95), naturally ends on a somber note. Both Wasserstein and Gray died tragically early, leaving behind young children. But the story of Wasserstein’s struggle to find her voice as a writer — she was the underachiever at the Yale School of Drama, alongside the likes of Christopher Durang and Meryl Streep — makes for engrossing, ultimately heartening reading.

With her success, Wasserstein became a sort of den mother to the New York theater world, forging deep if complicated friendships with many of the era’s leading lights. So Ms. Salamon’s book is both the chronicle of a richly lived life and a portrait of a place and time, New York in the 1970s and ’80s, when Off Broadway was still a place of lively artistic ferment. (“During Wendy’s lifetime,” Ms. Salamon writes, “Broadway had become an anachronism for American playwrights.”)

There are plenty of unexpected illuminations, too, about how Wasserstein managed to keep parts of her life intensely private, even as she became the cynosure of various overlapping social circles. Ms. Salamon, a former reporter for The New York Times, observes that some of Wasserstein’s closest friends were kept in the dark about her late-in-life pregnancy and the series of grave illnesses that clouded her final days. Still, the shock and sorrow that attended her death are testament to how important she was to family, friends and the theater world until the very end.
850 2011-11-25 Hark back to the early days of the Marvel Universe in MARVEL FIRSTS: THE 1960S ($29.99), by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby and a host of other writers and artists, which reprints the first adventures of many now big-screen heroes. There are hits and misses, but as a historical tome it’s invaluable: read the first adventure of the X-Men, note that the Incredible Hulk was originally gray and see how Spider-Man, who has headlined films, cartoons and Broadway, was so efficiently introduced in 11 pages. The extras — a cool collection of covers from the 1960s and Stan Lee’s notes on Fantastic Four No. 1 — are alone worth the price of admission.

How far should protesters go to make their case? Is the news media biased because of corporate ownership? What is the dividing line between civil liberties and keeping the country safe? There are no easy answers in AMERICAN TERRORIST (A Wave Blue World, $15.95), nor should there be. The story, by Tyler and Wendy Chin-Tanner, illustrated by Andy MacDonald, has an unexpected ending that I hope the creative team leaves as is, rather than revisiting in a sequel.

Nothing conveys the holiday spirit more than making lists of things that displease you. WHAT I HATE: FROM A TO Z (Bloomsbury, $15) is a wonderful stocking stuffer for neurotics. It has 26 illustrations by Roz Chast, a cartoonist for The New Yorker, which chronicles her various “concerns,” to put it nicely. I was sucked in by the entry for balloons, which to Ms. Chast are imminent explosions, not festive party decorations.

BATMAN: NOEL (DC Comics, $22.99), written and illustrated by Lee Bermejo, is a riff on Dickens’s “Christmas Carol.” There have been other superhero takes on this classic tale, but this version is one of the most beautifully rendered. The drawings look painterly and are filled with hyperrealistic details — you can count the stitches on Batman’s costume. The three ghosts who visit the Caped Crusader are Robin, Catwoman and Superman, and they all look amazing. This book is a visual treat.

The problem with anthologies is that the stories within beg for comparison. And the POST-IT NOTE DIARIES (Plume, $15), edited and illustrated by Arthur Jones, is no exception. The vignettes about life in New York (John Hodgman rides the subway; Marie Lorenz kayaks around the city; and Kristen Schaal works at F. A. O. Schwarz) were immediate favorites. Some of the others, like an encounter with Nicolas Cage by Mary Roach, and Laura Krafft’s tale of her love of following strangers, are also winners. The story about telescopes by Neil de Grasse Tyson, though, was not my cup of tea. But the best approach to this book is not to sit and read it all at once. Read a story per day and savor it.

DROPS OF GOD (Vertical, $14.95), by Tadashi Agi and Shu Okimoto, centers on Shizuku, the son of a famous wine critic, who must identify 12 wines to claim his inheritance. It presents wines rapturously and in creative ways. A 2001 Château Mont-Pérat stirs images of the rock band Queen with its “melting sweetness and a sharp rush of sourness,” Shizuku says. “Just as the soft, husky vocals of Queen are wrapped in deep guitar sounds and heavy drums. It seems somehow like classical, but it isn’t.”

I’m a vodka man, but “Drops of God” left me with a new appreciation for the grape, new vocabulary words like “terroir” (the flavors and aromas that soil and geography impart to a wine) and a fascination with decanting, which the book depicts as an art form.
851 2011-11-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
852 2011-11-26 Providing live analysis of rivalry week, including Notre Dame-Stanford, South Carolina-Clemson and more, with live updates from watch parties around New York City....
853 2011-11-26 Providing live analysis of this weekend's rivalry games, such as Ohio State-Michigan, Georgia-Georgia Tech and Alabama-Auburn....
854 2011-11-26 A prominent human rights activist in Belarus was sentenced to four and a half years in prison after a trial for tax evasion that Western governments denounced as politically motivated. As head of the well-known rights group Vyasna, the activist, Ales Belyatsky, has provided legal assistance and moral support to opponents of Belarus’s authoritarian president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko. The authorities in Belarus opened a criminal case against Mr. Belyatsky after officials in Poland and Lithuania mistakenly handed over information about his financial accounts in those countries. Officials from both countries later apologized.
855 2011-11-26 Financial woes at the United States Postal Service, a vote on a free trade pact in South Korea, a tempest in the fair trade movement and the (barely) post-Thanksgiving start to the holiday season were among the week’s top business stories....
856 2011-11-26 President Yahya Jammeh of Gambia secured a new five-year term on Friday after the election commission declared him the winner in a vote that regional leaders said was marked by the intimidation of voters and the opposition. Mr. Jammeh, the former leader of a coup in 1994, took 72 percent of the vote, according to the Independent Electoral Commission chairman. His victory was seen by many analysts as a foregone conclusion in the West African nation, which is regularly accused by rights groups of repression.
857 2011-11-26 But the strategy “is a high-risk one, because the ones who benefit most from it are the people who don’t necessarily have our best interests in mind — the Islamists — who might not be as wedded to the peace treaty as the military,” Mr. Indyk said. “We are essentially coming down on the side of democracy.”

The strategy risks straining Washington’s deep ties with Egypt’s military, as well as a potential backlash in Egypt if the United States, which is not popular from a long history of supporting the former president, Hosni Mubarak, is seen to be meddling. But administration officials were apparently judging that the bigger risk may be to the Egyptian public, which will need to be won over if Egypt becomes fully democratic, as the administration says it hopes.

The Obama administration appears now to be openly hedging its bets, trying to position the United States in such a way that regardless of who comes out on top — the army or the protesters — it will still maintain some credibility, and ability, to influence the government and ensure a level of stability in Egypt, and to continue to uphold the Egyptian-Israeli peace deal, which the United States views as central to stability in the region as a whole.

Obama administration officials said Friday that the United States would continue to work closely with the Egyptian military, which still receives more than $1.3 billion a year in American aid. But American diplomats said that there had been increasing concern over how the military had handled the latest demonstrations, and in particular over the tactics of the security forces in confrontations with protesters this week that killed at least 41 civilians and injured more than 1,000.

Senior officials at the White House, the State Department and the Pentagon have been on the phone with their Egyptian counterparts urging restraint; Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta called the army field marshal, Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, late Wednesday night to express “just how fundamental the United States believes the matter of responding to the legitimate aspirations of the Egyptian people” is, one senior official said on Friday, speaking on grounds of anonymity. Anne W. Patterson, the American ambassador to Egypt, has also been in talks with Egyptian officials.

Administration officials have also been talking to Lt. Gen. Sami Hafez Enan, the second in command and American military favorite, who is viewed as a potential successor to Field Marshal Tantawi and perhaps more amenable to making a swift change to democracy.

The announcement late Thursday over state media that the army generals planned to name a 78-year-old former Mubarak lieutenant, Kamal el-Ganzoury — a bureaucrat who is viewed as serving the military council — as the new prime minister spurred a flurry of e-mails and telephone calls on Thanksgiving Day among officials at the White House, the State Department and the Pentagon.

“The United States strongly believes that the new Egyptian government must be empowered with real authority immediately,” the White House statement said. “Most importantly,” it added, “we believe that the full transfer of power to a civilian government must take place in a just and inclusive manner that responds to the legitimate aspirations of the Egyptian people, as soon as possible.”

The statement was intended to put a marker in the sand, one administration official said.

“At this moment of increased tension on the ground, it’s important that we get as specific as possible so that everybody understands what’s been agreed to and what constitutes the next steps,” said a second senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity on Friday. “We’re focused on a full transition to a new civilian government on the timeline that’s been announced. Let’s make sure we’re keeping our eyes on that target.”

The official added that “while this isn’t a value judgment” about the appointment of Mr. Ganzoury, “we want to make sure the new prime minister is consistent with our goals for the transition of power.” Specifically, the administration wants a civilian to have authority over the Ministry of the Interior and policing in general, and issues like the planning of elections.

Foreign policy experts said the statement, which came from the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, was a significant, if risky, escalation of the international pressure on the generals, particularly given that the military is the most powerful institution in Egypt and a crucial supporter of the United States in a country where anti-American sentiment and Islamist political movements are surging.

For more than 30 years, the United States has viewed the Egyptian military as the safeguard of the Camp David peace accord that was signed by Menachim Begin and Anwar Sadat in 1979. When President Obama broke with Mr. Mubarak this year, administration officials at the same time sought assurances that the Egyptian military would guide the transition to democracy and continue to uphold the treaty.

Since then, Egyptian democracy advocates and the country’s opposing political parties, including the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, have mostly indicated that they, too, would continue to uphold the treaty, albeit with some possible modifications, like the number of troops in the Sinai.

But there remains uncertainty over whether a new civilian Egyptian government will be as wedded to the treaty as the Egyptian military has been, which is why the administration has trod so carefully in Egypt. At the same time, the United States has also taken pains to build relations with Egypt’s new political leaders.

Of all of the countries undergoing tumult in the Middle East this year, there is none more central to American interests than Egypt. The United States can afford to maintain a low profile in Syria, where America has had little influence for decades; it can stick by the royal family in Bahrain, where the United States Fifth Fleet is based but which is not seen as pivotal to influence the region.

But Egypt is different. “In terms of the weight of any single country, Egypt outweighs them all,” said Rob Malley, program director for the Middle East and North Africa with the International Crisis Group. “The reason why is because of its size, its population, the historical role its played in influencing Arab public opinion, and, of course, from the U.S. point of view, because of its peace agreement with Israel.”
858 2011-11-26 The goal, according to that release, was to “investigate the use of language in the field of performance by visual artists versus that of theater actors.” This seems a little redundant, given that Performa takes place in New York and is surrounded by theaters full of actors; the contrast is already there. The phrase’s blandness suggests something Ms. Goldberg made up when she realized how many of her main events were tending toward conventional theater.

In retrospect, the words reflect both the problems that plagued Performa 11 and its strange contrapuntal energy. Namely its commissions, at least, formed a kind of argument about what is and is not performance art, or, more specifically, what constitutes a particular kind of performance art that is implied by the term “visual art performance.”

The argument was in many ways between events in which actors followed scripts, and events in which things proceeded in a much less predictable, more open-ended fashion. In these instances there was little if any theatrical illusion or separation of audience and performers, resulting in a greater sense of process and reality. Although they had patches of tedium, these events also offered moments, sometimes quite brief, of exhilarating vulnerability and openness, the sense of something coming together before your very eyes. Visual art performance may be, above all, a form of Process Art.

Every event I saw had a redeeming thrill or two, but that didn’t make it performance art. Much of it was standard theater. This included “Happy Days in the Art World,” the opening-night play by the Scandinavian art team Elmgreen & Dragset. Inspired by Beckett’s “Waiting for Godot,” it was a trifle larded with art world in-jokes but brightened by the fine acting of Joseph Fiennes and Charles Edwards.

Simon Fujiwara’s “Boy Who Cried Wolf” had the immensely appealing Mr. Fujiwara himself at its center and an intriguing tapestry of narratives, including one built around those wedding pictures. But basically it pushed Spalding Gray’s autobiographical monologues back toward conventional theater.

“Overruled,” a play by Shoja Azari and Berhang Azari, directed by the Iranian video-installation artist Shirin Neshat, which centered on the blasphemy trial of a 10th-century mystic, was a rather simplistic polemical harangue — bad Brecht was my first thought — despite the heart-rending singing of the expatriate Iranian musician Mohsen Namjoo.

And “The Battle of Yestermore,” a lively first-time performance work by the artist Iona Rozeal Brown, translated her gangsta-geisha portrait paintings into real life while showcasing her brilliant skills as a D.J. and mixologist. But this tale of monsters and princesses spiced by voguing and break dancing felt like an Off Off Broadway hit waiting to happen.

Similarly, I loved watching the amazing Kristin Anna Valtysdottir lead a team of Icelandic musicians, along with Aono Jikken Ensemble, in providing the music, dialogue and sound effects for Guy Maddin’s 1989 cult classic, “Tales From the Gimli Hospital.” But the polish and precision, the perfect dovetailing of moving image and live sound, seemed in some ways the opposite of performance art.

In fact, all of these events seemed too canned or framed to qualify as performance art, or at least as “visual art performance.” The so-called fourth wall of theater seemed very much in place.

On the other hand, several works that evinced more in the way of unpredictability, process and close brushes with real life had déjà vu problems, mustering a kind of old-time performance-art disjointedness, even when bits of new technology were involved. You often felt you were seeing works in progress, although there are worse things than emerging from an event wondering, “What was that?” and having it stick in your mind for days.

This was the case with Ming Wong’s “Persona Performa.” Based on Bergman’s film “Persona,” and incorporating video installation, dance and live projections, it teetered fascinatingly between reality and art, but was also overly indebted to the 1970s work of Dan Graham and Trisha Brown.

In the fitful “Put a Song in Your Thing,” the artist Frances Stark ruminated, mostly in words typed onto a screen, on the difficulty of making art, and sexted with her Internet lover, repeatedly donning and shedding an elaborate dress in the shape of a rotary-dial telephone. Finally, wearing little but a net bodysuit, she erupted into the latest athletic, suggestive form of club dancing, called daggering, with a handsome D.J. named Skerrit Bwoy, achieving something that felt shockingly real and risqué.

The results were similarly erratic when the video artist Laurel Nakadate teamed up with the versatile actor James Franco for “Three Performances in Search of Tennessee,” a concoction that swirled uneasily around “The Glass Menagerie,” with a combination of séance, karaoke auditions and improvised readings from the script.

Among the commissions I saw, Performa 11’s most genuinely transformative moments came in the final week. In a series of skits that turned exchanges between television anchors and political figures — including the likes of Glenn Beck, Sarah Palin and the Clintons — into hilariously charged personal encounters, Ms. Laser’s “I Feel Your Pain” brought audience, performers and camera crews together in what felt like a new kind of space. The actors performed seated in, or moving through, the audience, but their images were also projected on the theater’s big screen, along with those of many audience members. Especially in the first of the two performances, the sense of conspiratorial participation was intoxicating.

Five days later Mr. Kjartansson’s “Bliss” turned a snippet of Mozart at his most sublime into a work of endurance art. Basically, Mr. Kjartansson had a group of professional opera singers in period costume, accompanied by a small orchestra, repeat for 12 hours the denouement of “The Marriage of Figaro,” in which the Countess forgives the rascal Count with a brief aria, repeated by the entire cast, that is, in itself, a form of divine redemption.

You expected this daffy, dazzling, infinitely touching thing to unravel and degenerate as drinks and snacks were passed around, rest breaks were taken, and voices noticeably weakened. And yet fall apart it did not. Under the vigorous baton of the somewhat obstreperous David Thor Jonsson, a jazz musician and frequent Kjartansson collaborator, and led by the seasoned tenor Kristjan Johannsson, who, as the Count, never left the stage, day turned to night, and art, or at least Mozart, triumphed over the encroaching chaos of life. Once again the audience, the performers, the ingeniously recycled material and the space itself merged into something that felt new and whole, something that was being created with our help, as we watched.

Let’s hope that the next Performa will trim its sails, tighten its focus and deliver moments like these at a higher rate than its immediate predecessor.
859 2011-11-26 IN the eight decades before the recent recession, there was never a period when as much as 9 percent of American gross domestic product went to companies in the form of after-tax profits. Now the figure is over 10 percent.

During the same period, there never was a quarter when wage and salary income amounted to less than 45 percent of the economy. Now the figure is below 44 percent.

For companies, these are boom times. For workers, the opposite is true.

The government’s first estimate of corporate profits in the third quarter was released two days before Thanksgiving, at the same time it revised the rate of G.D.P. growth in the quarter down to an annual rate of 2.0 percent.

The report showed that effective tax rates, both corporate and personal, are well below where they were during most of the post-World War II era.

Corporate profits after taxes were estimated to be $1.56 trillion, at an annual rate, during the quarter, or 10.3 percent of the size of the economy, up from 10.1 percent in the second quarter. Until 2010, the government had never reported even a single quarter in which the corporate share was as high as 9 percent, as can be seen in the accompanying charts.
860 2011-11-27 A data-driven culture, which has been at the root of Zynga's success, could become a serious liability, several former senior employees warn....
861 2011-11-27 A data-driven culture, which has been at the root of Zynga's success, could become a serious liability, several former senior employees warn....
862 2011-11-27 Debt without deficits?...
863 2011-11-27 Debt without deficits?...
864 2011-11-27 Jeranimo beat War Element by two and three-quarter lengths in the $250,000 Citation Handicap at Hollywood Park in a victory overshadowed by injuries and the deaths of two horses. Bob Black Jack had to be vanned off with a front left leg injury. Irrefutable, the runner-up in the $100,000 Vernon O. Underwood Stakes, died right after the race. In the fourth race, the favorite Waltzing With Blue was euthanized after injuring his left front leg.
865 2011-11-27 Ryan Boatright was playing in his first game for No. 4 Connecticut. Shabazz Napier was coming off a miserable performance against Central Florida.

Boatright, a freshman, made three free throws with seven seconds left in regulation, Napier scored 26 points and the Huskies beat No. 22 Florida State, 78-76, in overtime Saturday in the consolation game of the Battle 4 Atlantis at Paradise Island, Bahamas. On Friday, Connecticut had lost to Central Florida, 68-63.

“I’m proud of our kids,” Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun said. “Boatright doesn’t get much play, but he has an awful lot of courage. He didn’t know if he was going to play today or two months from now.”

Boatright’s free throws tied the score at 71. He finished with 14 points and 3 assists in 33 minutes.

“I knew everyone thought I was going to miss those,” Boatright said of his trip to the line.

Jeremy Lamb added 19 points for Connecticut (6-1), which shot 48 percent from the field and 11 for 25 from 3-point range. The freshman Andre Drummond had 12 points, 10 rebounds, 7 blocked shots and 3 steals.
866 2011-11-27 Four people in the Philippines hacked into the accounts of AT&T business customers in the United States and diverted money to a group that financed terrorist attacks across Asia, according to police officials in the Philippines.

A statement from the Philippines Criminal Investigation and Detection Group, a law enforcement agency, said three men and one woman had been arrested in raids across the capital, Manila, last week.

According to the agency, the men were working with a group called Jemaah Islamiyah, a terrorist group linked to Al Qaeda and responsible for the 2002 bombings in Bali, which killed 202 people.

The group has been held responsible for several other terrorist attacks in Southeast Asia, mostly in Indonesia but including the Philippines.

If the new accusation holds up, it would point to a troubling connection between hackers and terrorist cells.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said on Saturday that it was working with the police in the Philippines on the investigation into the telephone hacking effort, which apparently began as early as 2009.
867 2011-11-27 Today, he is content in his role as senior vice president for strategic marketing and field operations at the National Wild Turkey Federation in Edgefield, S.C., where he feels that he is living his personal mission to help conserve natural habitats. “I love that I’m finally in a position to worry about the high-level strategy instead of the other stuff, which just sapped my energy,” he says. “It’s really freeing.”

Many prospective entrepreneurs fail to realize that office politics are everywhere, and that you can’t escape them when you strike out on your own. You may still have to contend with rude clients and partners, with many situations feeling eerily similar to those of your days by the water cooler. And you often learn the hard way that people tend to clash regardless of the environment.

There are other reasons you may want to steer clear of the entrepreneurial path. First, there’s the sheer difficulty of finding a market niche for your product or service, as well as the proper resources to make a new business happen. Then there are the minutiae. As the founder, you will find that anything and everything is your responsibility. You will oversee production, distribution, marketing, sales and turning a profit. You’ll have to manage employees and vendors, and pesky details like accounting, taxes, insurance and licenses.

Would-be entrepreneurs who want to have a better work-life balance are in for a rude awakening. For at least the first few years, you may be on the job at all hours. If a customer has a problem in the middle of the night, you are the one who’s getting up to address it. And if the company goes under, you are solely accountable for that failure, sacrificing your financial livelihood in the process.

These days, the traditional business world gets a bad rap. But there are some highly valuable aspects of regular jobs that we don’t think about until they are gone. These are the three P’s: peace, prestige and perks.

When you are one employee out of 1,000 or 100,000, you have much more peace. It’s actually possible to leave your work woes at the office and turn off your BlackBerry without jeopardizing the company’s future. Life is simpler. You have a defined set of responsibilities, and if you carry them out well and get results, you can go about your business with the certainty that the rest of the company can take care of itself.

And if you are intelligent and personable, you can rise to a respectable place in an esteemed organization. Your friends and family won’t fidget nervously when you tell them about your job. Being able to put a known company on your résumé equals credibility and opens career doors.

Finally, don’t forget about the perks. At a large organization, your compensation package is just that: a package. Besides base salary, the money your employer contributes to your health insurance and retirement plans can be essential to surviving in today’s world. And don’t discount the value of possible benefits like cars, gym memberships, child care, on-the-job lunches and big discounts on company products.

THE corporate world also gives you the opportunity to be around lots of people all the time. And, inevitably, some will be executives in a position to help with your career. The ability to establish relationships with powerful people in the context of your daily work is the best kind of networking out there.

The entrepreneurial lifestyle isn’t for everyone. It wasn’t for Mr. Cleary, and it may not be for you. Before you decide to take the plunge, think long and hard about what you’ll be getting yourself into, and what you’ll be giving up.
868 2011-11-27 Paul Yule, who made a 2006 documentary about the D’Oliveira episode, “Not Cricket,” said in an interview on D’Oliveira’s Web site that his significance came from his role in “a pivotal point in 20th-century politics,” not from his sporting skills, though they were indisputable.

“Here was a man who didn’t look particularly dark-skinned,” Yule said, “but the inequality of the South African system meant you were classified either white or nonwhite, and since he was classified as nonwhite, he could play no part in the national sporting life of his country.”

D’Oliveira, who was of Indian-Portuguese heritage, was easily classified as colored. Many other nonwhite cricketers were subjected to what was called the pencil test to determine which segregated league they would play in. A pencil was placed in a player’s hair, and if the pencil fell out, the player was called colored and placed in the colored league. If it stayed put, he was judged black and placed in the black league.

South Africa was ostracized in global sports beginning in the 1950s with table tennis. By 1964 antiapartheid organizers had succeeded in getting the country barred from that year’s Olympics, and in 1970 the International Olympic Committee expelled the country from the Olympic movement.

The country’s absence from international sports rankled South Africans; by 1977 they ranked it in a poll as one of the three most damaging consequences of apartheid.

South Africa had been selecting exclusively white cricket teams for test matches since 1889. As the game blossomed in places like the Caribbean, India and Pakistan, South Africa found itself playing only all-white teams from England, Australia and New Zealand. Peter Oborne, in the 2004 book “Basil D’Oliveira, Cricket and Conspiracy: The Untold Story,” said the cricket authorities justified this by saying that cricket was a sport for whites, and that if blacks or coloreds did take it up, they “played at an abysmally low level.”

Basil Lewis D’Oliveira, a tailor’s son, disproved this by excelling on the cricket fields around Cape Town, where he was most often said to have been born on Oct. 4, 1931. He went on to become a star performer on nonwhite teams, in one year captaining a black team on a trip to Kenya.

But he was in his late 20s when he realized he had no hope of taking part in top competition in South Africa. A vaunted West Indian team was scheduled to tour the country in matches against a team composed of blacks and coloreds, of which D’Oliveira was captain, but when antiapartheid forces protested that such a high-profile sports event might give credibility to the regime, the trip was canceled.

Deciding to leave the country, D’Oliveira wrote to John Arlott, a prominent cricket commentator in England, asking for help. Arlott got him a contract with a minor league team in the Lancashire League.

At first D’Oliveira was lonely and poverty-stricken. Having lived so long under apartheid, he found himself searching in vain for playing-field entrances and facilities for nonwhites. After a slow start, his play picked up, and his wife and son, who survive him, joined him. He eventually earned a spot on England’s national team.

When he sought to join the squad for the trip to South Africa, however, the sport’s governing body in England, the Marylebone Cricket Club, turned him down. Its officials said he had been passed over for athletic reasons, an assertion British newspapers called outlandish. It later emerged that the president of South Africa, John Vorster, had threatened to cancel the event if D’Oliveira was part of the team.

Still, when another player was injured, the cricket club had a change of heart and named D’Oliveira to replace him. D’Oliveira said the South African government offered him a sizable bribe and a coaching job in South Africa if he would withdraw. When he refused, it terminated the competition rather than accept him.

Queen Elizabeth made D’Oliveira an officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1969 and promoted him to a commander in 2005. In 2000 he was named one of the 10 South African cricketers of the century, despite not having played for South Africa. The trophy for the test series between England and South Africa is named for him.

D’Oliveira played in the top division of English cricket into his late 40s. Most cricketers retire in their early 30s. He just wished that he could have hit the big stage sooner, say in his 20s, he said in 1980.

“I was some player then,” he said. “I was over the hill when I came to England.”
869 2011-11-27 Richard Buangan, a spokesman for the United States Embassy in Beijing, said that American diplomats had had little success in pressing his case with Chinese officials. “No authority has been cooperative with our request for information on the restrictions that block his departure from China,” he said.

Mr. Hu’s predicament highlights the potential perils of doing business in China, where commercial disputes can easily become criminal matters, especially when the politically well-connected use the country’s malleable legal system to bludgeon rivals. Most worrisome, legal experts say, are the country’s vague commercial secrets laws that state-owned enterprises — the companies that dominate China’s economy — sometimes wield to protect information related to production, procurement, mergers and strategic planning.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that overseas Chinese are more vulnerable to such abuses than their non-Chinese compatriots. Last year, Stern Hu, a Chinese-Australian mining executive, was detained shortly after a deal between his company, Rio Tinto, and the state-owned Aluminum Corporation of China fell through. Convicted of stealing trade secrets and bribery, Mr. Hu was sentenced to 10 years in prison after a largely closed trial.

Xue Feng, a Chinese-American geologist who is serving eight years in prison on similar charges, said he was tortured during his interrogation. His supporters, including American diplomats, insist that the oil and gas industry data he sold was publicly available. In 2008, the authorities executed Wo Weihan, a Chinese biomedical researcher who had returned from Europe to start a medical supply company in Beijing. Tried in secret, Mr. Wo was accused of espionage, although the details of his crimes were never disclosed.

Even as official policies seek to lure Chinese-born inventors, academics and entrepreneurs with housing perks and financial incentives, lingering anti-Western xenophobia nurtured during the Mao years sometimes taints them as unpatriotic for having left. “It’s kind of reverse racism,” said John Kamm, executive director of Dui Hua, an American human rights group that frequently advocates on behalf of detained foreign nationals in China. “If you’re ethnic Chinese with a foreign passport, you’re really not considered a foreigner.”

Mr. Hu, whose long résumé includes stints as a researcher in Japan and more than a decade working for an American designer of catalytic converters, the Engelhard Corporation, would seem to be the ideal returnee.

In 2006, when he took a job as chief scientist for Wuxi Weifu Environmental Catalysts, a company in eastern Jiangsu Province, he also brought his wife and their two American-born children, in part, he says, because he wanted them to become steeped in Chinese language and culture.

His return coincided with a surge in domestic car production and government-led efforts to reduce tailpipe emissions. The company prospered, and so did Mr. Hu, who eventually became Wuxi Weifu’s president. It now provides catalytic converters for half of all Chinese-made cars.

Mr. Hu’s troubles began after his company refused to buy components from the Hysci Specialty Materials Company, which is based in Tianjin and once supplied Engelhard.

According to Mr. Hu and his lawyers, Hysci would not take no for an answer. They say Hysci’s well-connected chief executive, Dou Shihua, sent Tianjin public security agents to Wuxi Weifu to pressure Mr. Hu to change his mind.

The police raised allegations of stolen trade secrets but also suggested that the accusations would evaporate if the two companies did business together. Mr. Hu would not budge. “We have a system of quality control, and even one word from me could not change that,” he said.

In the end, the veiled threats gave way to an arrest, and Mr. Hu was put in a jail in Tianjin.

The patent infringement case that prosecutors eventually built against him cited technology that has been publicly available in the United States for decades, according to several scientists who rallied to his defense.

But even after prosecutors withdrew the case and Mr. Hu was freed, he found his return home blocked by immigration officials who claimed that he was still wanted by the Tianjin police. Each time he or his lawyer contacted the authorities there, however, they were told there were no such restrictions.

One of his lawyers, Wang Shou, said he believed that Mr. Dou, Hysci’s chief executive, was continuing to use his influence to exact revenge or get a deal yet.

Reached by telephone, a sales executive at Hysci refused to comment on the case. The Tianjin Public Security Bureau hung up before answering questions about Mr. Hu.

His family does not know what else to do. Although his daughter visited last summer, Mr. Hu’s wife and 16-year-old son are reluctant to come here, saying they fear they, too, could be prevented from leaving.

“I worry about my husband every hour of every day,” his wife, Hong Li, who is also an engineer, said by telephone from Los Angeles. “I don’t want my son to grow up without a father.”

The emotional anguish suffered by Mr. Hu has been compounded by pain from a herniated disc that worsened during the 17 months he slept on the floor of his jail cell.

Earlier this month, at a chemical engineering conference on the outskirts of Beijing, he lectured about ways to reduce emissions from heavy trucks in China.

As the conference wound down and his American colleagues headed to the airport, he made a joke about escaping across the border.

“If I could only invent something that would make me invisible,” he said.
870 2011-11-27 While most state agencies are feeling a squeeze, legislatures squeeze courts at the risk of violating the access to the courts guaranteed in criminal and civil matters by the Constitution, said Steven Zack, a former president of the American Bar Association. Set up to be coequal branches of government, the courts are nonetheless dependent on the legislative and executive branches.

“The real failure of the legislatures is to treat the courts as another bridge or another library,” Mr. Zack said. “It is not another bridge or another library. Without a working court system, our very democracy is at stake.”

The bar association created the Task Force on the Preservation of the Justice System, led by Mr. Boies and Theodore B. Olson, who served as solicitor general under President George W. Bush, to study financial issues and recommend courses of action.

“There has not been a natural constituency for the justice system,” Mr. Boies said. The rule of law, civil rights and the market economy are all profoundly affected by the courts, he noted, so, “Whatever is important to you, it’s ultimately the justice system that is protecting it and advancing it.”

While dockets are bulging with foreclosures and other pressing legal matters, 42 states have reduced their judicial budgets in the previous three fiscal years, with cuts in some jurisdictions totaling more than 12 percent. In the last three years, 34 states have laid off court employees, 39 have stopped filling clerk vacancies and 23 have reduced court operating hours, according to the National Center for State Courts.

State courts hear 95 percent of the nation’s legal cases, so the cuts are affecting the level where most people encounter the justice system, said Rebecca Love Kourlis, a former Colorado Supreme Court justice who is executive director of the Institute for the Advancement of the American Legal System at the University of Denver and co-author of a new book about the plight of the nation’s civil courts.

“For most Americans, Lady Justice lives in the halls of state courts,” she said. “Whether it is a divorce, traffic ticket, foreclosure or personal injury case that draws someone into the system, they will find themselves in state court.”

State courts around the country have found many ways, some unusual, to deal with the cuts. In Mount Gilead, Ohio, the Morrow County Municipal Court, like many others, is now working a four-day week. And that is not as large a hardship as the county experienced in 2009, when the court announced that it could not take new case filings for three months, until the end of the budget cycle, unless litigants brought their own paper for the court to use. Money for paper had run out.

“Even though paper is inexpensive, it’s still enough to shut us down,” said Judge Lee W. McClelland. Ultimately, he said, people in the community donated enough paper so that “we were able to limp through the year.”

“We also got about three rolls of toilet paper,” he said. “Obviously, they were confused about what kind of paper we needed.”

The courts are now looking at electronic filing to avoid the situation in the future.

Chief Justice Carol W. Hunstein of the Georgia Supreme Court said that after two and a half years of budget cuts for her state’s courts, “it has gotten to the point where it is difficult to say that we are delivering the constitutionally required judicial system.”

The implications are troubling for the state as a whole, she suggested: “I don’t know that you would have a new business or corporation that would want to relocate in a state where you couldn’t get your contract disputes or your business disputes resolved in a timely fashion.”

In Glynn County, Ga., Judge Amanda F. Williams issued a moratorium on all civil jury trials in 2009; because criminal defendants have a constitutional right to speedy trial, she said, her courts had put them first, along with domestic cases like divorce.

“You can’t leave people in jail,” she said, and “you can’t have somebody out there if they should be in jail.”

Domestic cases also came ahead of civil jury trials, Judge Williams said. “You can’t have people tied to each other when they can’t live together,” she said.

Judge Williams said she had to ask herself, “Which one can I put on the back burner a little bit longer? It’s obviously what you call the car wreck case.”

Ultimately, a newly appointed judge was assigned solely to civil trials for more than a year to ease the backlog, she said, but the budget problems remain and require further action.

In states like New Hampshire, there is a real impact from court budget cuts, said John T. Broderick, a former chief justice of the New Hampshire Supreme Court and now dean of the University of New Hampshire Law School. “I’ve been a lawyer and judge in New Hampshire for 38 years — I’ve never seen it like this.”

Mr. Simoneau, the Haggies’ lawyer, said that when he tells potential clients in personal injury cases that they might have to wait two or three years for resolution of their claims, some take settlement offers far lower than what a trial might result in. “They can’t afford to wait,” he said.

Meanwhile, the Haggies are getting more regular visits with their children, now 4 and 5 years old, and are still working through the process of gaining full custody.

But much has already been lost, Ms. Haggie said. “By the time they came, the clothes didn’t fit them anymore.”
871 2011-11-27 Opacity hurts customers because they can’t see a wide array of prices. But dealers can — so they have an edge that plumps up their profits. One estimate from the Swaps and Derivatives Market Association puts transaction costs in the swap markets at $50 billion annually. These costs would decline by $15 billion a year, the group recently estimated, if pricing were transparent.

The C.F.T.C. is trying to get there. Dodd-Frank requires it to oversee so-called swap execution facilities that will trade or process derivatives transactions. Late last year, in the interest of price transparency, the commission proposed that entities applying to be S.E.F.’s must agree to provide market participants with the ability to post prices on “a centralized electronic screen” that is widely accessible. One-to-one dealings by phone would no longer be allowed.

Those on Wall Street who favor the status quo are upset, and have found some sympathy in Washington.

Representative Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, has teamed up with Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat, to introduce the Swap Execution Facility Clarification Act. It would bar the Securities and Exchange Commission and the C.F.T.C. from requiring swap execution facilities to have a minimum number of participants or mandating displays of prices. Both mechanisms promote transparency.

Mr. Garrett said the bill directed regulators “to provide market participants with the flexibility” they need to obtain price discovery. This means maintaining the old system that can keep prices in the shadows.

On Nov. 15, a House subcommittee approved the bill by a voice vote.

Because Mr. Garrett opposed Dodd-Frank, his efforts to stop the proposed rule are not surprising. But Ms. Maloney supported Dodd-Frank, so I wondered why she had lent her name to the bill.

In an interview last Wednesday, Ms. Maloney said she had heard concerns about the C.F.T.C. rule from financial firms in her district. “I just felt like that Congress intended multiple competing trade execution platforms and that included voice,” she said. “If you say you can’t have any voice, aren’t you limiting the modes of trade execution?” She also said she was concerned about job losses on Wall Street.

Testifying in the House on Oct. 14 as a representative of the Wholesale Market Brokers Association was Shawn Bernardo, a senior managing director at Tullett Prebon, an institutional brokerage firm. Mr. Bernardo articulated the argument against screen-based trading that would show multiple bids and offers to swaps customers.

“Congress made clear in Dodd-Frank that S.E.F.’s may conduct business using, quote, ‘any means of interstate commerce,’ ” he said. That includes methods that don’t require a centralized pricing platform, he said.

Wall Street firms want to keep providing prices to customers one-to-one. The S.E.C., which governs credit default swaps on single-name issuers, allows the practice. But those markets trade by appointment, compared with most swaps markets, which are overseen by the C.F.T.C.

While many on Wall Street have objected to the C.F.T.C.’s proposed rule, swaps customers like it. The Industrial Energy Consumers of America, a group of manufacturers with combined annual sales of $800 billion, calls transparency in the swaps market “critical.” In a letter to the C.F.T.C. last May, the group urged the commission to be “vigilant in ensuring that swap execution facilities provide an open and competitive marketplace for discovering prices.”

Better Markets, a nonprofit organization that promotes the public interest in financial markets, has also praised the C.F.T.C.’s proposed rule. “It is painfully obvious that the financial crisis, which brought us to the brink of international economic collapse, was in large part the result of a ‘shadow’ or nontransparent financial market,” Dennis M. Kelleher, the chief executive of Better Markets, wrote in a comment letter. “The Dodd-Frank act requires that ‘business as usual’ must change.”

Not if Wall Street can help it. And it is throwing money at Washington to ensure that its views are heard.

IN an interview last week, Gary Gensler, the C.F.T.C. chairman, said he hoped to get the rule through early next year.

“Economists for decades have shown that transparency lowers margins, leads to greater liquidity and more competition in the marketplace,” Mr. Gensler said. “Tens of thousands of companies that use these products, and their customers, the American public, can benefit from more competition in the pricing of these contracts. Transparent pricing is also a critical feature of lowering the risk at the banks, and at the derivatives clearinghouses as well.”

But unenlightened investors can be mighty profitable. As Ferdinand Pecora, the Depression-era prosecutor, is supposed to have said of the events leading to the Wall Street crash of 1929: Pitch darkness was among the bankers’ stoutest allies.
872 2011-11-27 “It’s not putting someone on the moon, but it’s a state version of making a giant leap forward,” said Bob Blumenfield, a Democrat in the State Assembly. “We in California pioneered the public project. It’s not a luxury; it’s a critical piece of infrastructure.”

The governor has enthusiastically embraced the plan, no matter that at 73, he seems unlikely to be around for a ribbon-cutting ceremony that is projected to be more than 20 years away. “California’s high-speed rail project will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, linking California’s population centers and avoiding the huge problems of massive airport and highway expansion,” Mr. Brown said.

The California High-Speed Rail Authority projected that the bullet train would create 100,000 jobs and argued that one way or another, California would have to spend money to develop its transportation system to accommodate a population increase of an estimated 25 million over the next 20 years.

“Look, it’s really difficult when you talk about something of this scale,” said John A. Pérez, the speaker of the State Assembly. “There never is a right time to do it. The reality is the longer you wait, the more it costs you.”

“California has always been an ambitious investor in infrastructure,” Mr. Pérez said. “Twenty years down the line, people will look back at it and say, ‘What took them so long?’ ”

The authority, at the prodding of appointees by Mr. Brown, issued what was, by all accounts, a report on the railroad that was more realistic than previous ones had been, including the higher cost and lower ridership projections. It proposed that the project be built in phases, and that no phase be started until all the financing was in place.

The first phase would be a 130-mile stretch from Bakersfield to just south of Chowchilla in central California, at a cost of just over $6 billion; of that, $2.6 billion would come from a $9 billion high-speed rail bond passed by California voters in 2008, and $3.5 billion from federal stimulus money.

“This business plan takes us a step forward,” said Alan Lowenthal, the chairman of the State Senate Select Committee on High-Speed Rail. “We are more cautiously optimistic. But these are staggering amounts of money.”

Emily Rusch, the director of the California Public Interest Research Group, said: “I actually walked away from the new business plan cautiously optimistic about the project’s future. There’s no question that California needs to invest in more and better transportation.”

The authority said it chose the relatively remote section in the Central Valley as the first leg to be built, even though few people there are looking to use a railroad, so that construction could begin next year and meet deadlines for using federal money. But critics suggest that the real motivation was to get the spur in place, calculating that future legislatures would not be able to abandon the project before it reached major population centers.

“What they are hoping is that this will be to high-speed rail what was to foreign policy: that once you’re in there, you have to get in deeper,” said Richard White, a professor of history at . “The most logical outcome to me is we are going to have a white elephant in the San Joaquin Valley.”

There is no plan on how to finance the project once the bond and federal money is exhausted, beyond a hope of private investment and public money during flusher times. Dan Richard, one of two people appointed by Mr. Brown to the rail authority, said that under the plan, each leg would be built only after the financing source was identified and would produce enough revenue to cover the costs of its operation. Therefore, he said, “I’m not as concerned about not knowing immediately where the money is coming from.”

Beyond that, several experts suggested that the train would never attract the promised ridership, in no small part because unlike, say, the Northeast Corridor, the bullet train would go into cities that do not have particularly extensive public transit networks, forcing people to rent cars once they arrived. Low ridership would undercut the economic and environmental benefits that are part of the argument for the project.

“The whole thing doesn’t make sense unless you have the riders,” said Richard Geddes, an associate professor at . “Based on historical experience, I tend to be skeptical of the rider projections that I see.”

The Legislature is required to vote to release the bond money in order for the project to go forward. Mr. Lowenthal said that while staggered by the cost, he was looking for a way to make the project work.

“We don’t want to give this up,” he said. “We’re a state that wants to build it. We want the responsibility. We just want to make sure that what we do is successful.”
873 2011-11-27 In his Comedy Central special, which has its premiere next Sunday, Mr. Mencia takes a more personal tack than he has in the past, riffing about his father’s missing thumb and his brother’s taking the citizenship test in Spanish. He also touches on darker topics, like how much firepower the United States expended on starving Somali pirates. The overall theme, though, is the divisions rending the country and how easy we have it, even during tough times.

“I’m from a different country and I’ve traveled,” said the comic, who was born in Honduras and returned there as a teenager. “We’re taking America for granted right now.”

He cites a bit from his act: “ ‘America is such a great country, we have fat poor people.’ It’s one of those jokes that doesn’t hit people right away, because it’s so prevalent that we don’t get it.”

But better joke-telling wasn’t Mr. Mencia’s primary therapeutic goal. He needed to wrap his mind around why he was so disliked. For years, he was dogged by accusations of joke-stealing that became public in 2007 when the comedian Joe Rogan confronted Mr. Mencia during a set at the Comedy Store in Los Angeles. The video went viral, and soon side-by-side comparisons were all over the Internet, comparing Mr. Mencia’s jokes to those of performers as big as Bill Cosby and as small as Ari Shaffir. (“South Park” even addressed the episode.) In the stand-up world, joke-stealing was the worst of several offenses Mr. Mencia was accused of, including bumping comics from club slots and monopolizing the stage.

What tore it for him, though, was when a friend, the comic Juan Villareal, who got his start with the help of Mr. Mencia, relayed stories about fans who thought Mr. Mencia was stealing his material. In fact, the reverse was true, though Mr. Mencia later gave his permission. “I think it bothered him, it really hurt him,” Mr. Villareal said.

Using Mr. Mencia’s given first name, Mr. Villareal explained about his mentor: “Carlos Mencia is the guy you see onstage. I know Ned, who’s gracious, humble, not very flamboyant and very grateful.”

After that incident, Mr. Mencia recalled, he decided he had to be doing something that prompted the vitriol. “That’s when I started taking therapy,” he said, “to begin to take responsibility for my part in whatever the dance is in life, onstage as a performer, as a human being.”

In the midst of this exploration last year, the comedian Marc Maron asked Mr. Mencia to appear on his popular podcast devoted to comedy. The upshot was a still-controversial series of interviews that burnished Mr. Maron’s reputation but cast a harsh light on Mr. Mencia.

“My first interview was really sympathetic, but I wanted him to somehow address this,” Mr. Maron recalled recently by phone. “What happened was he gave me nothing except this pitch of the ‘New Mencia.’ ”

To get some perspective, Mr. Maron interviewed two comics who had worked with Mr. Mencia, Willie Barcena and Steve Trevino. Mr. Barcena mentioned that he wouldn’t go on before Mr. Mencia for fear that his material would be stolen. Mr. Trevino, who admitted that he was eased out of his gig opening for Mr. Mencia, wasn’t nearly as kind, accusing Mr. Mencia of stealing Mr. Cosby’s jokes as well as the entire routine of Freddy Soto, another Mencia protégé, soon after Mr. Soto died, in 2005.

“Does he have original material?” Mr. Trevino asked in a phone interview recently. “Absolutely. But in combination with him stealing material, bumping people, being mean to people, not being generous, all that created this storm.”

Mr. Trevino added: “He is a good comedian and performer. He’s just not a good person and he’s a thief.”

Mr. Maron called Mr. Mencia back to respond. “I was defeated,” Mr. Mencia recalled, saying that the controversy had gotten to a point where it was “so untrue, it’s so far gone, I’m done.” He added: “I don’t know what to say. That was the beginning of the realization that, like it or not, I’m complicit in this.”

In a rambling follow-up interview on the podcast, Mr. Mencia did try to defend himself, but eventually said he might have absorbed material or “run into premises,” as he put it, that might have aped what other comedians had talked about.

“I wanted to stop it — I thought we were done, and he kept talking,” Mr. Maron recalled, adding later, “I didn’t think I sandbagged him, and I picked guys who I thought were pretty sympathetic in the grand scheme of things.”

When Mr. Mencia heard the completed podcast, he said, he was upset, especially after Mr. Maron said he felt “used” after the first interview. Mr. Mencia remembered thinking: “You called me. I didn’t call you to ask you to help me change the perception. You’re using the controversy for your podcast. How am I the bad guy here?”

In the end Mr. Mencia took his version of the high road, something the “old” Mr. Mencia might not have done. If the podcast had happened years ago, he said: “I would have told truths about Steve and Willie that they’d never ever would want anybody to know. I’d be ruthless and very cruel and hurtful.” But the changes in his life “made me not want to be them, more than ever.”

He added: “Guys like Rogan literally want to ruin my career. That’s unbelievably cruel and hurtful, and I never want to be that guy.”

Instead Mr. Mencia is concentrating on spending time with his wife, Amy, and son, Lucas, who turns 5 next month. Over a year since that fateful podcast, Mr. Mencia says it’s his time once again.

“I have an opportunity to do something really amazing,” he said, “to have gone from nothing to ‘Mind of Mencia’ to having all of this controversy to now being able to do it again. I get the opportunity to become Carlos Mencia all over again. It’s a great place to be.”
874 2011-11-27 The inability of Israeli society, Ronen Bergman writes, “to tolerate even a single soldier held in captivity” is likely to continue to have horrific consequences. He reminds us that more than 1,000 Palestinians, among them those convicted of murdering nearly 600 Israelis, are being released in exchange for Gilad Shalit. And nearly half of the prisoners released in previous disproportionate exchanges have resumed their murderous activities. Many innocent Jews are likely to pay with their lives for the Israeli government’s abdication of responsibility for the safety of all its citizens.

Bergman cites Assaf Shariv, a former media adviser to Ariel Sharon, as saying: “I am sure that if Sharon had been prime minister during the last few years, he would have signed the deal for Shalit

long ago. It turns out even the toughest have their weak spots.” Weak spots? Israel’s act of mercy to Shalit — and also to the terrorists it released — was an indication of Israel’s strength, its moral strength. What is weak? Aiming rockets at random civilians is an example of moral and intellectual weakness.

Other than labeling the released Palestinians as dangerous terrorists, Bergman’s extensive article omits an analysis of just who they were. I suspect it was not an oversight. While there were convicted terrorists in the group, there were also people who had been detained but not convicted and adult men who entered prison for long terms as teenagers for throwing rocks at Israeli soldiers or other nonlethal acts. Also included were Palestinian hostages abducted by Israelis to pressure their family members into spying for Israel, a practice Israel has followed for years without a murmur of criticism from Washington, though widely condemned by human rights groups.

Bergman fairly outlines Israel’s history of paying a high price for its kidnapped citizens and soldiers, dead or alive. But what makes a loyal magazine reader and admirer reconsider her loyalty is the crude, misleading cover illustration and headline: “How a single Israeli came to be worth 1,027 Palestinians.” It was Hamas, not Israel, that demanded this number (one reason a deal was not struck earlier, during Shalit’s five years of imprisonment). To illustrate all these lives as if they were of the same circumstances is appalling and disrespectful. Shalit was guilty of no crime, kidnapped from Israeli soil and held hostage without visits from the Red Cross and without proof of life for years at a time. A large number of the Palestinians released were serving terms for murder, as Bergman points out, and were responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Israelis in some of the country’s most gruesome terror attacks.
875 2011-11-27 “No man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money,” Samuel Johnson declared. As the Internet is destroying the business model that has historically supported high-quality journalism, movies, music and television, the conventional wisdom in Silicon Valley is that Johnson was wrong. “Information wants to be free, because the cost of getting it out is getting lower and lower,” technology activists have insisted, selectively quoting the technology thinker Stewart Brand. (In fact, Brand said in the same 1984 speech that on the other hand, “information wants to be expensive, because it’s so valuable.”) According to the worldview embodied by Google and Facebook and many of the best minds in the legal academy and public-­interest community, the culture business is collapsing because the old-style media executives who run Hollywood, cable television, the record companies and newspapers have failed to adjust to the expectations of a demanding new generation of media consumers who want free movies and books and music and news wherever and whenever they’re online.

In “Free Ride,” a book that should change the debate about the future of culture, Robert Levine argues, in effect, that Samuel Johnson was right, and that it’s the self-interested Silicon Valley technology companies and their well-financed advocates who are wrong. “The real conflict online,” Levine writes, “is between the media companies that fund much of the entertainment we read, see and hear and the technology firms that want to distribute their content — legally or otherwise.” By delivering content they don’t pay for, or selling content far below the price it cost to create, Levine says, information and entertainment distributors like YouTube and The Huffington Post become “parasites” on the media companies that invest substantially in journalists, musicians and actors; the distributors drive down prices in a way that sucks the economic lifeblood out of those who create and finance the best achievements of our culture. The result is a “digital version of Wal-Mart capitalism,” in which free-riding distributors reap all the economic benefits of the Internet by cutting prices, and culture suppliers are forced to cut costs in response. This dynamic, Levine argues, destroys the economic incentive to create the kinds of movies, television, music and journalism consumers demand, and for which they are, in fact, quite willing to pay.

Levine’s story begins as a struggle over copyright. He interviews Bruce Lehman, a former Clinton official who championed the policies that led to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Lehman says the 1998 law was supposed to balance the interests of tech companies with those of artists and media companies. He now expresses regret that it has had the unintended consequence of making the fortunes of tech companies while devastating artists and media companies. The law allows distributors like YouTube to profit from pirated movies and video as long as they remove the illegal content when asked by those whose rights have been violated. As a result of this arrangement, YouTube’s own employees were convinced that more than three-quarters of viewing hits in the site’s early days derived from copyrighted video, according to e-mail disclosed in a copyright infringement lawsuit filed by Viacom. Google, which bought YouTube for $1.65 billion in 2006, vigorously denies wrongdoing, but in the wake of the lawsuit, YouTube now takes voluntary steps to filter out copyright-­infringing content — a solution that the studios, according to Levine, view as imperfect but an improvement.

Levine is not a pro-copyright ideologue: he acknowledges the many good reasons to reform copyright, including the fact that the copyrights’ terms are too long and the financial penalties for infringement can be too high. But the biggest problem with copyright today, he says, is that its protections have become illusory in an age when movies and music, produced by independent artists and big studios alike, are available on pirate sites even before they’re released. Because copyright laws are so difficult to enforce, media companies have little leverage when negotiating financial terms with distributors. And so, they’re virtually forced to give their stuff away. That’s what happened with the music industry, which, spooked by the proliferation of pirated file sharing on Napster, struck a bad deal with iTunes that allowed Apple to replace the sale of $15 albums with 99-cent songs. “Even if they continue to grow,” Levine writes, “those 99-cent-song sales won’t come close to making up for the corresponding decline in CD sales.” (Apple can afford to sell content so cheaply because its low-cost music helps to promote more profitable products — in this case, the iPod.) Even with the growth in online audiences, recorded music in the United States was worth $6.3 billion in sales in 2009, less than half its value a decade earlier.

The most successful culture businesses, Levine says, have resisted nostrums about how information yearns to be free and instead have insisted on the old-fashioned strategy of selling something for more than they paid for it. He notes that The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times and The New York Times charge for content, and that some have found that the increased revenue of full-price subscribers more than offsets the decline in digital readership. Similarly, the best TV shows, like “Mad Men,” are produced by cable channels like AMC that hold back their content from Hulu, a network-owned platform for distributing TV over the Internet.

The Hulu model has succeeded on the premise that “if someone was going to make their product available online for nothing, it might as well be them,” as Levine says of the networks. But now Hulu is threatened by start-ups like Boxee and giants like Google TV, which allows people to bring all the free (and paid) content of the Internet — from YouTube, Vimeo, Netflix and other services — to their televisions. The networks and Hulu have blocked Google TV from gaining access to their video, fearing it could cut into the billions of dollars in annual revenue brought in by cable bills. Also in response to Google TV-like services, Time Warner and Comcast are developing a plan called TV Everywhere, which would require Internet users to prove they are cable subscribers in order to watch certain online videos, and in return would give them the convenience of watching the shows they already pay for on any device they choose. The alternative to closed platforms like Hulu and TV Every­where, Levine says, is an open Internet model of free video that, by denying the networks any revenue to invest in shows like “Mad Men,” would instead produce the likes of the viral video “Charlie Bit My Finger.”

In addition to diagnosing “how digital parasites are destroying the culture business,” Levine provides a vision, as his subtitle promises, of “how the culture business can fight back.” His model is Europe, which has a long history of supporting its culture business and, by taking a more combative stand against piracy, is trying to help legal distribution ventures flourish. Instead of filing mass lawsuits against individuals who upload pirated material, Euro­pean regulators have concentrated their efforts on bringing down the most flagrant violators among commercial distributors. Germany has laws forbidding the aggressive discounting of books in chain stores, which has preserved independent booksellers while making it harder for Amazon to introduce the Kindle. And France in 2009 approved a law that would deny Internet access to those who repeatedly violate copyright. Recently, France has begun to revive a business model that thrived in the 19th century: a collective or blanket license that, by adding a fee to Internet connections, would allow the convenient downloading of copyrighted music and divide the money to compensate producers and artists. Levine says the blanket license model could also apply to television and journalism, and would better align the value of content on the Internet with its price.
876 2011-11-27 In his Nov. 6 review of political memoirs by Donald Rumsfeld (“Known and Unknown”) and Dick Cheney (“In My Time”), Alan Brinkley asserts that I insisted, “with no visible evidence,” that Saddam Hussein wanted to recreate Iraq’s capability to produce weapons of mass destruction. The 2004 report of the Iraq Survey Group (which I headed — it is known as the Duelfer report) was over 1,200 pages and contained much original data collected at great cost in time, energy and lives. The Iraq W.M.D. picture was complicated, but certainly Hussein retained the ambition to reconstitute his programs when circumstances permitted. There is much data to support this in the report, which is available online. In addition, there is still more data now available through the Conflict Records Research Center, which is making available translations of recordings of Hussein’s key meetings.

Many contributed to the Iraq Survey Group report and its credibility has withstood both politics and time.
877 2011-11-27 Caterina spent most of her Roman days in the papal palace. Yet there were worse places to be in confinement. Pope Sixtus IV had just presided over the completion of the Sistine Chapel, and Lorenzo de’ Medici sent Florentine painters to help decorate its walls, among them Sandro Botticelli. Into one of his panels, he inserted “a single graceful female figure: . . . Caterina, entering the sixth month of her pregnancy with her third child.” The artist, Lev remarks, seems to have been taken “not only with the beauty of the countess but also with her vibrant energy.”

As her husband’s health deteriorated, Caterina took over the governance of their dominions. But by the time she was preparing to act on a larger stage, I found myself longing for a soundtrack ringing with the strains of an opera. You may well have to be an opera buff to know how to follow such an intricate plot — you let it wash over you, knowing that eventually things will sort themselves out.

While her husband convalesced, Caterina was barred from one of Forlì’s most important fortresses. Despite being “pregnant up to her throat,” as her contemporaries described her, she plotted the murder of the castle’s keeper and recaptured this prize. By the time her husband was assassinated, she was busy governing Forlì and fending off kidnappers and traitors. During one siege on her fortress, “the Venetian ambassador, floored by her audacity” when confronted by the spears and daggers aimed at her children, her sister and her mother, called her a tigress, “willing to eat her young to gain power.”

She was also, apparently, a tigress in love. Falling for Giacomo Feo, a glorified stable boy, she had him knighted, secretly married him and bore his child. Blinded by her passion, she ignored signs of growing unrest among her people — and the jealousy of her oldest son. When Feo was murdered, the sight of his mutilated corpse drove Caterina to systematic vengeance: 38 people were killed, and many others were tortured, exiled or imprisoned in a ruthless, coldblooded rampage.

Throughout, Caterina continued to appreciate the finer things in life. In her widowhood, she built a sensuous sanctum called Il Paradiso, with high vaulted ceilings, carved columns, painted wall panels and “delicately designed” ceramic tiled floors. She planted herbs and began to make beauty creams and medicinal potions. And into this scene of quiet domestic grace came a suitable Medici, Giovanni di Pierfrancesco. She bore him a child. At 35, she was serenely happy, contemplating spiritual matters under the tutelage of a brilliant preacher, Savonarola.

Within a year, Caterina’s third husband was dead of a fever. Her fortress was attacked by Venice. Machiavelli, sent by the Florentines to negotiate with her, “probably . . . thought he would charm the countess into conceding her soldiers immediately and then spend a pleasant interval in Forlì, enjoying her favors.” Instead, she played him along, humiliating him.

Caterina’s greatest enemy proved to be Cesare Borgia, the son of a pope, a man many called “the Antichrist.” While her people deserted her, Caterina strode out to meet him as he swept in on a white horse: “She strapped on her cuirass. . . . The steel was shaped to her curves and reinforced to prevent crushing or compressing her breasts. . . . Tiny plates fit perfectly together to allow for a wide range of movement.” Caterina then waged a battle of such breathtaking intensity that her bravery was heralded throughout Europe. She was taken prisoner and raped by the sadistic Borgia as “the rest of Italy mourned her plight.” Finally, she was thrown into prison.

Two of Caterina’s sons proved to be worse than useless. Possessed of none of the matriarchal spine, they allied themselves with their mother’s captor. Yet eventually she prevailed. Caterina had lost everything, but she won her freedom — although not for long. She died in 1509, at the age of 46.

It’s nearly impossible to keep everyone in Caterina’s story straight, so complex and interwoven are the warring kingdoms, feuding cousins, corrupt popes and hapless husbands and lovers. Yet Caterina’s tale is also as action-packed as “Game of Thrones.” It was made into a movie in 1959, starring the Italian actress Virna Lisi, but surely someone will be tempted to try a remake.

Meantime, sisters, rejoice in a tale of feminism gone wild. We have yet to see the likes of Caterina in our day. Surely she offers an interesting perspective on our own maneuverings. She had it all; she did it all; she won, and lost, it all.
878 2011-11-27 Don’t let the term “club” mislead you: these open-to-all restaurants are about as welcoming as it gets. The term is a holdover from the Prohibition era, when all-in-one establishments offering dinner, drinks and dancing got their start in Wisconsin. The dancing component is mostly gone, but good supper clubs have fine-tuned the rituals of dining and drinking to near perfection.

My visit to the Al-Gen was the culmination — or nearly so — of a three-day road trip I’d embarked on with my wife, Michele, through a hundred-odd miles of northern Wisconsin in search of these living vestiges of the pre-Interstate era. The day before, we’d visited a handful of hoary old supper clubs with names like McGregor’s Blink Bonnie and Marty’s Place North, but at the Al-Gen I felt we’d really hit our stride. Before we were halfway through our drinks, Michele struck up a conversation with a woman in her 60s named Karen who had remarked by way of introduction, “Hey, we’re wearing the same shoes!” Ten minutes later the hostess had added two place settings to their table and we were sitting down to dinner with Karen and her husband, Rollie, tucking into prime rib and broiled walleye. “We’ve been coming to the Al-Gen for years,” Rollie said. “We’ve moved around a lot, and this place sometimes feels like the only constant in our life.”

Consistency and a loyal clientele are the central pillars of any worthy supper club’s operation. People go back to these places again and again over the span of decades — not for gastronomic discovery but for comfort, for that peculiar sense of well-being experienced when eating food that is delicious in precisely the same way it was when you were a child. To this day a supper club meal remains the common touchstone for me and my far-flung siblings whenever we pay a visit to my parents in Wisconsin. I actually choked up when my daughter, now 4, tried her first fried cheese curd (a classic Wisconsin appetizer) at the Sister Bay Bowl, a supper club in Door County that my family has been going to for 35 years.

“Consistency is the hardest part of the job,” said the owner of the Al-Gen, a ruddy-cheeked man in his late 40s named Rob Swearingen. “Everything has to be just right, every day, week after week.” To judge from the capacity crowd on the night we visited, his cooks were sticking to the script faithfully.

After our meal, at Mr. Swearingen’s suggestion, Michele and I drove north on Route 17 to a supper club called the White Stag Inn to end the evening with an ice cream cocktail, an after-dinner tradition in Wisconsin that merges dessert with digestif.

Here was another north woods gem: a convivial bar dripping with ephemera — beer steins, meerschaum pipes, more taxidermy — and, beyond that, a bustling dining room. From a brick-lined charcoal hearth built into the room’s far wall emerged gorgeously seared steaks, lobster tails and skewered shrimp, all whisked to the table on little charcoal braziers that kept the food sizzling.

Our ice cream drinks — a brandy Alexander for me and a grasshopper for Michele — came in coupe glasses and were thicker than milkshakes. While we nursed them, I chatted with the garrulous hostess, Anissa Widule. She was the daughter of the owner, David Widule, whose own father, Louis Widule, bought the building with a handshake in 1955.

Among fans of supper clubs, there’s a palpable sense of urgency in keeping them alive: a Milwaukee videographer recently made a film about them that’s been showing on public television all over the Midwest, and in Madison a handful of restaurateurs are breathing new life into the genre. Crandall’s, an old restaurant near the Capitol, was reborn a few years ago as the Tornado Steakhouse, complete with a period-perfect 1940s-era lounge and a cocktail list that includes a turbo-charged old-fashioned — the supper club cocktail par excellence — made with Cognac.

More recently, Tami Lax, the former chef de cuisine at Madison’s farm-to-table temple L’Etoile, opened a restaurant called, aptly enough, the Old-Fashioned. On the city’s central square, it is an unabashed homage to the Wisconsin supper club, with a 50-strong draught beer list — almost all Wisconsin brews — and a menu featuring locally sourced meats, cheeses and fish, as well as a choice of two or three “lazy susan” appetizer platters that hark back to the crudité-and-cheese trays of yore.

“I was in panic mode,” Ms. Lax told me when Michele and I stopped by the Old-Fashioned on our way back to Chicago. “So many of my favorite supper clubs were closing, or they were going downhill, buying all their ingredients off the food-service truck.”

At 4 p.m. on a Sunday the place was packed wall-to-wall with college students, young families, artsy hipsters, grandparents, professorial types and others. “I didn’t expect all this for a minute,” Ms. Lax said of the crowds, which have made for famously long waits. “I was just obeying the rule ‘Do what you know.’ ”

IF YOU GO

The towns of Rhinelander and Minocqua are both good bases from which to experience north-central Wisconsin and its supper clubs. Most supper clubs in northern Wisconsin are open year-round, but it’s still a good idea to call ahead and check during winter.

The Old-Fashioned, 23 North Pinckney Street, Madison; (608) 310-4545; theoldfashioned.com. Sandwiches start at $7.95; entrees at $9.95.
879 2011-11-27 Broadcast on the , spawned three independent reports into purebred breeding, each finding that some modern breeding practices — including inbreeding and breeding for “extreme traits,” like the massive and short-faced head of the bulldog — are detrimental to the health and welfare of dogs. Bulldogs were noted in all three reports as a breed in need of an intervention, with one going so far as to question whether it is ethically defensible to continue breeding them at all.

“There is little doubt that the anatomy of the English bulldog has considerable capacity to cause suffering,” Dr. Nicola Rooney and Dr. David Sargan concluded in one of the reports, “Pedigree Dog Breeding in the U.K.: A Major Welfare Concern?” “The breed is noted to have locomotion difficulties, breathing problems, an inability to mate or give birth without assistance. . . . Many would question whether the breed’s quality of life is so compromised that its breeding should be banned.”

In the , some veterinarians, breeders and animal-welfare experts are beginning to wonder the same thing. Last spring, the Humane Society organized its first conference on the topic of purebred-dog health and welfare. The society’s chief executive, Wayne Pacelle, told me the conference signaled the beginning of a new era for his organization, which until recently has been focused on what he calls “more obvious” forms of animal cruelty. “Inbreeding and other reckless breeding practices may not be as bloody as dogfighting or as painful to look at as puppy mills, but they may ultimately cause even more harm to the well-being of dogs,” he said.

Though a number of breeds were discussed at the conference (including the Cavalier King Charles spaniel, which is beset with severe heart and neurological diseases), the bulldog stole the show. “It is the most extreme example of genetic manipulation in the dog-breeding world that results in congenital and hereditary problems,” Pacelle said.

Brenda Bonnett, a consulting veterinary epidemiologist and a speaker at the conference, outlined the results of her study of Swedish dog- data from 1995 to 2006. She told conference attendees that bulldogs are significantly more likely than other dogs to suffer from a wide range of health issues, including ear and eye problems, skin infections, respiratory issues, immunological and neurological problems and locomotor challenges. (Statistics released in 2010 by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals revealed that bulldogs have the highest rate of hip dysplasia of any breed.)

A few months after the Humane Society conference, The Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published a study of breed-related causes of death in American dogs. Researchers found that bulldogs are the most likely to die from respiratory illness and the second-most likely to die from congenital disease.

Though there is no recent comprehensive study in this country comparing the life spans of different breeds, a 2010 British study published in The Journal of Small Practice reported that the typical bulldog lives only slightly longer than six years. “The bulldog is unique for the sheer breadth of its health problems,” says Brian Adams, formerly the head of media-relations at M.S.P.C.A.-Angell Animal Medical Center in . “A typical breed will have one or two common problem areas. The bulldog has so many. When I first started working at Angell, the joke was that these dogs are a $5,000 check just waiting to happen. But the joke gets old fast, because many of these dogs are suffering.”

A few months before my trip to Georgia, the British Kennel Club announced that it was revising the bulldog standard (a written template for the look and temperament of a breed) in an effort to make bulldogs sleeker and healthier. The new bulldog standard in calls for a “relatively” short face, a slightly smaller head and less-pronounced facial wrinkling.

But the Bulldog Club of America (B.C.A.), which owns the copyright to the American standard, says it has no plans to follow suit. The American standard still calls for the breed to have a “massive, short-faced head,” a “heavy, thick-set, low-swung body,” a “very short” face and muzzle and a “massive” and “undershot” jaw.

A spokeswoman for the American Kennel Club told me that it won’t pressure the Bulldog Club of America to reconsider its decision. That may be because, despite their health problems, bulldogs have skyrocketed up the A.K.C.’s most popular breed list, from No. 41 in 1973 to No. 6 in 2010, one spot behind golden retrievers. (Bulldogs are the most popular breed in .) The breed is a rare bit of good news for the A.K.C., which is suffering a long-term decline in registrations.

When I visited Sonny Seiler in Georgia, he took partial for the breed’s increased popularity. “The more people hear about Uga and see him on TV, the more people want a bulldog,” he said. Though Seiler conceded that bulldogs aren’t for everybody (“They are high-maintenance animals with health problems,” he said), he dismissed any efforts to change the distinctive look of the breed. “Change this dog too much, and it won’t look like a bulldog anymore,” he told me on the sideline during the game against South Carolina. “Besides, Uga gets the best veterinary care, and we do everything to keep him safe. These dogs have a good life.”

Maybe so, but Uga VII didn’t appear to relish his mascot duties. Unlike his father, Uga VI, who was loud and boisterous and enjoyed chasing after the school’s costumed bulldog mascot, Hairy Dawg, Uga VII seemed most comfortable in the back corner of his doghouse — or, better yet, outside the stadium entirely. A few minutes before halftime, Seiler’s adult son, Charles, led the dog off the field by a leash to a waiting cart. Uga VII hopped on, and a young woman drove us out the stadium’s back service entrance, up a hill, around some bends to an unspectacular patch of grass that doubles as the dog’s game-day bathroom. When the cart came to a stop, Uga VII bounded off it and spent the next few minutes happily sniffing the grass, urinating on a tree and defecating behind a bush.

When the dog was done, Charles ordered us all back on the cart. “All right, let’s go,” he said, and before I knew it, we were speeding back toward Sanford Stadium, Uga VII’s droppings (Charles didn’t pick up after him) a reminder to all that the world’s most famous mascot was here — and that celebrity dogs, like their human counterparts, get to play by different rules.

But Uga VII’s celebrity life would be short-lived. Six months later, while lounging at home, he died of . He was 4 years old.

This fall I went to meet Sandra Sawchuk, the chief of primary-care services at the School of Veterinary Medicine. Sawchuk is the rare veterinarian who owns a bulldog. “I should know better, but I’m a sucker for this breed,” she told me. “I’m also a vet, so I feel I can handle any problems that come up. But if anyone else tells me they want a bulldog, my immediate response is, ‘No, you don’t.’ ”

On the day of my visit, Sawchuk’s two bulldogs — Bulldozer, an 8-year-old male, and Vanna WhiteTrash, a 7-year-old female — were alternately sleeping and meandering around one of the veterinary clinic’s indoor dog runs. I had wondered what kind of person names her pet Vanna WhiteTrash. But then I met the dog. She is overweight, arthritic and missing part of her left jaw, a result of an operation to remove a . She also has an inverted screw tail that needs daily cleaning, a bald spot and eye issues. (One canine ophthalmologist told me that “bulldogs help keep me in business.”)

Of the four bulldogs Sawchuk has owned during the last decade, only Bulldozer has been in good health. Sawchuk and other vets say that it is possible to breed a healthy bulldog (“Bulldozer is proof of that,” she said), but she tells any new bulldog owner to get pet . On the day of my visit to the clinic, I met two bulldog owners who were grateful they’d purchased insurance, including a young woman named Sherri Pickett, whose 14-month-old bulldog, Opie, had already been treated for , , cherry eye and hip dysplasia. “I paid $2,500 for him from a reputable breeder,” she told me, adding that Opie’s vet bills have totaled more than $8,000. “I should really have a punch card,” she said.

I asked Sawchuk what attracted her to a breed with so many health issues. She told me the same thing I heard from other bulldog lovers. “They have goofy and lovable personalities that are incredibly endearing,” she said. But she took it a step further, arguing that the breed brings out a particularly strong parenting instinct in many people. “Even as adults, bulldogs look almost infantile — like plump little babies,” she told me in a hospital waiting room as Vanna WhiteTrash rolled on her back offering her belly. “Their flattened faces definitely make them look more human, and I think people probably respond to that in ways they aren’t aware of.”

That echoed something I heard from James Serpell, the director of the Center for the Interaction of Animals and Society at the . Serpell says that our human tendency toward anthropomorphic selection — which he defines as “selection in favor of physical and behavioral traits that facilitate the attribution of human mental states to animals” — is partly responsible for the modern bulldog’s predicament. He argues that we’ve bred dogs like the bulldog (and other short-faced “brachycephalic” breeds, including the pug and the French bulldog) to play up the cute effect.

“We have, to some extent, accentuated physical characteristics of the breed to make it look more human, although essentially more like caricatures of humans, and specifically of children,” he told me. “We’ve bred bulldogs for their flat face, big eyes, huge mouth in relation to head size and huge smiling face.” (Advertisers and animators have long recognized that giving an animal big eyes and a big head is a surefire way to endear it to humans. When created Bambi, the studio wanted the character to be an accurate depiction of a deer. But when the original Bambi sketches were deemed not “cute” enough, Disney shortened Bambi’s muzzle and made his head and eyes bigger.)

In an essay in the anthology “Thinking With Animals: New Perspectives on Anthropomorphism,” Serpell wrote that “if bulldogs were the product of genetic engineering by agripharmaceutical corporations, there would be protest demonstrations throughout the Western world, and rightly so. But because they have been generated by anthropomorphic selection, their handicaps are not only overlooked but even, in some quarters, applauded.”

Serpell told me that those handicaps can be easily masked by an outgoing, playful personality. “Bulldog breeders will insist that their dogs are happy and have a very good life,” Serpell said. “But a dog can love its owner and be happy at times, but that doesn’t mean his life isn’t needlessly compromised. In many ways, dogs are their own worst enemy. They don’t complain. They just kind of plod along, trying to make the best of things. That’s how I see many bulldogs. They are severely handicapped because of what we have done to them, but they still have these amazing personalities that shine through despite it all.”

When I visited the Angell Animal Medical Center in Boston, Dr. William Rosenblad, a canine-tooth expert, pulled up a picture of a bulldog skull — with its severely undershot jaw — on his computer screen. Then he shook his head.

“We’ve shortened the face of this breed so much,” he explained, “that there’s just not enough space for everything to fit. The tongue, the palate, it’s all compressed. The teeth often look like they’ve been thrown in there. They have little tiny nostrils. The end result of all the compression is that many bulldogs can barely breathe.”

Dr. , an assistant professor of and oral surgery at Ryan Veterinary Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, says the human equivalent to breathing the way some bulldogs do “would be if we walked around with our mouth or nose closed and breathed through a straw.” Lewis says that bulldogs are synonymous with brachycephalic airway syndrome, which comprises a series of respiratory abnormalities affecting the throat, nose and mouth. (Other breeds with high rates of B.A.S. include the pug, the Pekingese and the Boston terrier.)

Dogs cool themselves by breathing, so breeds like the bulldog overheat easily. That can make exercising, as well as sitting out in the sun for prolonged periods, dangerous. Air travel is especially risky. More bulldogs have died in flight than any other breed, and some airlines refuse to transport brachycephalic breeds. “Bulldogs clearly would benefit from more snout,” Lewis says.

Even something as basic as eating is complicated by the bulldog’s unusual physique. When I visited the home of Chris and Toddie Getman, owners of the 4-year-old bulldog mascot, Handsome Dan, Toddie stood close watch as the dog noisily scarfed down his dinner, kibbles falling out of his mouth and onto the floor. “When he eats, I have to be ready to burp him, because sometimes he’ll take in too much food and air and throw up,” she said. That could lead to aspiration pneumonia, a serious condition in which vomit — or particles of food — are inhaled back into the dog’s airway. To combat this, the dog-food manufacturer Canin has developed a special bulldog formula with wave-shaped kibbles (they look like Fritos) that make it easier for bulldogs to grasp and chew. The food also boasts “highly digestible proteins,” because bulldogs are the most relentless farters in the canine world.

Nick Trout, a surgical specialist at Angell, told me during my visit that complicating the bulldog’s breathing-related problems is the “state of denial” of some bulldog owners. Trout recounted how he recently treated a bulldog that needed surgery on its elongated soft palate, a common condition for the breed in which the soft tissue at the back of the throat blocks the dog’s airways. “The owner didn’t seem to realize that his dog’s heavy, labored breathing and was a sign that something was seriously wrong,” Trout said.

Though there are surgical options to correct some of the breed’s respiratory abnormalities, any operation is complicated by the fact that when a bulldog is under , the tissue and muscles in the back of the throat relax and block the dog’s airways. “With bulldogs that barely move enough air when they’re awake, anesthesia can be dangerous,” said Dr. Lisa Moses, Angell’s director of pain-medicine service. Moses added that unlike other breeds, bulldogs don’t try to spit out the breathing tube after waking up from surgery. “Some look around, happy as can be,” she said. “It’s almost like they’re saying, ‘Finally, I can breathe!’ ”

There is perhaps no dog that seems more out of place at the than the bulldog. While other breeds practically prance across the show ring, heads held high in a seemingly conscious display of their rarefied status, the waddling bulldog serves as a kind of unintentional comic relief.

The last time a bulldog won best in show at Westminster was 1955, and it has been nearly 30 years since a bulldog made it out of the group competition, which pits it against other nonsporting yet decidedly higher-brow breeds — including what may be the bulldog’s aesthetic opposite, the poodle.

Last year’s best-of-breed bulldog winner was a relative newcomer — a 2-year-old, 57-pound white bulldog named Brix — who took the top honor despite nearly falling off a ramp after being inspected by a judge in the show ring. Brix’s victory wasn’t a total surprise; his handler told me the dog was “on a roll” after winning two bulldog-only shows the weekend before Westminster. I attended the latter of the two, which was sponsored by the Bulldog Club of America and held in the main ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel in Edison, N.J.

It was my first time at a bulldog show, and I had a hard time differentiating the champion dogs from the inexperienced newcomers — or the hopelessly outmatched. Some of the more than 60 bulldogs in attendance appeared to move around the show ring better than others, which several show breeders confirmed to me was something that most judges value. (The bulldog standard in America calls for a bulldog’s gait to be “unrestrained, free and vigorous” but concedes that the breed’s “style and carriage are peculiar.”) While I discounted several dogs for appearing overweight, the judge chose one of the larger bulldogs (Brix) as her winner and told me after the competition that she likes bulldogs to be “big and sturdy.”

What was clear to me while watching these bulldogs compete was that none could have succeeded at the breed’s original purpose. Bulldogs get their name from their role in bull-baiting, arguably the most popular sport of the Elizabethan era. Though the genetic origin of the bulldog is debated, most believe that bull-baiting dogs of that era were descended from a mastiff-type dog. Fighting bulldogs were leaner and higher off the ground than bulldogs today, and their muzzles were longer. They had smaller heads, fewer facial rolls and a long tail. As a respected bulldog breeder conceded to me at the B.C.A. show, “Bulldogs today are not even a figment of what they used to be.”

During a bull-bait, the bull would try to stave off attacks from one or more dogs, who hurled themselves at the animal in an attempt to latch onto its tender nose. When the sport was banned in England in 1835, the viciousness that had served the bulldog so well became a liability. In his 1845 book the veterinarian William Youatt dismissed the bulldog in much the way many describe modern pit bulls: he wrote that the breed was “scarcely capable of any education” and “fitted for nothing but ferocity and combat.”

The bulldog might have disappeared into obscurity had 19th-century Victorian England not gone dog crazy. By the mid-1800s, there were more than 1.3 million dogs registered in England. For the upper-middle class, owning a mixed breed was not an option. “Nobody who is anybody can afford to be followed about by a mongrel dog,” one dog publication claimed at the time.

It is within this context that the bulldog underwent a physical, temperamental and public-relations transformation. In the second half of the 19th century, the famed British dog dealer Bill George, who had worked at a kennel that bred dogs for bull-baiting, turned his attention to breeding and promoting the bulldog as a pleasant household pet and stylish purebred companion. Just how breeders like succeeded in changing the look and temperament of the bulldog is a debated question. Many believe that the breed was crossed with the pug, creating a friendlier and more compact dog with a brachycephalic skull.

By the late 1800s, the bulldog’s changing physique piqued the interest of many observers — including . In his book “The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication,” Darwin wrote: “Some of the peculiarities characteristic of the several breeds of the dog have probably arisen suddenly, and, though strictly inherited, may be called monstrosities; for instance, the shape of the head and the under-hanging jaw in the bulldog. . . . A peculiarity suddenly arising, and therefore in one sense deserving to be called a monstrosity, may however be increased and fixed by man’s selection.”

Many in England and the United States couldn’t get enough of the breed. According to A.K.C. registration statistics, the bulldog was the fifth-most popular dog in America between 1910 and 1920. In 1922, the Marine Corps took on the bulldog as its mascot. (A number of universities soon followed suit, and some — including Georgia, Yale (which made the bulldog its mascot in 1889), Butler and Georgetown — still have live bulldog mascots that attend sporting and cultural events on campus.) Though the second bulldog to hold the Marine Corps mascot honor died of heat exhaustion, the breed was still hailed as strong and heroic. “Tough, muscular, aggressive, fearless and often arrogant,” Marion F. Sturkey wrote in “Warrior Culture of the ,” bulldogs “are the ultimate canine warriors.”

Today bulldogs make for a paradoxical symbol of strength and valor. Diane Judy, a former bulldog breeder from who bred the current Yale mascot, told me before her death last year that she “adores” bulldogs but no longer felt comfortable breeding them. “They aren’t athletic or especially healthy,” she said. “Most can’t have sex without help — they’re too short and stocky. Most can’t give birth on their own — their heads are too big. A breed that has trouble doing those two things is, by definition, in trouble.”

But at the B.C.A. show in , the breeders I spoke to denied that anything seriously ails the breed. “People who don’t know what they’re talking about like to claim that bulldogs aren’t healthy, but it’s just not true,” said Cody Sickle, a respected bulldog breeder whose dogs have won best of breed at Westminster 12 times.

In an e-mail sent to me by the B.C.A., the organization rejected the idea that the breed is in trouble. “Bulldogs today look good, have excellent temperament and are healthier than in years past as a result of good breeding practices.” During a conference call, B.C.A. representatives insisted that bulldogs are healthier in this country than in England, where the bulldog standard was changed. “As animal lovers, we obviously would not continue perpetuating suffering dogs,” Elizabeth Hugo Milam, a bulldog breeder who was formerly the head of the B.C.A.’s health committee, told me. She added that the B.C.A. “takes any potential health problems seriously,” pointing to the organization’s Charitable Health Fund, which has donated more than $39,000 to the A.K.C. Canine Health Foundation, as well as to their collaboration with the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals to measure the diameters of tracheae in bulldogs in order to combat bracycephalic airway syndrome.

Patrick Bateson, the author of one of the independent reports in , told me that most breeders are well meaning — and that many are good at what they do. But he is shocked by the inability of some to look critically at their own breed. “They are more than happy to point out problems with other breeds, but many are incapable of seeing anything wrong with theirs,” he told me. “It’s almost like they are blinded by their love for their dogs.”

At the B.C.A. show and at Westminster, just about every breeder described a lifelong love affair with bulldogs. Many grew up with the breed, while those who hadn’t wished they had and usually purchased a bulldog as soon as they could. When asked what they liked most about bulldogs, the breeders I spoke to usually gushed about the breed’s loving, playful temperament.

“This dog is not anything like the bull-baiting dogs, which were really mean,” Connie Chambers, who has been breeding bulldogs for more than 40 years, told me at the B.C.A. show. “Nobody would want those dogs today.”

“But couldn’t breeders have bred out the viciousness of bull-baiting dogs without also drastically changing the physique of the breed?” I asked.

“The physique of bulldogs today is perfect,” she said.

I asked Chambers what she liked most about the look of a bulldog. “I like the short face,” she said. “Their cute, fat faces and bodies.”

“But what if the bulldog’s cute, short face isn’t good for its health?” I asked.

“If you change the look of this dog, it’s not going to look like a bulldog,” she countered.

I heard that again and again from bulldog breeders. At Westminster, a breeder from even conceded that bulldogs would “probably be healthier” with a longer snout.

“So why not breed them that way?” I asked.

“Because if you elongate the face, it becomes a different dog,” he said. “It won’t look like a bulldog anymore.”

On the rare occasions that bulldog breeders did admit to serious health problems with their breed, they blamed unscrupulous breeders motivated by the growing popularity of bulldogs. “There are way too many people out there breeding bulldogs who don’t know what they’re doing and are trying to get rich off these dogs,” Sickle told me. “No responsible show breeders I know are happy that this breed is so in fashion right now. Irresponsible breeders are producing unhealthy dogs.”

That is undeniably true, but there remains an unwillingness on the part of Sickle and other bulldog show breeders to acknowledge what I heard from veterinarians across the country. “The main problem with this breed is its basic, fundamental design,” said Nancy Laste, a veterinary cardiologist who helped care for Uga V and VI when she was an intern at the University of Georgia in the early ’90s. “It’s a defective and unworkable design.”

Can the bulldog be redesigned? Last spring, I met Mike Sears, a longtime B.C.A. member who left the organization after the two bulldogs he purchased from respected show breeders had extensive health problems and died (one at 5, the other at 9). Not wanting to “bury a third bulldog in the backyard,” Sears said he asked his vet for advice. His vet told him to look into a breed called the Old English bulldogge. “He said it was closer to what bulldogs used to look like and that they are more athletic and generally healthier than English bulldogs,” Sears recalled.

Sears did some research and eventually reached out to David Leavitt, who began developing the Old English bulldogge breed in 1971. Using a breeding scheme developed for cattle, Leavitt crossed bulldogs with pit bull terriers, bull mastiffs and American bulldogs. (American bulldogs are strong, well-built dogs commonly mistaken for pit bulls.) The result, Leavitt told me, was an athletic breed that looks similar to the bulldogs of 1820 but also has a friendly temperament. Leavitt now calls his breed the Leavitt bulldog.

At his house in , Sears introduced me to Ares, his 5-month-old Leavitt bulldog, a muscular, brindle-colored dog with large open nostrils and a medium-length snout. As Sears and I sat on the family’s front porch, Ares chased Frisbees and footballs on the lawn.

“If this was an English bulldog, he’d be asleep by now,” Sears told me with a chuckle. “This dog can swim — our previous bulldogs would get in the water and basically sink. Our old dogs would pant if they ran for a couple of minutes. This guy can go for hours. When our last bulldog died, some of our bulldog friends were like, ‘You sure you don’t want another?’ We said, ‘No, I think we’re going to break from the pack here a little.’ ”

The A.K.C. doesn’t recognize the Leavitt or the Old English bulldogge as breeds, and the B.C.A. dismisses them as “poor attempts by irresponsible breeders at trying to recreate a bull-baiting dog.” When I relayed the B.C.A.’s position to Sears, he shook his head. “They are in denial at just how serious the problems are with bulldogs,” he said. “They can’t see the forest through the trees. The bulldog is just not a very healthy dog, and I don’t think that will change if we just keep breeding them with other bulldogs.”

Crossbreeding is not a panacea, but Bateson and Sargan — the authors of two of the three independent dog-breeding reports in England — told me that it would most likely be needed to save the bulldog. Sargan made reference to the Dalmatian, which was beset with until it was crossbred with a single pointer and then backcrossed to Dalmatians.

But Dr. Federico Calboli, the co-author of a 2008 study in the about the inbreeding of purebred dogs, says the modern bulldog is a very specific — and unfortunate — case. “Many, if not most of the bulldog’s health problems are not due to inbreeding but are due to the shape that the dogs are bred,” he said. “Bulldogs could be as outbred as mongrel dogs in the streets of , but if they keep that phenotype, they are not going very far.”

Many critics of bulldog breeding practices say that some of the bulldog’s health problems could be alleviated simply by changing the breed standard. Jemima Harrison, the director of “Pedigree Dogs Exposed,” told me it is possible to produce a healthier phenotype in most breeds pretty quickly (in three to four generations), because there is always some variation within a breed — for example, bulldogs with slightly longer muzzles or fewer . “If breeders were willing to breed to dogs with fewer exaggerated characteristics and judges in the show ring began rewarding those dogs, change could happen,” she said. “But the B.C.A. hasn’t shown leadership on this issue, and the A.K.C. has its head in the sand and is desperately hoping that the attention that purebred health problems have received in England doesn’t translate to America.” (The A.K.C. refutes this. “The American Kennel Club and its breed clubs have worked diligently to improve the health of dogs for decades in our country,” Lisa Peterson, an A.K.C. spokeswoman, said. Peterson also said the A.K.C. trusts the B.C.A. to know “what is best for the breed.”)

While the British Kennel Club, in addition to changing its breed standards, has banned the registration of puppies from closely related parents, the A.K.C. has refused to follow suit. Wayne Pacelle, the Humane Society C.E.O., told me that if the A.K.C. and breed clubs won’t act, it’s inevitable that animal welfare groups will push for legal standards addressing inbreeding and the physical soundness and genetic health of dogs. “Breeding certainly has a place in the world of dogs, but this mania about achieving what’s considered a ‘perfect’ or desirable outward appearance rather than focusing on the physical soundness of the animal is one of the biggest dog-welfare problems in this country,” he said. “And the emotional and financial cost of these sick dogs to their owners is enormous.”

Pacelle stressed the importance of educating consumers about purebred health problems. “A lot of people buy a breed like the bulldog without realizing just how compromised it is,” he said. “They also have no idea how to differentiate a ‘responsible’ breeder from an irresponsible one.”

I heard the same thing from Laurette Richin of the Bulldog Rescue. When she opened the doors to her rescue organization in 1999, Richin had 13 bulldogs that needed homes. Last year, she had 218. “This breed is so popular right now, and people fall in love with the dog’s face and buy it on impulse without doing their homework,” she said. “Then, when the dog ends up being too ‘needy’ or too expensive, people give them up.”

I returned to the University of Georgia last November to meet the school’s new mascot, Uga VIII (nicknamed Big Bad Bruce). It had been nearly a year since the death of Uga VII. Like each of his predecessors, he was formally laid to rest in a mausoleum in the southwest corner of Sanford Stadium.

Uga VII’s brother, Russ, served as a temporary mascot while Sonny Seiler decided on a replacement. Seiler is famously secretive about the Uga family line and doesn’t divulge any information about his breeder. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution compared the process of selecting a new Uga — which is determined by “male-preference genealogy and legitimate birth” — to “succession for the British throne.”

Not everyone was happy that Seiler planned to choose another live bulldog as the school’s mascot. wrote a letter to Georgia’s athletic director asking him to use an “animatronic dog” or to rely solely on the school’s costumed bulldog mascot. “It is time for the university to put an end to the cycle of suffering endured by dogs who are brought into the world solely to represent the school’s ‘brand,’ ” Kristie Phelps, of PETA, said at the time.

Seiler ignored the plea and eventually selected Uga VIII, an 11-month-old, 55-pound all-white bulldog, the grandson of Uga VI. “This is a damn good dog,” Seiler told me when I visited. “He’s healthy, and he has all the attributes we look for in a Georgia mascot.”

He was certainly more playful than his predecessor. He appeared to relish the attention of the Georgia cheerleaders, but he had yet to perfect a critical element of a dog mascot’s game-day responsibilities — the speedy halftime bathroom break. “He doesn’t know how to poop on command yet,” Charles Seiler told me as we waited — and waited — for Uga VIII to do his business on the same patch of grass I’d watched his predecessor fertilize the previous year.

Just as the dog began to squat, a couple in their early 20s walked by holding hands. “Is that the real Uga?” the young woman asked me. I nodded. “Oh, my God, we have to take a picture,” she squealed, fumbling through her purse for her cellphone. Her boyfriend rolled his eyes, saying he didn’t really want to watch the dog defecate.

“I totally want to!” she insisted, snapping several dozen pictures as her boyfriend looked down at his shoes. When she was done, she put her phone back in her purse and hopped up and down with excitement. “I love you Uga,” she said as she scampered off to catch up to her boyfriend, who had shuffled away. “I’ll see you next year for homecoming!”

But Uga VIII wouldn’t last that long. Soon after my visit, the 2-year-old bulldog came down with lymphoma. A month later, he died. When I spoke with Sonny Seiler midway through this season, he said the search was on for Uga IX.
880 2011-11-27 McCLURE--Douglas Bryan. Douglas Bryan McClure Pioneer in the Art of Incentive Negotiation for U.S. Corporations, dies at 63. Bryan McClure of Figure Eight Island, NC, the consummate family man, prominent civic leader, accomplished businessman, and...
881 2011-11-27 By air, sea and auto, travelers have new ways to reach and roam the Caribbean this season.     This month American Airlines began nonstop flights to Antigua from Kennedy Airport. Also this month JetBlue began departures to La Romana in the Dominic...
882 2011-11-27 To the Sports Editor:     Re ''Paterno Passes On Home to His Wife for $1,'' Nov. 16: Joe and Sue Paterno, as joint owners of the home in which they live, could not be forced to turn over the house as an asset unless they both were the subject of a...
883 2011-11-27 BINSTOCK--Dr. Robert H.,PHD, husband of Martha (nee Burns). Father of Jennifer Binstock. Brother and uncle. Services in Cleveland, Ohio on Sunday, November 27th....
884 2011-11-27 WRIGHTSON--Patricia Bowne, of Longboat Key, FL passed away on November 19, 2011. Patty was born on December 8, 1927 in Utica, NY to Thomas B. Bowne and Edith Clarke. She was the widow of George D. Wrightson, who died in 2004. Her first husband, Da...
885 2011-11-28 Is having a generous impulse enough, or do you have to follow through?...
886 2011-11-28 Is having a generous impulse enough, or do you have to follow through?...
887 2011-11-28 Among the year’s many samples, several beauty products rise above the rest....
888 2011-11-28 FreeWarranty.com, a new shopping portal on the Web, says it will double the original manufacturer's warranty -- up to a year -- on all purchases....
889 2011-11-28 FreeWarranty.com, a new shopping portal on the Web, says it will double the original manufacturer's warranty -- up to a year -- on all purchases....
890 2011-11-28 But the bankers are OK....
891 2011-11-28 But the bankers are OK....
892 2011-11-28 Damian Claassens joined Profero New York, part of Profero, as head of creative. He succeeds Scott Clark, who moved to Los Angeles, the agency said, for personal reasons. Mr. Claassens had been leading creative work on the LG account at Publicis Modem, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, signed Natasha Bedingfield to sing “Shake Up Christmas” in the holiday 2011 campaign for its flagship Coca-Cola brand. The initial “Shake Up Christmas” campaign, last year, featured the band Train; this year’s campaign will again feature a snow globe in addition to Santa Claus and a caravan of Coke trucks. Ms. Bedingfield will sing the song in six languages: English, Filipino, French, Spanish, Swahili and Ukrainian. The campaign, part of the “Open happiness” effort for Coke, includes commercials, digital ads and social media.

Covario, San Diego, was named Search Agency of the Year for 2011 by OMMA (online media, marketing and advertising) magazine, part of MediaPost Communications.

Amy Crouse joined JWT Atlanta, part of the JWT unit of WPP, as communications manager. She had been marketing manager and associate director for public relations at Moxie, Atlanta.

Efrim Dragovic joined the Mintz & Hoke Communications Group, Avon, Conn., as an account executive. He had been an account executive at the Ryan Partnership, Wilton, Conn.

Engauge, Columbus, Ohio, and We Marketing are forming a joint venture to create We Engauge, a social marketing agency based in Hong Kong with offices in Beijing and Shanghai. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Gulf States Toyota, Houston, which serves 154 dealers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas, divided its creative and media accounts and named two agencies to handle the assignments. Spending on the account, which had previously been handled by the Intermark Group, Birmingham, Ala., was estimated at $100 million. The creative account was awarded to MMB, Boston, and the media account was awarded to Zenith Media, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Courtenay Harry joined MEC North America, New York, as senior partner and planning director. She succeeds Mia Cosgrove, who left to join Horizon Media as vice president and associate managing director. Ms. Harry had been at the Leap Media Group, which she helped found. MEC North America is part of the MEC unit of GroupM, which is owned by WPP.

Hyundai Motor America, part of the Hyundai Motor Company, agreed to become the official vehicle partner of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, also called the Recording Academy. Financial terms were not disclosed. The three-year deal includes the 2012 Hyundai Veloster, a three-door coupe aimed at consumers in their 20s and 30s; the Grammy Awards; the Grammy Nominations Show, on CBS on Wednesday; and music initiatives like the Re:Generation Music Project, centered on a documentary, “Re:Generation,” that will be focused on five D.J.’s.

Kandia Dulce, a Romanian candy company, will be honored with the Eurobest Advertiser of the Year Award for 2011 at the annual Eurobest Advertising Festival. The company is being recognized for a campaign called “American Rom,” created by the Bucharest office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The campaign was intended to stimulate conversation and publicity about a venerable brand, the Rom chocolate bar, to help revitalize it after it lost popularity among younger consumers. The campaign announced that Rom’s wrapper featured the Romanian flag was being replaced with an “American version.” After a national outcry, the brand’s trade dress reverted to the original Romanian version and Kandia Dulce disclosed the purpose of the campaign.

Sarah Kramer, executive vice president and global managing director for the global Procter & Gamble account at the Starcom MediaVest Group, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, was promoted to president for client services at the MediaVest unit of Starcom MediaVest. Ms. Kramer, who will continue to handle her Procter duties, succeeds Greg Warren, who left to join Wal-Mart Stores as vice president for creative.

Audrey Ling joined the Acquity Group, New York, as senior vice president. She had been vice president for planning and analysis at BlackRock, New York.

Marnier Lapostolle, part of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, selected the WOO, Culver City, Calif., and New York, formerly known as the Woo Agency, as the first digital agency for Grand Marnier liqueur. Billings were not disclosed.

Alyssa Meritt joined Cambridge BioMarketing, Cambridge, Mass., as a management supervisor. She had been an account director at One-to-One Interactive, Boston.

REVShare hired three account executives. Gregg Brinin will manage East Coast clients and be based in the New York office. Logan Connolly will be based in the headquarters in Temecula, Calif. And Stephen Hurd will be based in the Los Angeles office.

Fernando Romero joined DailyCandy, New York, in a post with expanded duties, vice president for advertising sales. He had most recently been managing director for national partnerships at Gilt City, part of the Gilt Groupe. DailyCandy is part of the entertainment and digital networks and integrated media division of NBCUniversal, which is owned by Comcast.

Saatchi & Saatchi X, Springdale, Ark., part of the Saatchi & Saatchi unit of the Publicis Groupe, was named shopper media agency of the year for 2011 by Media magazine, published by MediaPost Communications.

Siren Communications, Singapore, sold a majority ownership stake to Havas, which is renaming the agency Euro RSCG Siren. Financial terms were not disclosed.

Michele Skettino joined the New York office of TidalTV in a new post, director for communications. She had been a partner and director for marketing communications at MediaCom, part of the GroupM unit of WPP.

Wellmark, Des Moines, which does business as Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Iowa, selected Campbell Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its account. Billings for the assignment, which had been handled by various agencies on a project basis, were not disclosed.
893 2011-11-28 Benoit Denizet-Lewis discusses the tension between Uga and Handsome Dan, two bulldog mascots, and other issues raised by his cover story....
894 2011-11-28 Benoit Denizet-Lewis discusses the tension between Uga and Handsome Dan, two bulldog mascots, and other issues raised by his cover story....
895 2011-11-28 We read the retail coverage looking for trends in spending and ... the American way of shopping....
896 2011-11-28 We read the retail coverage looking for trends in spending and ... the American way of shopping....
897 2011-11-28 “The Devils,” based on real events that had inspired a play by John Whiting and a book by Aldous Huxley, tells the story of demonic possession at a French convent, complete with exorcism rituals and blasphemous orgies. Mr. Russell, who converted to Roman Catholicism in the 1950s, saw the film as an attack on corruption between the church and state.

Its American investors and the British censors called for cuts. The Catholic Church condemned the movie when it was screened at the Venice Film Festival. An edited version was banned by several local authorities in Britain; it was further trimmed in the United States to avoid an X rating.

Despite his affinity for classical music, Mr. Russell gravitated toward the flashy British rock scene of the day. The connection was made explicit with “Tommy” (1975), his frenzied film version of the Who’s rock opera and concept album. He combined classical and rock music in the follow-up, “Lisztomania” (1975), which starred the Who’s lead singer, Roger Daltrey, as Franz Liszt and featured a cameo by Ringo Starr as the pope.

Critics tended to welcome each new Ken Russell film as target practice. Reviewing “The Devils” in The New York Times, Vincent Canby called Mr. Russell “a hobbyist determined to reproduce ‘The Last Supper’ in bottle tops.” Pauline Kael called him a “shrill, screaming gossip.”

Mr. Russell was not above fighting back. Shortly after the release of “The Devils,” he appeared on live television with the British critic Alexander Walker, who had called the film “monstrously indecent.” Mr. Russell hit him on the head with a rolled-up newspaper.

But even his staunchest critics acknowledged that Mr. Russell had left his mark on film. The nascent music-video aesthetic of the 1980s can be traced to the slick surfaces, rapid montage and voracious pastiche of his films. (He lifted liberally from the likes of Fellini and Cocteau.)

He had a knack for casting ascendant stars (Vanessa Redgrave, Glenda Jackson), and he sought out talented collaborators. Two of his ’60s films were scored by the French composer Georges Delerue, and he hired the young Derek Jarman as a production designer on “The Devils.”

Even in the prime of his career Mr. Russell cycled between hits and flops. Time and again he bounced back from critical and commercial disasters like “Lisztomania” and “Valentino” (1977).

He ventured into the American studio system with “Altered States” (1980), a hallucinogenic science-fiction film starring William Hurt. In his autobiography, Mr. Russell revealed that he had been hired by Warner Brothers only after 26 other directors had passed on the project. He feuded with the screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky, who took his name off the project, but “Altered States” earned him some of his best reviews and has since developed a cult following.

Henry Kenneth Alfred Russell was born on July 3, 1927, in Southampton, England, the son of a shoe-store owner. He described his childhood as lonely. Many an afternoon was spent at the movies, alone or with his mother. As a teenager he attended nautical school, where by his account he won over the bullies by putting on amateur productions of Dorothy Lamour musicals. He served briefly in the Merchant Navy and the Royal Air Force, then moved to London, where he studied dance before turning to photography in his late 20s.

Mr. Russell’s work as a freelance photographer and filmmaker led in 1959 to a job at the BBC, where he made dozens of arts documentaries, most notably a 1962 piece on the composer Edward Elgar. It was unusual at the time for its use of re-enactments. His other subjects included the composers Prokofiev and Debussy, the dancer Isadora Duncan and the painter Henri Rousseau.

The fascination with genius, ambition and the creative process — and the project of making high culture accessible to a popular audience — continued in Mr. Russell’s later fictional features. Many of them take considerable liberties in exploring the lives and works of composers and artists: “The Music Lovers” (1970), about Tchaikovsky; “Savage Messiah” (1972), about the French sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska; “Mahler” (1974); and “Lisztomania,” which imagined Liszt as the original pop superstar.

Mr. Russell’s career never fully recovered from his 1984 flop, “Crimes of Passion,” although he managed one final provocation with “Whore” (1991). A drama about a Los Angeles prostitute, it was the last of his films to get a theatrical release in the United States, where it received an NC-17 rating and was released on video under the alternate title “If You Can’t Say It, Just See It.”

But even with his directing career in eclipse, Mr. Russell kept busy with films and documentaries for British television, occasional acting roles and self-financed low-budget features like “The Fall of the Louse of Usher,” a 2002 horror spoof literally shot in his backyard. He wrote several novels — including a few on the sex lives of famous composers (“Beethoven Confidential,” “Brahms Gets Laid”) — and made his Off Broadway directing debut in 2008 with the play “Mindgame,” starring Keith Carradine.

In Britain he remained a public gadfly into his 70s and 80s, appearing on television talk shows and writing a column for The Times of London. In 2007 he joined the cast of the reality TV series “Celebrity Big Brother” but left after getting into an argument with another house guest, Jade Goody.

Mr. Russell’s survivors include four sons, Alex, James, Xavier and Toby, and a daughter, Victoria, from his first marriage, to the costume designer Shirley Kingdon; a daughter, Molly, and a son, Rupert, from his second marriage, to the photographer Vivian Jolly; a son, Rex, from his third marriage, to the actress Hetty Baynes; and his wife, Lisi Tribble, an actress, whom he married in 2001.

In a column in The Times of London in 2008 about a critical biography of him by Joseph Lanza titled “Phallic Frenzy,” Mr. Russell reflected on his longtime status as a critical punching bag. “I believe in what I’m doing wholeheartedly, passionately, and what’s more, I simply go about my business,” he wrote. “I suppose such a thing can be annoying to some people.”
898 2011-11-28 “The Devils,” based on real events that had inspired a play by John Whiting and a book by Aldous Huxley, tells the story of demonic possession at a French convent, complete with exorcism rituals and blasphemous orgies. Mr. Russell, who converted to Roman Catholicism in the 1950s, saw the film as an attack on corruption between the church and state.

Its American investors and the British censors called for cuts. The Catholic Church condemned the movie when it was screened at the Venice Film Festival. An edited version was banned by several local authorities in Britain; it was further trimmed in the United States to avoid an X rating.

Despite his affinity for classical music, Mr. Russell gravitated toward the flashy British rock scene of the day. The connection was made explicit with “Tommy” (1975), his frenzied film version of the Who’s rock opera and concept album. He combined classical and rock music in the follow-up, “Lisztomania” (1975), which starred the Who’s lead singer, Roger Daltrey, as Franz Liszt and featured a cameo by Ringo Starr as the pope.

Critics tended to welcome each new Ken Russell film as target practice. Reviewing “The Devils” in The New York Times, Vincent Canby called Mr. Russell “a hobbyist determined to reproduce ‘The Last Supper’ in bottle tops.” Pauline Kael called him a “shrill, screaming gossip.”

Mr. Russell was not above fighting back. Shortly after the release of “The Devils,” he appeared on live television with the British critic Alexander Walker, who had called the film “monstrously indecent.” Mr. Russell hit him on the head with a rolled-up newspaper.

But even his staunchest critics acknowledged that Mr. Russell had left his mark on film. The nascent music-video aesthetic of the 1980s can be traced to the slick surfaces, rapid montage and voracious pastiche of his films. (He lifted liberally from the likes of Fellini and Cocteau.)

He had a knack for casting ascendant stars (Vanessa Redgrave, Glenda Jackson), and he sought out talented collaborators. Two of his ’60s films were scored by the French composer Georges Delerue, and he hired the young Derek Jarman as a production designer on “The Devils.”

Even in the prime of his career Mr. Russell cycled between hits and flops. Time and again he bounced back from critical and commercial disasters like “Lisztomania” and “Valentino” (1977).

He ventured into the American studio system with “Altered States” (1980), a hallucinogenic science-fiction film starring William Hurt. In his autobiography, Mr. Russell revealed that he had been hired by Warner Brothers only after 26 other directors had passed on the project. He feuded with the screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky, who took his name off the project, but “Altered States” earned him some of his best reviews and has since developed a cult following.

Henry Kenneth Alfred Russell was born on July 3, 1927, in Southampton, England, the son of a shoe-store owner. He described his childhood as lonely. Many an afternoon was spent at the movies, alone or with his mother. As a teenager he attended nautical school, where by his account he won over the bullies by putting on amateur productions of Dorothy Lamour musicals. He served briefly in the Merchant Navy and the Royal Air Force, then moved to London, where he studied dance before turning to photography in his late 20s.

Mr. Russell’s work as a freelance photographer and filmmaker led in 1959 to a job at the BBC, where he made dozens of arts documentaries, most notably a 1962 piece on the composer Edward Elgar. It was unusual at the time for its use of re-enactments. His other subjects included the composers Prokofiev and Debussy, the dancer Isadora Duncan and the painter Henri Rousseau.

The fascination with genius, ambition and the creative process — and the project of making high culture accessible to a popular audience — continued in Mr. Russell’s later fictional features. Many of them take considerable liberties in exploring the lives and works of composers and artists: “The Music Lovers” (1970), about Tchaikovsky; “Savage Messiah” (1972), about the French sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska; “Mahler” (1974); and “Lisztomania,” which imagined Liszt as the original pop superstar.

Mr. Russell’s career never fully recovered from his 1984 flop, “Crimes of Passion,” although he managed one final provocation with “Whore” (1991). A drama about a Los Angeles prostitute, it was the last of his films to get a theatrical release in the United States, where it received an NC-17 rating and was released on video under the alternate title “If You Can’t Say It, Just See It.”

But even with his directing career in eclipse, Mr. Russell kept busy with films and documentaries for British television, occasional acting roles and self-financed low-budget features like “The Fall of the Louse of Usher,” a 2002 horror spoof literally shot in his backyard. He wrote several novels — including a few on the sex lives of famous composers (“Beethoven Confidential,” “Brahms Gets Laid”) — and made his Off Broadway directing debut in 2008 with the play “Mindgame,” starring Keith Carradine.

In Britain he remained a public gadfly into his 70s and 80s, appearing on television talk shows and writing a column for The Times of London. In 2007 he joined the cast of the reality TV series “Celebrity Big Brother” but left after getting into an argument with another house guest, Jade Goody.

Mr. Russell’s survivors include four sons, Alex, James, Xavier and Toby, and a daughter, Victoria, from his first marriage, to the costume designer Shirley Kingdon; a daughter, Molly, and a son, Rupert, from his second marriage, to the photographer Vivian Jolly; a son, Rex, from his third marriage, to the actress Hetty Baynes; and his wife, Lisi Tribble, an actress, whom he married in 2001.

In a column in The Times of London in 2008 about a critical biography of him by Joseph Lanza titled “Phallic Frenzy,” Mr. Russell reflected on his longtime status as a critical punching bag. “I believe in what I’m doing wholeheartedly, passionately, and what’s more, I simply go about my business,” he wrote. “I suppose such a thing can be annoying to some people.”
899 2011-11-28 As Zynga, the maker of popular social games like FarmVille and CastleVille, moves toward a public stock offering, its business practices and its chief executive, Mark Pincus, are getting plenty of scrutiny. Evelyn M. Rusli writes in Monday’s Tim...
900 2011-11-28 As Zynga, the maker of popular social games like FarmVille and CastleVille, moves toward a public stock offering, its business practices and its chief executive, Mark Pincus, are getting plenty of scrutiny. Evelyn M. Rusli writes that the company'...
901 2011-11-28 Plus: Have you considered going after markets overseas?...
902 2011-11-28 Plus: Have you considered going after markets overseas?...
903 2011-11-28 “All of these indicate that inaction in dealing with climate change and delays would only expose human society and all living species to risk that could become serious,” Dr. Pachauri wrote in an e-mail. He said he was afraid the conference would “only focus on short-term political considerations.”

The Durban meeting is formally known as COP17, for the 17th conference of the parties to the United Nations convention on climate change.

Delegates in Durban will be addressing relatively small and, to many, arcane questions of process and finance. Negotiators, having entered the United Nations climate talks at Copenhagen two years ago with grand ambitions and having left with disillusion, are now defining expectations down and hoping to keep the process alive through modest steps.

Last year in Cancún, Mexico, delegates produced an agreement that set up a fund to help poor countries adapt to climate changes, created mechanisms for the transfer of clean-energy technology, provided compensation for the preservation of tropical forests and enshrined the emissions reductions promises that came out of the Copenhagen meeting.

Negotiators postponed until Durban the politically freighted question of whether to extend the frayed Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 agreement that requires most wealthy nations to trim their emissions while providing help to developing countries to pursue a cleaner energy path. Also still on the agenda are the structure of, and the sources of financing for, a climate adaptation and technology fund that is supposed to reach $100 billion a year by 2020.

One of the issues that is most contentious and least likely to be resolved involves the future of the Kyoto Protocol, which requires the major industrialized nations to meet targets on emissions reduction but imposes no mandates on developing countries, including emerging economic powers and sources of global greenhouse gas emissions like China, India, Brazil and South Africa.

The United States is not a party to the protocol, having refused to even consider ratifying it because of those asymmetrical obligations. Some major countries, including Canada, Japan and Russia, have said they will not agree to an extension of the protocol next year unless the unbalanced requirements of developing and developed countries are changed. That is similar to the United States’ position, which is that any successor treaty must apply equally to all major economies.

But the European Union, the major developing countries, and most African and Pacific island nations would like to see the Kyoto process extended as a prelude to a binding international agreement after 2020 to reduce emissions so as to keep the average global temperature from ever rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, or about 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above its current level.

Todd Stern, the chief American climate negotiator, said he was flexible as to the form such a future agreement would take and even the time frame for reaching it, though he expects it will be after 2020, once the various Kyoto and Cancún agreements have run their course. He said that all countries, including the United States, must take meaningful unilateral steps to control their carbon dioxide emissions. The obligations are greatest among the 20 or so largest economies, which are responsible for more than 80 percent of global carbon output.

“In reality, the most effective thing we can do to address climate change is for all relevant countries to act vigorously at home,” Mr. Stern said in an interview, noting that most countries have adopted emissions targets or national action plans that will be followed regardless of the status of the negotiations toward a binding future agreement.

“At the same time,” Mr. Stern added, “climate is a classic global commons problem, where each country needs confidence that others are acting, so international cooperation is important, and this then takes you to the core international issue: you can’t rationally address this problem at the international level unless you get all the major economies, developed and developing, acting in a common system.”

The United States has been criticized at these gatherings for years, in part because of its rejection of the Kyoto framework and in part because it has not adopted a comprehensive domestic program for reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions. President Obama has pledged to reduce American emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, but his preferred approach, a nationwide cap-and-trade system for carbon pollution, failed spectacularly in Congress in 2010. United States emissions are down about 6 percent over the past five years, largely because of the drop in industrial and electricity production caused by the recession.
904 2011-11-28 It’s early yet for a full accounting of the economic damage has done to itself with its radical new law.

Farmers can tally the cost of crops left to rot as workers flee. Governments can calculate the loss of revenues when taxpayers flee. It’s harder to measure the price of a ruined business reputation or the value of lost or productivity lost as Alabamians stand in line for hours to prove their citizenship in any transaction with the government. Or what the state will ultimately spend fighting off an onslaught of lawsuits, or training and deploying police officers in the widening immigrant dragnet, or paying the cost of diverting scarce resources away from fighting real crimes.

A growing number of Alabamians say the price will be too high, and there is compelling evidence that they are right. Alabama is already at the low end of states in employment and economic vitality. It has long struggled to lure good jobs and shed a history of racial intolerance.

That was turning around and many foreign manufacturers, including , and , have set up there. Its business-friendly reputation took a serious blow with the arrest in Tuscaloosa of a visiting Mercedes manager who was caught driving without his license and taken to jail as a potential illegal immigrant.

Sheldon Day, the mayor of Thomasville, has aggressively recruited foreign companies to his town, including a Chinese company — Golden Dragon Precise Copper Tube Group — that plans to build a $100 million plant there, with more than 300 jobs.
905 2011-11-28 “How are you giving these elections legitimacy by running?” demanded one man among those constantly accosting him in the square.

Caught between placating that mood and fearing who might win, Mr. Elelaimy urges people to vote, but to return immediately to Tahrir. Once the multistage elections are complete next year, if Parliament fails to effect change, to truly put in place civilian rule, within six months, the people can always occupy the square again, he said.

The family genes are steeped in protest movements. His only sibling, a younger brother, took a pellet in the back during the latest skirmishes. A grandfather and two uncles were jailed for being communists, while his mother, Ikram Youssef, a journalist, was tried under President Anwar el-Sadat. At age 5, Zyad awoke to find his mother gone, arrested overnight because Mr. Sadat had failed to sign a blanket pardon years earlier. His father took him along to a lawyer, who assured the boy that his mother would be freed within days. That moment inspired Zyad to become a lawyer himself. (His father, a veterinarian, died soon afterward, and his mother later married a fellow journalist.)

Because his mother worked, Zyad was a latchkey child, and one day a horrified neighbor who fed him after school told his mother that Zyad did not understand what it meant to be a Muslim. Mrs. Youssef recalled, laughing, “He had told her that Muslims and Christians are all the same.”

He joined a secret communist youth movement at age 16 and was soon arrested, the first of four short jailings — the last being for three days during the Tahrir uprising. The police often seemed to single him out for beatings because he stood in the front row, his 6-foot height and burly frame making him seem older than his years.

Mr. Elelaimy defied even his mother’s authority by marrying his college sweetheart before graduating in 2002. The couple are now divorced, but he lives down the street from his ex-wife and young son, Nadim, named after a 19th-century anticolonialist.

In 2003, security forces beat him badly, breaking his arm after arresting him at a march against the American invasion of Iraq. After opening his own law office, he dedicated his practice partly to human rights cases.

Mr. Elelaimy’s activism, which would culminate in Tahrir, gathered steam in 2010. Like many young leftists, he was inspired by Mohamed ElBaradei, the former chief United Nations weapons inspector who challenged the idea that political change needed to await Mr. Mubarak’s death. Mr. Elelaimy ended up as a representative of Mr. ElBaradei’s campaign on the Revolution Youth Coalition, giving one of the first speeches exhorting people to join the Tahrir protests when they started Jan. 25.

“We decided to come here today to tell the Egyptian government that we will not be silent anymore!” he roared into a portable loudspeaker, the video available on YouTube. “Today we either stand side by side and take our rights together, or we lose the chance. It’s a now-or-never moment!”

After Mr. Mubarak fell, Mr. Elelaimy attended just one meeting with the ruling military council, realizing that it wanted to placate the youth rather than share power. “We lost control,” he conceded. “We are still in yesterday; we are still in the opposition.”

Mr. Elelaimy has maintained a lower profile than most other revolutionary youths, sensing that many Egyptians are tired of hearing the organizers gloat about the Mubarak overthrow while daily life remains a struggle. He describes himself as a reluctant politician pursuing “gradual radical change” so the public will accept it.

After Mr. Mubarak fell, Mr. Elelaimy helped found the Egyptian Social Democratic Party. It has a reputation as the party of Westernized intellectuals, with its call for a secular government — although it uses the term “civilian,” because religious factions have basically turned “secular” into a synonym for “foreign orgy.”

Mr. Elelaimy argues that Islamist groups, including the Muslim Brotherhood, are the ones polluting Egyptian traditions with something foreign by adopting an intolerant world view from Saudi Arabia. “Egyptian society was built on diversity,” he said.

He hammered on that theme before abandoning the campaign trail.

“When we examine the candidates, there are those who have corrupted our country for 30 years and those who want to take our country back 30 centuries,” he roared in one speech.

Being a populist helped elicit a warm response; he adopted positions difficult to fulfill, like saying Egyptians should have the legal right to eat meat daily.

Mr. Elelaimy needs to stand out in a race that resembles a cattle stampede, with 130 candidates running in his south Cairo district alone in the first round of parliamentary voting, scheduled to begin Monday.

Some people, but certainly not all, recognized him from his first Tahrir days, and questions after one rally tended toward how he would fix bad sewers rather than an imperfect democracy.

“He was one of the Facebook youth,” said Samah Ouieda, wearing the full facial veil of a devout Muslim. But Muslim political parties make her nervous. She emphasized: “When he speaks about equal rights for all, I believe him. When the Islamist parties say it, I don’t.”
906 2011-11-28 As the first due dates approach on the Greek government’s novel idea of linking electricity to tax payments, a growing resentment is settling over many parts of this country — one that some local officials believe could even shake its political stability.

Already there are pockets of resistance popping up in dozens of areas, including this northern suburb of Athens, where Mayor Iraklis Gotsis has promised to fight the tax bills in court. He has also organized a group of electricians willing to reconnect — illegally — anyone who is cut off. “This thing on top of all the other taxes and salary cuts has made people snap,” Mr. Gotsis said recently. “It is the drop that made the glass full.”

Many Greeks consider the new tax, which makes no exceptions for the unemployed or the elderly and is much higher than any real estate tax they have paid before, to be one more sign of the tough austerity measures they are suffering under as a requirement for European aid. European finance ministers will meet Tuesday to decide whether to release the next $10.6 billion allotment to the Greek government.

In the past, most Greeks paid real estate taxes when they bought, sold or inherited property. They also paid comparatively small yearly taxes to municipalities. Someone in Mr. Chatzis’s circumstances might have paid less than $133 a year in total. Now he will have to pay an additional $373 this year and the next.

In September, under pressure to come up with $2.6 billion to close a budget gap, and losing the battle against tax cheats, Greek officials settled on the idea of linking a new real estate tax to bills from the government-owned power company.

The new tax, which they say they will levy again next year,  is based on square footage, the age of the building and the average value of a neighborhood, and has nothing to do with the taxpayer’s income.

But lately, even the government seems to be having second thoughts about the tax. Last week, the power company announced that it would send out cutoff notices, but said that it would hold back on taking any such measures until the government had considered the circumstances of the affected families. Meanwhile, union workers occupied the power company’s billing center, preventing any new bills from going out.  Some Greeks just do not believe that the government will ever have the nerve to cut power to thousands of homes. They say it will be yet another change of course, as is so often the case here. Deadlines are set and then rescinded. Tough tax laws are put forth and then amnesties are offered.

“I honestly don’t believe they will do this,” said Pantelis Ksiridakis, the mayor of a wealthier suburb, who described the policy as a form of blackmail that may work for the rich, but is crushing to the poor. “They are pushing people to the limit with this.”

“This is a tax that nobody expected, and they are demanding cash. No structured payments,” he added.

In Nea Ionia, Mayor Gotsis has offered to have municipal lawyers defend those who cannot, or will not, pay the tax; about 1,000 residents have come forward so far.

Most, he said, fall into the first category. Greece’s creditors, he said, forget that large numbers of Greeks, even if they have evaded taxes at the margins, are not wealthy. About 25 percent of the small stores in Nea Ionia have closed in the last two years, hit hard by the country’s deepening recession and rising unemployment rate.

Vangelis Avlonitis is one of the electricians who has volunteered to restore power, if the mayor asks him to. His  shop is not far from Town Hall and is decorated these days with the neon signs he made for his customers before their shops went out of business.

Mr. Avlonitis says he is barely scraping by himself. But for others it is much worse. One neighbor stopped by last week and told him her pension was $440 a month and her tax bill was $480.

“This is ridiculous,” he said, pointing out a ladder he had bought in case the power company cut the electricity at the poles.

Not everyone in this suburb is refusing to pay. Some say they will find the money because they believe  their country is in trouble. One man, who  declined to give his name, said he, too, had lost his business — a snack shop — last year. But he is surviving on the income from a few properties he owns and will pay the new tax.

“We have to help the state,” he said. “The tax is unfair. We are not the first ones who should be paying. The ones who have Swiss bank accounts should be paying. But that is still how things are here.”

The Greek government has struggled to improve tax collection. At first, officials were optimistic that they could capture at least a portion of an estimated $27 billion in unpaid taxes each year.

Various experts have put Greece’s shadow economy at about 25 percent of its gross domestic product, compared with less than 8 percent for the United States.

But last year, Greek officials collected even less than the year before. Some of the decline in revenues resulted from the decline in the economy. But some new tax collection strategies — incentives to collect receipts so that fewer business could work off the books, for instance — backfired and actually reduced people’s tax bills.

And the state seemed to make little progress in getting the scofflaws to pay. Some 70 percent of the tax collected came  from salaried employees and retirees, who have little way to hide their income. Meanwhile, 7 out of 10 self-employed workers, including doctors, dentists, engineers, accountants, taxi drivers and small business owners, indicated on their tax forms that they had made less than $16,000 a year, a figure that most experts find laughable.

The Greek Public Power Corporation  recently announced that of the 86,000 bills that came due recently  — a tiny fraction of the 5.5 million households in Greece — 73 percent had been paid. Its press release struck an optimistic tone, suggesting the rate of payment was similar to the usual rate.

But critics point out that such a percentage  means that the government could be facing the prospect of tens of thousands of shut-offs in the middle of winter.

Some of the rebellious pushback has bordered on the humorous. For instance, the Health Ministry in downtown Athens was in the dark for four hours last week, courtesy of the power company’s union workers.

Since government ministries owe the power company $180 million, the union argues, why shouldn’t they suffer cutoffs?

There are also half a dozen legal protests pending. And a YouTube video describing how to reconnect your electricity if you get cut off has gone viral.

In Nea Ionia recently, Mr. Chatzis, sitting near an electric heater at a friend’s hardware store, was fretting about the tax bill and remembering the years he spent as a prisoner in World War II after resisting the Axis occupation of his country. “Now it seems like the fascists are back again,” he said of the pressure on Greece to raise more revenue and narrow its budget deficit. “What did we fight for?”
907 2011-11-28 Bringing information technology and better data collection to such an old-world industry is part of the plan. So is working with the fishermen it licenses to control overfishing by expanding closed areas and converting trawlers — boats that drag weighted nets across the ocean floor — to engage in more gentle and less ecologically damaging techniques like using traps, hooks and line, and seine netting.

The conservancy’s model is designed to take advantage of radical new changes in government regulation that allow fishermen in the region both more control and more responsibility for their operating choices. The new rules have led to better conservation practices across all fleets, government monitors say.

“It is blowing me away what is happening out there,” said William Stelle, the administrator for Pacific Northwest region of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s marine fisheries service. But, he added, the conservancy “may be the most sophisticated example of the successful marriage of interests between the environmental community and the fishing industry in marine conservation.” Similar programs are beginning to appear in other places.

American fish stocks have been troubled since the early 1990s and remain so because of overfishing, pollution, and warming seas. The government says that today 23 percent of fish stocks are not at self-sustaining levels at current fishing pressure.

Congress passed a law in 1996 demanding that local fishery councils protect “essential fish habitat.” In 2006, it also imposed tight catch limits for overfished species. As a result, if a fishery exceeds its limit on just one of these species, under federal law, the entire area could be closed to commercial boats for a season.

Local councils have struggled to balance the inherent tensions of adhering to these limits without ruining the fishermen’s ability to make a living. To do this, they have imposed regulations like prohibiting fishing in some areas, dictating the catch season and limiting what techniques and gear are used.

But last year, the Pacific Fisheries Management Council replaced some of those restrictions with strict quotas on six imperiled species and parceled them out among all 138 commercial vessels along the coast. Government observers are now put on every boat to make sure there is no cheating.

The downside is that if one boat lands too much of a sensitive species, known as bycatch, it must be docked until it can buy another boat’s unused quota — and there is not always a market to balance the catch. The quota system also provides incentive for each fisherman in the risk pool to help prevent others from using up their quota. And the early results for fish stocks are promising. Bycatch has dropped from 15 percent to 20 percent of the total haul to less than 1 percent.

The Nature Conservancy first got involved in central California in 2004 when it was looking to invest in marine conservation zones. The group realized that it needed better information to preserve the most critical areas.

“What the fishermen had was a deep local knowledge of the habitats of certain species,” said Michael Bell, senior project director with the conservancy. “There wasn’t scientific information at that level that could match the fisherman knowledge.”

But getting information from fishermen was difficult because they suspected that the conservancy was just looking to close off more prime fishing territory. So to get cooperation, as well as to reduce trawling along as much of the central coast as possible, the conservancy agreed to reduce the potential financial hardship to fishermen by buying the boats or the fishing permits of anyone who wanted out of the business. Thirteen volunteered to sell their permits, and six of the lot also sold their boats for a cost of about $7 million.

The fishermen soon divulged which nurseries and rock formations needed to be protected and which areas where mature fish congregated should be left open. What resulted was a proposal that included large areas of closings — nearly 4 million acres — that most fishermen thought was fair. It was adopted easily by the fishery council in 2006.

It has not been unheard of for environmental groups to buy boats and licenses and then to retire that part of the quota to take pressure off of an area fishery. But it was not an outcome that the fishermen or their coastal towns — Monterey, Half Moon Bay and Fort Bragg — wanted in this case. Rick Algert, the former harbor director for Morro Bay, near Monterey, explained that fishermen were critical to supporting local infrastructure like fuel piers. And besides, he said, “tourists still like to see boats in a working harbor.”

So the conservancy agreed to lease back some permits and boats, but only if their sustainable conditions were met.

Perhaps the hardest one for the fishermen to accept was the automated posting system known as eCatch. But fishermen have come to believe that the data will show patterns — for example, high catch rates of certain species after full moons along the edge of the shallow water shelf in July — that will help them all predict the danger zones. Independent fisherman have joined the risk pool and eCatch system because they see benefits. By handing out free iPads, the conservancy made the posting of real-time results almost effortless.

Their well-financed effort is among the most technologically advanced and coordinated in the country, but others are catching on. In Massachusetts, scallop fishermen, with the help of the University of Massachusetts, have developed a similar reporting program to avoid pulling in endangered yellowtail flounder.

Many of the fishermen have become fans of a system that yields profits and hardly any bycatch. Steve Fitz, Stevie’s uncle, sold their fishing permit to the conservancy and now leases it back. The lease is fair-market value as long as Mr. Fitz continues to use Scottish seining, which is far gentler to the ocean bottom than trawling is.

“The Nature Conservancy had identified that the small family boats were sustainable, and they wanted to help,” Mr. Fitz said. “We recognized that we needed help negotiating this increasingly confusing path into the future.”
908 2011-11-28 Less than a week after having arthroscopic surgery on her right knee, Stockard Channing returned on Friday to her role as Polly Wyeth in Jon Robin Baitz’s “Other Desert Cities” at the Booth Theater, The Associated Press reported. Ms. Channing, 67, missed seven performances after injuring her knee backstage on Nov. 18. She plans to continue to perform in the role, though her understudy, Lauren Klein, will take over for Wednesday’s matinee performance, according to Lincoln Center Theater representatives. This drama about a dysfunctional family also stars Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach and Judith Light.
909 2011-11-28 ¶Merck Consumer Care, a unit of Merck & Company, chose Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, to handle three creative assignments with combined spending estimated at close to $50 million. The assignments Publicis will handle are for Miralax in the United States, which had been handled by Merkley & Partners, New York, part of the Omnicom Group; the Dr. Scholl brand in Latin America, which is, according to the company, essentially a new assignment; and a prospective new product in the United States that adweek.com described as an incontinence product for women. Publicis Worldwide joins Euro RSCG Worldwide, a division of Havas, on the global Merck Consumer Care agency roster.

¶BBDO New York was awarded two large assignments. One is from the New York State agency known as the Empire State Development Corporation, which sought an agency to work on campaigns that carry the theme “New York open for business” and support the state’s business development efforts. Spending could be as much as $50 million over a two-year period. A contract includes an option for two additional one-year renewals.

BBDO New York was also hired by Foot Locker Inc., New York, to create campaigns for three brands in the United States: Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker. The assignment, with spending estimated at more than $13 million, includes ads for Foot Locker for the current Christmas shopping season and ads to run next year for all three brands. The assignment had previously been handled by SapientNitro, New York, part of Sapient. BBDO New York is part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group.

¶GNC Holdings, Pittsburgh, chose McKinney, Durham, N.C., as its creative agency. The assignment, with spending estimated at $50 million to $60 million, had been handled by the Arnell Group, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, which did not take part in a review. A new campaign is expected early next year, said Jeff Hennion, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at GNC.

¶Christophe Ginisty was elected president of the International Public Relations Association for 2013. He will serve as president-elect next year as Johanna McDowell serves her term as president. Mr. Ginisty is deputy managing director for the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions at Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.

¶National spot radio sales are expected to increase 3.1 percent this year compared with 2010, according to the National Spot Radio Market Update from the Katz Radio Group, part of Clear Channel Communications. There was a slowdown in the fourth quarter, the report said, echoing reports from other media that show some softening in demand for commercial time or ad space. However, 2012 is off to “a positive start,” according to the report, with “solid demand from national advertisers” and percentage increases in the single digits for the first two months.
910 2011-11-28 LOS ANGELES — Despite much learned talk about the game-changing scientific discoveries in radioactivity it portrays, “Radiance,” a new drama by Alan Alda at the Geffen Playhouse here, doesn’t emit much in the way of theatrical light.

Certainly Mr. Alda, the amiable actor and besotted science buff, does his studious best to illuminate the challenges that Marie Curie, gracefully portrayed by Anna Gunn, faced in pursuing a career in the sciences at a time when it was virtually unheard of for women to take prominent roles in academic or public life. But his dramatization of Curie’s personal and professional trials often feels like a talking diorama in a science museum, at least until it makes a sudden leap into juicy, gaslit melodrama in the second act.

Directed by the veteran Daniel Sullivan, “Radiance” takes up Curie’s story as she and her husband, Pierre, are together making startling discoveries in their makeshift laboratory near Paris. Having previously identified a new radioactive element, which they named polonium in honor of Marie’s Polish origins, they have stumbled upon a second, which they called radium. The challenge ahead is to isolate it, and Marie’s dedication to her profession is such that she is willing to endure “freezing eyelids and bleeding fingers,” not to mention much less time with her children, to achieve her goal.

It’s never easy to create popular entertainment from the painstaking drudgery and intellectual arcana of science and chemistry. Dialogue in which Pierre (John de Lancie) announces that “radium is all bound up with barium, and we have to separate it out with fractional crystallization” doesn’t really make audiences twitch in their seats with excitement.

Mr. Alda isn’t altogether adept in the necessary matter of exposition, either, leaving Ms. Gunn to deliver a stagy monologue describing Marie’s unhappy history as a governess back in Poland. Whenever Mr. Alda finds himself needing to provide context that he cannot weave into the episodic narrative itself, the characters also turn away from the Bunsen burners and formula-covered blackboards to reveal their thoughts directly to the audience.
911 2011-11-28 “They can’t be blamed, based on their past data, for getting it wrong,” said Fiona Hill, a scholar who is studying the role of public opinion in Russian politics. “But something has changed. The biggest problem is that people have gotten fed up with them. If you look at long-serving leaders like and , you see that their ratings tank in the latter half of the decade. It’s like the seven-year itch of politics.”

The Putin era is in its 12th year. Mr. Putin, who first became acting president in 1999, was elected to the job in 2000 and re-elected in 2004. Constitutionally barred from a third consecutive term, he became prime minister in 2008 and was succeeded as president by his protégé, Mr. Medvedev.

But any suggestion of ennui was drowned out by lights and bunting at Sunday’s nominating convention, where an 11,000-seat hall rang with chants of “Pu-tin! Pu-tin! Pu-tin!”

Nominating him for a term that would end in 2018, speaker after speaker focused on Mr. Putin’s role in taming the economic and political disorder of the 1990s, a compelling but increasingly distant memory, especially for young voters. Voters complaining about the current system, Mr. Putin said, were forgetting how much worse things were before he came to power in 1999.

“When a regular person has to deal with financial problems or some other problems in his day-to-day life, when he faces corruption and other small problems, he doesn’t remember the massive problems” of the past, Mr. Putin said. “The indignation that person has is usually turned against the current authority.”

The convention was marked by ferocious attacks on the political opposition, including from Mr. Medvedev, who until recently had argued for greater political pluralism. Mr. Putin, for his part, suggested that signs of rising discontent were the result of covert meddling by Western governments.

“Representatives of some countries meet with those whom they pay money, the so-called grant recipients, give them instructions and guidance for what ‘work’ they need to do to influence the election campaign in our country,” he said.

These efforts, he said, were “money thrown at the wind, firstly, because Judas is not the most respected biblical figure among our people, and secondly, it would be better if they used this money to pay off their national debt and stop conducting an ineffective and costly foreign policy.”

Party officials seemed to hope that Mr. Putin would infuse the party with some of his own popularity by accepting its nomination, something he has never done before, preferring to run as an independent. His September announcement, intended to lay the groundwork for an easy campaign season, achieved nothing of the kind.

The backlash began within hours, when Finance Minister Aleksei L. Kudrin told reporters he would leave the government rather than report to Mr. Medvedev, whom Mr. Putin promised to install as prime minister. United Russia’s approval ratings, already in decline, began to fall faster, possibly because Mr. Putin’s name, long atop the party list, had been abruptly replaced by Mr. Medvedev’s.

And Mr. Putin, whose robust popularity is a cornerstone of his government’s claim on legitimacy, seems to be taking a hit himself. This has never been more apparent than it was a week ago, when fans booed Mr. Putin when he climbed into the ring after a match to congratulate the victor, an incident that seemed to puncture some protective membrane around the prime minister.

Three days later, when Mr. Putin addressed Parliament, a number of opposition lawmakers remained seated, an unusual show of rebellion.

Ms. Hill, who is studying fluctuations in poll numbers, said that Mr. Putin’s lagging approval ratings were very unusual. In past political cycles, his popularity has always peaked just before Election Day; previous drops, meanwhile, have been associated with specific events, like financial setbacks or disasters. The current dynamic, she said, is reminiscent of the late years of Lady Thatcher or , who also enjoyed great popularity early on.

“By the end, the brand is shot; you can’t rebrand it,” she said. Russian authorities, she said, “seem too confident that they can pull it off.”

Another analyst, Aleksei Mukhin, said the September announcement was “an improvisation” and a tactical error.

The announcement displeased Mr. Medvedev’s supporters, who had hoped he would be allowed a second term, as well as those in Mr. Putin’s circle who did not want to report to Mr. Medvedev as prime minister, and members of United Russia, which needed him at the top of its parliamentary list, said Mr. Mukhin, director of the Center for Political Information, a research center in Moscow.

“Vladimir Putin has tried to create the illusion of stability and success, and warned others not to rock the boat,” Mr. Mukhin said. “In fact, it turned out the opposite way. He is the one who has rocked the boat.”

Many Russians were offended by Mr. Putin’s terse explanation that he and Mr. Medvedev had privately decided to switch places long ago, said Konstantin V. Remchukov, the editor of Nezavisimaya Gazeta, a newspaper that is frequently critical of the government.

Since then, Mr. Putin has repeatedly explained that he needs to stay in power because is entering a period of dangerous volatility that requires a steady hand. But that explanation is also meeting with skepticism, Mr. Remchukov said.

“We are coming to the point where people more and more often ask, ‘Are they really doing all this for stability, or is it that the year they leave power there would be some consequence, like a corruption investigation?’ ” Mr. Remchukov said. “It seems like they are pushed into a corner. Mr. Putin is pushed into a corner where he has no option but to preserve power.”
912 2011-11-28 WASHINGTON -- The coverage was hard-hitting and shocking to some: members of Congress received special opportunities to get in on the ground floor of stock offerings and were actively trading in shares of companies ''whose prosperity they influenc...
913 2011-11-28 LOS ANGELES -- Despite much learned talk about the game-changing scientific discoveries in radioactivity it portrays, ''Radiance,'' a new drama by Alan Alda at the Geffen Playhouse here, doesn't emit much in the way of theatrical light.     Certai...
914 2011-11-28 Zynga's chief executive, Mark Pincus, got an earful from employees last month.     In dozens of e-mails to a companywide list, frustrated workers complained about the long hours and stressful deadline periods. The quarterly staff survey solicited ...
915 2011-11-29 Siri, Apple's virtual assistant software, appears to draw a blank when some users ask it to suggest an abortion clinic. A founder of Siri said it was not clear whether its inability to produce answers to specific queries was a deliberate decision ...
916 2011-11-29 The parent company of American Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection in an effort to reduce labor costs and shed its heavy debt load....
917 2011-11-29 The AMR Corporation is in bankruptcy court for its first day of Chapter 11 hearings. The parent of American Airlines, the company is seeking approval for a flurry of customary motions that will keep its lights as it seeks to cut costs in bankruptc...
918 2011-11-29 How miles, future flights and services are likely to change now that American Airlines has filed for bankruptcy....
919 2011-11-29 How miles, future flights and services are likely to change now that American Airlines has filed for bankruptcy....
920 2011-11-29 The parent company of American Airlines files for Chapter 11.
921 2011-11-29 According to a new report to be issued Wednesday by Nielsen, the market research firm, Google and Apple are both winning in the mobile smartphone race. Android has become the operating system of choice for most consumers, partly because of the ine...
922 2011-11-29 Parents who believe in vaccination need to push back against easy - but dangerous - exemptions for those who don't....
923 2011-11-29 Parents who believe in vaccination need to push back against easy - but dangerous - exemptions for those who don't....
924 2011-11-29 A scary blocked shot has left the Red Wings' Patrick Eaves with a broken jaw....
925 2011-11-29 A scary blocked shot has left the Red Wings' Patrick Eaves with a broken jaw....
926 2011-11-29 Newt Gingrich warns two of his Republican opponents -- Mitt Romney and Michele Bachmann -- that attacking him on illegal immigration might hurt them in the end....
927 2011-11-29 Newt Gingrich warns two of his Republican opponents -- Mitt Romney and Michele Bachmann -- that attacking him on illegal immigration might hurt them in the end....
928 2011-11-29 The Cuban-American leaders in Florida - Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart -- agree to disagree with Mitt Romney about immigration....
929 2011-11-29 The Cuban-American leaders in Florida - Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Mario Diaz-Balart and Lincoln Diaz-Balart -- agree to disagree with Mitt Romney about immigration....
930 2011-11-29 Mr. Parsons, the "Big Bang Theory" star, will take on the role of Elwood, the genial eccentric who claims to see a six-foot-tall white rabbit named Harvey....
931 2011-11-29 Mr. Parsons, the "Big Bang Theory" star, will take on the role of Elwood, the genial eccentric who claims to see a six-foot-tall white rabbit named Harvey....
932 2011-11-29 Siri, Apple’s virtual assistant software, appears to draw a blank when some users ask it to suggest an abortion clinic....
933 2011-11-29 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
934 2011-11-29 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
935 2011-11-29 The AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, filed for Chapter 11 on Tuesday and named Thomas W. Horton as the new chairman....
936 2011-11-29 The AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Tuesday in an effort to reduce labor costs and shed a heavy debt burden....
937 2011-11-29 Endless matches between cricket teams are affecting the sport....
938 2011-11-29 Endless matches between cricket teams are affecting the sport....
939 2011-11-29 The window of opportunity for Microsoft to come out with a Windows tablet that successfully challenges the iPad is closing, according to a report from Forrester Research to be published Tuesday. A recent survey by the firm shows that consumer inte...
940 2011-11-29 Business books were the big sellers at the Bangalore Book Fair....
941 2011-11-29 Business books were the big sellers at the Bangalore Book Fair....
942 2011-11-29 PHOENIX — The mother of a missing 5-year-old girl from Glendale, Ariz., who was arrested last week on suspicion of child abuse, was released from jail on Monday morning after prosecutors failed to file formal charges in the case, the authorities said.

But Sgt. Brent Coombs of the Glendale police said the investigation of the mother, Jerice Hunter, and the role she might have played in the disappearance of her daughter, Jhessye Shockley, would continue, and the authorities suggested that charges might be refiled against Ms. Hunter in the near future.

After reporting Jhessye (pronounced jessie) missing on Oct. 11 in a panicked 911 call, Ms. Hunter, 38, was accused by one of her older daughters, who is 13 and in foster care, of keeping Jhessye in a closet and of roughing her up before she disappeared, according to a court document filed by the authorities.

After searching for Jhessye for weeks, the police arrested Ms. Hunter last Monday and held her in $100,000 bail. At a news conference the afternoon of the arrest, Sergeant Coombs said that Ms. Hunter was a suspect in Jhessye’s disappearance and that the police presumed that the child was dead. At a court hearing last Tuesday, Ms. Hunter, who has tearfully denied any role in her daughter’s disappearance, gave a surprised look when a judge told her she was accused of keeping her daughter in a closet.

Sergeant Coombs said in a statement Monday that prosecutors chose not to pursue the case against Ms. Hunter in order to investigate further information. “We are not able to provide any specific details on the new information other than to say the focus and direction of the investigation into the disappearance of Jhessye Shockley has not changed,” he said.

A spokesman for the Maricopa County Attorney’s Office, Jerry Cobb, told reporters that Ms. Hunter had been released because prosecutors did not charge her within the required 48 hours. He said the release of Ms. Hunter did not mean charges would not be filed in the future.
943 2011-11-29 BLACK FRIDAY. I’m not shopping but I am in a mall — the Atlantic Center in Brooklyn, home of the Department of Motor Vehicles, a pedestrian bridge away from the second floor of Target. Having surfaced from the underworld of the Atlantic-Pacific subway station, my 19-year-old son, Walker, and I have taken two flights of stairs and an escalator to emerge on the wrong side of the mall. By the time we arrive at the D.M.V.’s doors and survey the tangled queues of wild-eyed applicants, we’ve struggled through a tide of consumers washing frantically in and out of stores, dragged down by purchases but still moving briskly. What would be worse, I find myself wondering, to join the frenzy of holiday shopping, or to at last confront the appointment with destiny Walker and I have conspired to avoid for years?

No longer a minor in the eyes of the law, my 6-foot-1, 200-pound son is too big and too old to depend on the indulgence of an airline official to allow him to board a plane on the basis of his dimples, friendly face and a school ID. He needs government-issued picture identification. And he needs me to accompany him to the D.M.V. to apply for a driver’s permit because I (along with his birth certificate and Social Security card) am one of his three required forms of identification. I stand before a D.M.V. official and sign a paper swearing under oath that the young man next to me is my son. Segregated from the rest of us in a glass-windowed examination room, Walker takes the written test. Once he has passed, he’s issued a receipt bearing the number 952.

Bathed in sickly fluorescence, we settle in for as many hours as it will take for number 952 to flash red on a screen and direct us to one of the 40 windows, many of them unattended. Fortunate to have snagged adjacent seats on one of the punitive pewlike benches in the congested waiting area, I strip off my coat, and settle in. The woman to my left gives me a murderous glare when the edge of my coat brushes her knee, and I hurriedly gather it onto my lap. Every other driver’s permit applicant, mostly teenagers, seems to have come with an entourage of relatives — mothers, aunts, siblings and cousins. Babies scream; adults scream; the mood is volatile, the atmosphere fogged with infectious droplets. I’m surveying the crowd, wondering how many of these justifiably angry people carry knives or even handguns to express their palpable hostility, and what the ratio of security and police officers is to civilians, when I see a small man of no certain ethnic origin dragging a large plastic garbage bag behind him.

The frenzy of Black Friday has entered the room, and I lean forward to see what he’s selling from his Santa-size pack. Batteries? Toys with flashing lights that will break before Christmas? Flimsy kitchen appliances? Maybe the police have better things to do than run herd on destitute immigrants trying not to starve, even when they ply their illegal trade in a government building. The small man approaches with a couple of blister packs in his hand, flashing them like contraband. Keeping the merchandise low, at about knee level, he squeezes among the aisles of potential customers until he reaches me. Key rings, attached to small black canisters.

“Pepper spray,” he whispers in answer to my raised eyebrows.

Of course, I think. Cabbage Patch Kids. Rubik’s Cubes. Tickle Me Elmos. Razor scooters. Snuggies. Pocket cans of pepper spray. Better get to the D.M.V. quick — at $2 a pop this year’s must-have gift was selling out fast.
944 2011-11-29 “That’s a trend that you can see that happens,” defensive tackle Sione Pouha said. “We’re well aware of that trend, that we’ve got to finish drives.”

When the Bills took possession at their 27 with 54 seconds remaining, the Jets fell into a prevent defense, a cover-5, that they have not had much reason to play during games. When they sought to protect their lead in Denver, the Jets guarded against the run. When they aimed to stop New England on Oct. 9, the Jets flooded the box with defensive backs, daring the Patriots to run, which they did.

As a unit, the Jets’ defense on Monday watched film of Buffalo’s drive, and linebacker Aaron Maybin said he felt “a sense of frustration.” The defensive coordinator Mike Pettine preached consistency, bemoaning several small mistakes that created bigger problems.

On Johnson’s route, a post pattern, the Jets were playing zone coverage. Revis said he should have played Johnson tighter, not letting him cut outside, then in, to find space to roam. Revis also said that Brodney Pool, the safety on his side of the field, should not have allowed Johnson to move inside on him.

On Sunday, Revis did not think Johnson, had he caught the ball, would have scored. After watching film, he changed his mind.

Pool said, “He did a good job of just getting open, but he didn’t do a good job catching the ball.”

On Fitzpatrick’s next pass, which sailed a few inches behind Johnson in the back of the end zone, Revis faulted Pool for drifting toward him, for not maintaining his coverage.

Maybin said, “If we’re going to really consider ourselves one of the best defenses in the N.F.L., we can’t have those inconsistencies.”

Ryan said that some of his defenses in years past could preserve leads by shutting out opponents. This group, he said, is not there yet, but he vowed it would be. If so, it must happen soon. The Jets have five games left, of which they must win at least four to have a chance of making the playoffs.

Another lapse like Sunday, and the Jets’ chances could disappear.

“I hope we continue to be lucky,” Ryan said after initially dismissing the suggestion. “We’ll take that. The old saying, you’d rather be lucky than good? I’d rather be both. And I think we are.”

Stevie Johnson’s touchdown celebration, in which he mocked Plaxico Burress by pretending to shoot himself in the thigh, was panned among Jets who did not see it until after Sunday’s game. Rex Ryan called it ridiculous, and Darrelle Revis called Johnson “young and immature.” Sione Pouha seemed more bothered that Johnson fell to the ground after spreading his arms and pretending to fly, suggesting that it was a reference to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. “The airplane thing was kind of a dagger,” Pouha said. Burress told “The Michael Kay Show” on ESPN Radio on Monday that Johnson left him a voicemail and texted him an apology. ... Ryan said defensive lineman Mike DeVito would miss Sunday’s game at Washington after injuring the medial collateral ligament in his left knee. ... Safety Emanuel Cook, who recovered Buffalo’s botched squib kick Sunday, was released for undisclosed reasons. Tracy Wilson will be promoted from the practice squad to replace him.
945 2011-11-29 The prime minister and his cabinet resigned Monday amid accusations of corruption and pressure for reforms from a broad coalition including Islamists and liberals. The opposition has been calling for the dismissal of the prime minister, Sheik Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed al-Sabah, left, a member of the royal family whom they suspect of corruption, an accusation he denies. The standoff intensified last month, when a mob of angry demonstrators stormed the Parliament building. The emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, accepted the resignations, but then directed the officials to remain in office as a caretaker government. The outraged opposition staged an all-night protest near Parliament.
946 2011-11-29 Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan was in good health after laparoscopic surgery on his digestive system, his office said Monday. Mr. Erdogan, 57, had the operation on Saturday and was recovering at Marmara University Hospital in Istanbul, a government official said, adding that he expected the prime minister to be discharged Tuesday. Mr. Erdogan was elected prime minister in June for a third consecutive term.
947 2011-11-29 The first five floors of the 76-story tower house the new Public School 397, the entrance of which is on the east side of the building, separated from the residents’ entrance on the west, so the streams of children arriving and lawyers and bankers leaving for work do not have to cross.

By building the school, the developer, Forest City Ratner Companies, was able to secure $203.9 million in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds to finance construction. (Forest City Ratner was the development partner of The New York Times in its Midtown headquarters.)

But stacking a residential tower atop a school can create complications. Jaquelin Febrillet-Barr, who has two sons at the school, said it recently sent a letter to parents informing them that someone in the building had been dropping bottles out of a window or off a terrace, which had landed on the school’s rooftop playground. Asked about the episode, the Education Department said the principal had notified the building’s management, which had subsequently sent a letter to the building’s tenants.

So far, all floors up to the 60th have been opened for renters, and 60 percent of the building’s 903 units are occupied, said Clifford Finn, president of new development marketing at CitiHabitats, which handles leasing for the building.

Kathrin Hoffmann, 31, who works at an advertising company, lives on the 10th floor, where the apartments are cheaper and the view is mostly of adjacent buildings.

“I couldn’t afford anything higher,” she said, as she walked her dog, a miniature Spitz, on a recent morning.

When Ms. Hoffmann was moving from Los Angeles four months ago, she looked online for apartments in new buildings, and New York by Gehry was one of the first to come up. She chose it partly because it was a 10-minute walk to her office.

Among the amenities, she said, she loved the 50-foot swimming pool on the seventh floor, which has glass doors, leading onto a deck, that are left open in the summer.

“The nice thing is, not a lot of people actually use it,” she said.

Asked if she used the screening room, which has curved amphitheater seating designed by Mr. Gehry, or the library full of art books and magazines, she wrinkled her nose a little.

“It feels a bit poncey in a way,” Ms. Hoffmann said, using British slang that means overly ostentatious. “My friends and I, we aren’t into that.”

But for those who like such luxuries, the building has many. There is a children’s playroom, with toys and a puppet theater, and a “tweens’ den,” with multicolored plush furniture and a Wii. There is a large gym, yoga and Pilates studios, and a spinning room with 20 bikes. There are also two golf simulators.

Not advertised: last month, the Web site Curbed.com reported an anonymous complaint that tenants in one vertical line of apartments were experiencing a heavy odor of cigarette smoke. Mr. Finn said Monday that “this was an isolated incident, and management has worked to resolve the issue.”

Compared with the lower floors, the population on the upper floors is more rarefied. Mr. Farina said that in his elevator bank, there seemed to be many people from outside New York, and even outside the United States.

“You hear a lot of different languages,” he said.

The building’s irregular shape means that, in some lines, the apartments are different, and it makes for some unusual angles and awkwardly shaped rooms. But it also means that some windows jut outward, offering better views.

On the terrace of a three-bedroom apartment on the 52nd floor, there is a stiff breeze, but the view is astounding, stretching from Coney Island to the Long Island Sound. Straight below, one can watch the cars getting on the Brooklyn Bridge.

For the ultimate elite, there are three penthouse apartments, still under construction, which will go on the market for $40,000, $45,000 and $60,000 a month. Mr. Finn described the likely renter as “probably a person who has multiple homes and entertains a lot.”

By the time those apartments are ready for occupancy next spring, perhaps the Occupy Wall Street protesters will have moved away from Zuccotti Park, which is about a half-dozen blocks south and a block west of the Gehry building.

Mr. Farina said he could often hear the protests from his 50th-floor apartment, although he said he did not mind.

Nor did he mind that, for much of the last month, the mounted police called in to manage the protesters parked their horse trailers on Spruce Street, resulting in a pervasive odor of horse manure.

Asked about the smell, he shrugged and pointed to his dog, a longhaired dachshund. “She loves the horses,” he said. “It’s exciting for her.”
948 2011-11-29 Three months after Tropical Storm Irene dismantled 14 miles of the Port Jervis train line, turning parts of the tracks traversing Orange and Rockland Counties into mangled piles of debris, Metro-North Railroad officials restored service on Monday, one month ahead of schedule.

“It’s a big deal in Orange County, and we wanted to be here to welcome our customers back to Metro-North,” said Joseph J. Lhota, the new chief of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, who, along with Howard R. Permut, Metro-North’s president, greeted passengers at the Harriman station in the morning.

Days after the storm hit, Mr. Lhota’s predecessor, Jay H. Walder, said the line had suffered some of the worst damage he had seen in 30 years. Transit officials estimated the repairs could cost $60 million, not an insignificant amount for an agency saddled with budget woes and construction project delays. Work on the Port Jervis line is continuing, but the total cost is now projected at $30 million to $40 million.

On Monday, about 1,500 customers used the train line during the morning rush. Before the storm, the line had 2,300 weekday commuters.

Riders who returned were happy to have back the relative normalcy of their long commutes. For three months, Tom Ludington’s daily commute from Harriman to Midtown Manhattan had taken two hours, instead of the one hour and 20 minutes he was used to. Mr. Ludington spent over three times as much on parking and $50 more a week on gas to drive to a train station in Ramsey, N.J.

On Monday morning, he noticed the train ride from Harriman was a few minutes longer than before the storm because Metro-North is still making repairs. Nevertheless, he said the train’s departure was so prompt he did not have time to meet Mr. Lhota or get coffee.
949 2011-11-29 Every franchise in the N.B.A. will have its own reaction to the end of the lockout. In the New York region, we have two teams, but so much else going on that it’s hard to get worked up over a revival of pro basketball.

My first flittering reaction was what scientists might call a false positive. I couldn’t remember why, but I found myself harboring a vague fondness for the Knicks. I had an impression of alert young players moving the ball, setting up Amar’e Stoudemire, playing the heady basketball we claim we like in New York.

But then I remembered I was wasting nostalgia on a team that was blown up last Feb. 21. That team does not exist anymore, since the big trade of four rotation players, Raymond Felton, Danilo Gallinari, Wilson Chandler and Timofey Mozgov; a first-round pick in 2014; and second-round picks in 2012 and 2013 to Denver, in return for Carmelo Anthony and Chauncey Billups.

The Knicks had a 28-26 record when, as far as I can reason, the Madison Square Garden chairman, James L. Dolan, engineered the trade, ignoring the builder instincts of his president, Donnie Walsh, who has since been relegated to consultancy.

Now it all comes back to me. Billups, a wise old head, was in charge of getting the ball to Anthony, who could not waste his time playing defense because he needed to shoot every time down the court. Stoudemire’s body pretty much wore down by springtime. The Knicks had a 14-14 record after the trade, then lost four straight to the Boston Celtics in the first round of the playoffs.

We are told that the Knicks’ moves cannot be judged until next season, when the team might afford the salary-cap maneuvers and sign a younger star point guard. So much for this season, now looming over us. My euphoria faded fast.

I had a vague recollection that I also liked the Nets, the other team in the New York metropolitan region. But the more I thought about it, my momentary reaction was based upon their brief era of glory, when they reached the finals two years in a row in the springs of 2002 and 2003. They were really fun to watch, with Jason Kidd making everybody better, but that team has not existed for many years.

My flicker of enthusiasm for the Nets included their move from that dismal spot in the swamps into that struggling, but recognizable, urban center, Newark. Next year they will move into a much more vibrant place — the land grab near downtown Brooklyn being a separate issue. Just the mention of Brooklyn evokes the scent of restaurants and walks in cool neighborhoods.

Then reality struck. Quick, I said to myself, name one player on the Nets. There’s the guy whose marriage to one of the Kardashians was shorter than the lockout itself. Hey, Kris, what did you do during the off-season? That guy. And didn’t they make a trade for Deron Williams, who has been keeping his shooting arm warm by playing in Turkey? And Brook Lopez. I envisioned him, too.

But just like the Knicks, the Nets seem to be a year away from anything.

Do we really need the N.B.A. to come back this soon? The N.F.L. will dominate the tube until the end of January. If we can get Penn State and Syracuse out of our nostrils — no sure thing — then we have college football into January and college basketball for four more months. The best soccer in the world has become a multiple-network reality in this region. We still have three hockey teams in our area. And call it habit, but on these long, dark evenings, I feel the urge to hit the clicker just to get the Yankees and Mets scores. Won’t be long now.

The N.B.A. players and owners may have demonstrated their irrelevancy. In the first days since the tentative labor agreement, vox populi seems to be reacting to the 66-game schedule by asking: That long, huh?
950 2011-11-29 So, Dr. Wilczek argued that night, when two particles at the L.H.C. collide at almost the speed of light, they will occasionally create a detectable excitation in the molasses — a particle that is to the Higgs field what a tsunami is to the ocean. That particle, so far undiscovered, would be the Higgs boson.

Dr. Conrad grinned. “What if the L.H.C. doesn’t find the Higgs?” she asked playfully.

Dr. Wilczek, whom I’ve never seen without a smile, was unperturbed. As twilight deepened and candelabras cast flickering shadows on the walls, he noted that precision experiments on other particles had shown that the Higgs boson has a mass that falls well within reach of the Large Hadron Collider.

He talked about the various unresolved problems of the Standard Model, and the hypothetical theory called supersymmetry, which connects particles of matter, called fermions, with particles that carry forces, called bosons.

Conversations around us grew louder as the wine flowed. Many theorists thought supersymmetry had the most compelling answers to those unresolved problems, and most supersymmetric models predicted the Higgs mass to be in the narrow range of 115 to 130 GeV (a giga-electron-volt is a unit of energy or mass; 1 GeV is a bit more than a proton’s mass).

Thus a compelling argument could be made that the Higgs had to exist, that the L.H.C. would find it, and that its mass would lie in a narrow range.

Dr. Conrad knew all this, of course, but she was enjoying the intellectual fencing match. She argued simply that experiments could disprove a compelling theoretical argument.

So they made a bet. And since Dr. Wilczek had a compelling theoretical argument on his side, he was happy to give her odds of 10 to 1. If the L.H.C. finds the Higgs boson with a mass below 150 GeV, he wins 10 Nobel chocolate coins (the pinnacle of Hanukkah gelt); if not, Dr. Conrad wins 100.

Because I’m an editor for the journal that published the original paper by Peter Higgs in 1964, as well as some of the two contestants’ most important papers, they decided to make me the bet’s adjudicator.

Since then, the Large Hadron Collider has been completed and has performed an extensive array of tests of the Standard Model. And it began to search for the Higgs boson, supersymmetric particles and other hypothetical particles.

Over the summer, the collider’s first substantial cache of data had few hints of anything new, and it was able to rule out almost the entire mass range for the Standard Model Higgs boson above 145 GeV. Some news articles speculated that the Higgs might not be found after all. So should Dr. Wilczek be worried?

No, not yet. The L.H.C. has simply confirmed that the Higgs isn’t where we thought it wasn’t. The favored mass window is still open. And if the Higgs is even slightly nonstandard, almost none of its mass range has yet been ruled out.

But the batch of data being analyzed right now should search some of the favored mass region, and all of it should be examined by the end of 2012. So the bet is likely to be resolved soon.

If Dr. Conrad wins, theorists will be scrambling for alternatives. Either way, experiment will have the last word — followed by the chocolate course.
951 2011-11-29 Jordanian analysts said the trip seemed to be part of the king’s efforts to increase his regional role as well as a message to the Palestinians that they could not avoid negotiations with Israel even as they sought unity between the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority and Hamas, which rules in Gaza.

It is also considered a warning to Khaled Meshal, the Hamas chief, that his coming trip to Jordan, his first official visit in years, should not be seen as a sign of a shift in Jordanian policy. Like the Persian Gulf monarchs, King Abdullah fears giving too much license to Islamist forces.

An Israeli official said that a recent statement by Israel’s foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, that dismissed efforts by fellow Israeli right-wingers to describe Jordan as the Palestinian homeland seemed to have motivated the king to invite Mr. Peres to Amman, Jordan’s capital, and publicize the visit. “At a time of rising Islamism across the region, the king is saying that his alliance with Israel still has significance,” the official said.

Meanwhile, Mr. Abbas said in Vienna on Monday that he remained hopeful that Palestinian elections aimed at a renewed unity between the West Bank and Gaza would occur by May 4, a year since the two sides signed a deal to try to end their dispute.

Statements by other Palestinian officials made clear, however, that the May 4 date was more theoretical than real because the two sides have to agree first on a government of technocrats to hold the elections, and those negotiations remain stuck.

“We have a long way to go,” Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator, said by telephone.

Yasser Abed Rabbo, a top aide to Mr. Abbas, told Palestinian journalists that Hamas seemed to be shying away from forming a government before elections. That strategy was a mistake, he said, because it was what Israel wanted — to divide the sides.

He added that he expected little progress on Israeli-Palestinian peace in the coming year because of upheavals in the Arab world and elections in the United States. At the same time, he said, Israel would continue building settlements in the West Bank and altering its landscape. For its part, Israel argues that it is mostly building in areas that it expects to keep in any deal with the Palestinians. For the past four weeks, Israel has withheld tax and duty payments to the Palestinian Authority worth tens of millions of dollars to register its objection to Palestinian efforts to join the United Nations as a state and to share power with Hamas.

But Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday that because the Palestinians seemed to be slowing down their United Nations membership efforts and because the unity talks with Hamas were more symbolic than substantive, he might release the money in the coming days.

In addition, several rockets were fired on Tuesday from Lebanon into northern Israel, Reuters reported. Two buildings in the western Galilee were damaged in the attack, the first since 2009, but there were no injuries reported, Israeli news media said.
952 2011-11-29 Younger women who have hysterectomies that preserve the ovaries almost double their risk of early menopause, a new study has found.

Early menopause increases the risk for osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and mortality. Current guidelines require that the ovaries be preserved during hysterectomies in the belief that this will reduce those risks. Now a large prospective study, published in the December issue of Obstetrics & Gynecology, suggests that hysterectomy may induce early menopause even when the ovaries are left intact.

Researchers compared 406 women who had had hysterectomies with 465 who had not had one. There were some differences: Women who had had hysterectomies also had higher body mass indexes and were more likely to have a history of uterine problems.

Using blood tests to determine the start of menopause and after controlling for factors affecting its onset, the researchers found that the women who had had hysterectomies went into menopause on average two years earlier.

“For women with bleeding or pain, hysterectomy does a great job of relieving those symptoms,” said Dr. Evan R. Myers, an author of the study and professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Duke University. “But there may be some longer-term trade-offs.”

The authors wrote that they could not rule out the possibility that ovarian failure was caused by the same conditions that had led to hysterectomy. The blood test to determine ovarian function can be imprecise, they also noted.
953 2011-11-29 Ms. Nuwer is hardly alone. With increasingly sophisticated detection technology, dentists are finding — and treating — tooth abnormalities that may or may not develop into cavities. While some describe their efforts as a proactive strategy to protect patients from harm, critics say the procedures are unnecessary and painful, and are driving up the costs of care.

“A better approach is watchful waiting,” said Dr. James Bader, a research professor at the University of North Carolina School of Dentistry. “Examine it again in six months.”

Every time a dentist drills into a tooth, he added, “you’re condemning that person to a refilling” years down the road.

An incipient carious lesion is the initial stage of structural damage to the enamel, usually caused by a bacterial infection that produces tooth-dissolving acid.

The lesion doesn’t always lead to a full-blown cavity, which entails decay of the layer right beneath the enamel, called dentin. Mineral-containing saliva can repair these lesions, especially when bolstered with fluoride.

Many experts think it doesn’t make sense to operate in the early stages of decay. “If you don’t have any kind of demonstrable collapse of the enamel wall, then you shouldn’t put in a filling,” Dr. Bader said.

Yet a majority of practitioners are inclined to do so. According to a 2010 National Institutes of Health survey, 63 percent of more than 500 practicing dentists said they would operate on a tooth with decay that had not progressed beyond the enamel, even if the patient had a history of good dental hygiene.

Such operations typically cost $88 to $350 per filling, according to a 2007 survey in the magazine Dental Economics. According to the American Dental Association, about 175 million filling operations are performed in the United States every year.

Insurance plans cover all fillings, whether for microcavities or full-blown cavities, because dentists bill based on the work they’ve done, not the symptoms they’ve observed.

“In an ideal world, we would have a diagnostic code” for cavities, said Dr. John Yamamoto, vice president of Delta Dental, a major provider of dental insurance. “We know what tooth, we know what surface, but we don’t know the severity of it.”

Different dentists hold to different treatment philosophies, and the dental association intentionally offers little guidance. Aside from endorsing the use of fluoride and dental sealants to prevent cavities, the association eschews formal treatment recommendations and “does not have a policy on the treatment of incipient caries,” or decay, according to a representative.

Dr. Douglas Young, a dental diagnostician at the University of the Pacific, thinks that “watchful waiting” doesn’t make sense.

“If you were to go to a physician and he were to diagnose risk factors for heart disease, the physician would take action and treat the early signs of disease and try to prevent future disease,” said Dr. Young, who helped develop a standardized cavity risk assessment adopted by the dental association.

To find incipient caries that can’t be seen with X-rays or the naked eye, dentists like Dr. Young use a variety of new and sophisticated detection methods that include fiber-optic techniques and infrared laser scanning. The Diagnodent is a popular fluorescent light scanner that picks up on abnormalities in tooth density.

Whether to fill based on a Diagnodent reading “depends on the risk,” said Dr. Margherita Fontana, an associate professor at the University of Michigan School of Dentistry. An adult with great dental hygiene is probably at lower risk of seeing a microcavity progress than a teenager who drinks soft drinks all day, she said.

But other experts are critical of the Diagnodent and other early-detection devices because they identify areas on teeth that aren’t actually carious lesions. What’s more, even with a risk assessment, it’s hard to know whether a true lesion will develop into a cavity or not.

“What’s going to happen to it over the next five years is unclear,” Dr. Bader said. “That data isn’t available yet.”

Gabriella Ribeiro Truman, 36, who runs a travel agency in New Jersey, has never had a cavity. “I’ve never had any extensive dental work, and I go for a cleaning twice a year,” she said.

About a month and a half ago, however, she went to a see a new dentist. He took some high-resolution pictures of her teeth and enlarged the images on a screen. He pointed to six microcavities, and a possible seventh.

He said that “these could turn into something major,” she said. “Root canals. I could lose my teeth.”

“You feel uncomfortable when you’re put in that position,” she added.

The dentist handed her a quote for $3,500 worth of work. The high figure gave her pause.

“To go from great dental health to something like that?” she said. “I would rather get somebody else to look at them beforehand.”
954 2011-11-29 WASHINGTON (AP) — Americans bought slightly more new homes in October, the Commerce Department said Monday, but the median sales price fell to its lowest level of the year. And the annual sales rate is trailing last year’s, which was the worst in half a century.

New-home sales increased 1.3 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 307,000, the department said. That was less than half the 700,000 that economists say indicate a healthy housing market.

September’s figures were revised down significantly to show a weaker rate than first estimated. The 323,000 new homes sold last year were the fewest since the government began keeping records in 1963. This year is not faring much better.

Sales were uneven across the country. They increased 22.2 percent in the Midwest and 14.9 percent in the West. But they were unchanged in the Northeast and fell 9.5 percent in the South.

While new-homes sales represent a fraction of the housing market, they have an outsize impact on the economy. Each home built creates an average of three jobs for a year and generates about $90,000 in tax revenue, according to the National Association of Home Builders.

Many builders have stopped working on new projects because they cannot obtain financing. The number of new homes for sale in the United States fell in October to a record low of 162,000.
955 2011-11-29 8:28 p.m. | Updated      A consortium of investors led by the private equity firm Silver Lake and Microsoft is one of several parties that will be submitting a plan to take a minority stake in Yahoo, according to people briefed on the matter....
956 2011-11-30 A five-bedroom contemporary in Westport, Conn., and a two-bedroom co-op in Yonkers....
957 2011-11-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
958 2011-11-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
959 2011-11-30 Apple responded to criticism that Siri, its virtual personal assistant software, was deliberately preventing users from searching for information related to women's health issues, like abortion and birth control....
960 2011-11-30 Apple responded to criticism that Siri, its virtual personal assistant software, was deliberately preventing users from searching for information related to women's health issues, like abortion and birth control....
961 2011-11-30 Carl C. Icahn says a stock repurchase is preferable to a possible sale of WebMD, although he acknowledges he does not know of any efforts to put the online health site on the auction block....
962 2011-11-30 Carl C. Icahn says a stock repurchase is preferable to a possible sale of WebMD, although he acknowledges he does not know of any efforts to put the online health site on the auction block....
963 2011-11-30 The margin was 419 copies....
964 2011-11-30 The margin was 419 copies....
965 2011-11-30 The changes to the legislation, which is meant to combat online piracy, are intended to answer some of the objections of Google, Yahoo and other technology companies, said Michael O'Leary of the Motion Picture Association of America....
966 2011-11-30 The changes to the legislation, which is meant to combat online piracy, are intended to answer some of the objections of Google, Yahoo and other technology companies, said Michael O'Leary of the Motion Picture Association of America....
967 2011-11-30 Lens: Cambodia...
968 2011-11-30 At least 2.7 million mortgages loaned from 2004 through 2008 have ended in foreclosure, and another 4 million are at serious risk, according to the Center for Responsible Lending....
969 2011-11-30 An analysis from the Center for Responsible Lending finds the foreclosure crisis isn't even halfway over....
970 2011-11-30 Congress is on the verge of passing a bill that would mandate military detention for terrorist suspects....
971 2011-11-30 Congress is on the verge of passing a bill that would mandate military detention for terrorist suspects....
972 2011-11-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
973 2011-11-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
974 2011-11-30 A three-judge panel is reviewing the trial court judge's ruling that denied Raj Rajaratnam bail pending the appeal of his insider trading conviction....
975 2011-11-30 A three-judge panel is reviewing the trial court judge's ruling that denied Raj Rajaratnam bail pending the appeal of his insider trading conviction....
976 2011-11-30 The advantage of Chapter 11 bankruptcy for an industry that desperately needs to restructure is speed.  Every contract is opened for renegotiation....
977 2011-11-30 The advantage of Chapter 11 bankruptcy for an industry that desperately needs to restructure is speed. Every contract is opened for renegotiation....
978 2011-11-30 Some fishermen argue that so-called "catch share" programs, intended to assure more sustainable fishing, reward big trawlers that have traditionally swept up more overfished species....
979 2011-11-30 Some fishermen argue that so-called "catch share" programs, intended to assure more sustainable fishing, reward big trawlers that have traditionally swept up more overfished species....
980 2011-11-30 Canada's competition regulator has "serious concerns" about a plan by 13 financial institutions to purchase the TMX Group for 3.8 billion Canadian dollars....
981 2011-11-30 Canada's competition regulator has "serious concerns" about a plan by 13 financial institutions to purchase the TMX Group for 3.8 billion Canadian dollars....
982 2011-11-30 Why will filing for bankruptcy protection help American Airlines and its parent company, AMR, become more financially solvent?...
983 2011-11-30 Why will filing for bankruptcy protection help American Airlines and its parent company, AMR, become more financially solvent?...
984 2011-11-30 Members of the ethnic Chin community from Myanmar, struggle to make ends meet....
985 2011-11-30 Members of the ethnic Chin community from Myanmar, struggle to make ends meet....
986 2011-11-30 An ambitious project by a California company to install solar panels for more than 100,000 military housing units has been revived with private financing after it failed to receive a loan guarantee from the federal government.

The company, SolarCity, plans to announce Wednesday that Bank of America Merrill Lynch will lend it up to $350 million to put solar electric panels on roofs and other areas to power as many as 120,000 homes for military personnel over the next five years.

Under the program, which would roughly double the number of homes with solar power if fully carried out, SolarCity will install, operate and own the solar systems, said Lyndon Rive, the company’s chief executive. Customers will pay the company for the electricity they use, with any unused power feeding back to the military bases.

The San Mateo, Calif., company had originally hoped to serve up to 160,000 homes with the help of a loan guarantee from the Obama administration. In early September the energy secretary, Steven Chu, announced preliminary approval of a guarantee that would have covered $275 million of a $344 million loan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch for the program, called SolarStrong.

But the public uproar over the bankruptcy of Solyndra, a solar module maker that had received a $535 million loan guarantee from the same program, cast a pall over other companies’ applications even as the Energy Department was racing to evaluate them before the guarantee program expired on Sept. 30.
987 2011-11-30 The bill eliminates limits on the number of green cards based on employment that is available annually to each country. Currently, 140,000 green cards are available each year for immigrants based on their job skills, with each country limited to 7 percent of those visas. Under the bill, after a three-year transition, all employment-based green cards will be issued on a first-come-first-served basis, with no country limits.

The legislation also includes a measure that will more than double the green cards based on family ties available for Mexicans and Filipinos, the two national groups facing the longest backlogs on the family side of the system. It raises the country limit for 226,000 family green cards each year to 15 percent from the current 7 percent.

The fix in the family visas helped to persuade Democrats like Mr. Gutierrez to sign on to the bill.

By far, the main beneficiaries will be highly skilled immigrants from India and China, including many with master’s degrees and doctorates in science and engineering. Because they come from populous countries that send many people to work here who have advanced science and technology skills, immigrants from those two nations had been forced by the country limits into lines that were many years long and growing much longer.

In most cases, Indians and Chinese who will now receive their permanent green cards more quickly have been working in the United States for years on temporary visas. The immigrants and their employers have passed labor market tests showing that qualified Americans were not available for jobs they hold.

“This legislation makes sense,” Mr. Smith said before the vote. “Why should American employers who seek green cards for skilled foreign workers have to wait longer just because the workers are from India or China?”

American technology companies have been clamoring for Congress to offer more green cards for their foreign employees, arguing that the United States was losing out in global competition by forcing those immigrants to leave.

Some countries will lose under the legislation. During the next three years, many more employment green cards will be set aside for Indians and Chinese than for others languishing in backlogs, particularly Filipinos and South Koreans.

And because the law would add no new visas, backlogs would be redistributed but not eliminated. The wait in the most severely clogged employment visa categories will even out over time to 12 years for all countries, said Stuart Anderson, executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, which conducts research on immigration.

Mr. Gutierrez said: “We need bigger fixes to our legal immigration system so that employers and families use official channels, not black-market ones. We want people to go through the system, not around it.”
988 2011-11-30 Striker Sergio Agüero came off the bench to score an 83rd-minute goal as Manchester City claimed a 1-0 win at Arsenal to advance to the League Cup semifinals. Craig Bellamy set up goals for Maxi Rodríguez and Martin Kelly as Liverpool scored a 2-0 victory at Chelsea. Cardiff, which plays in the second tier, reached the semifinals for the first time since 1966 by beating the Premier League team Blackburn, 2-0.

¶ Alexis Sánchez scored twice as Barcelona bounced back from its first loss of the season with a 4-0 victory over Rayo Vallecano in the Spanish league. A

¶ The former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi says he will return to his role as the president of A.C. Milan.
989 2011-11-30 The police in Suffolk County, Long Island, are seeking a court injunction this week that would prohibit alleged gang members from hanging out with one another in a designated “safety zone” — in this case, the commercial center of Wyandanch, a predominantly black and Hispanic hamlet beset by poverty and crime.

This constitutionally dubious tactic would allow officers to arrest any of 37 alleged members of the Bloods gang if they are seen together “standing, sitting, walking, driving, gathering or appearing anywhere in public view or any place accessible to the public,” whether or not they are doing anything wrong. Such “gang injunctions” have been used in California and other places; Suffolk would be the first county in New York to go down that road.

The county executive, Steve Levy, whose term ends next month, and the police commissioner, Richard Dormer, say the injunction is necessary to protect the community against a “public nuisance.” Gangs are a serious problem on Long Island, but the officials haven’t shown how an injunction would improve public safety or why existing laws are inadequate to combat gang violence.

As the New York Civil Liberties Union noted in a court brief, the county’s position relies on affidavits from county police officers and residents making generalized accusations about shady activities but offering no data on crime rates or the types of crimes committed in the “safety zone,” and making no claims that any of the defendants regularly enter the area to commit crimes. The group argues that the injunction infringes on basic constitutional rights to move and travel freely, and is “unconstitutionally vague” because it seeks to prohibit the men from “intimidating” others, a word so broad that it creates the real risk of arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.

Many cities, New York among them, have made significant inroads against gangs through community policing, school-based prevention programs and smart deployment of police resources. If Suffolk officials want to get the gang problem under control for the long run, they should try those approaches rather than resorting to a policing tactic that infringes on constitutional rights.
990 2011-11-30 Lu Qing, the wife of the dissident artist Ai Weiwei, was questioned by the Beijing police for more than three hours on Tuesday afternoon, said an assistant who was with her. The officers asked Ms. Lu about her company, Beijing Fake Cultural Development Ltd.; personal details; and a housing project the company designed in Inner Mongolia several years ago. On a police form, Ms. Lu was listed as a suspect rather than a witness, the assistant said. She was told not to leave Beijing. Mr. Ai, a frequent critic of the Communist Party, was detained for 81 days this year and faces charges of tax evasion.
991 2011-11-30 King Mohammed VI of Morocco appointed as prime minister on Tuesday the head of the moderate Islamist party that on Friday won the country’s first elections under a new constitution, the royal palace said. The king chose Abdellilah Benkirane, the general secretary of the Justice and Development Party, to form a coalition government. The new Constitution, drafted by the king in response to calls for more democracy inspired by the Arab Spring, still reserves important powers for the king, including over military and religious matters.
992 2011-11-30 With Pfizer’s plans to try to maintain brand loyalty for the next six months becoming public, industry analysts have raised the company’s earnings outlook by 2 to 4 percent, and now estimate that it could retain 40 percent of the market through next year. Pfizer officials declined to comment on that estimate.

Aiding its chances is a stumbling start-up by generic competitors. Ranbaxy Laboratories, the Indian subsidiary of the Japanese drug company Daiichi Sankyo, won the right to bring the first generic version to market. But Ranbaxy has disclosed it is under federal investigation. It has not yet received Food and Drug Administration approval. Ranbaxy’s president has said it will be ready by Thursday.

Watson Pharmaceuticals of Parsippany, N.J., is a second competitor with a generic version of the drug authorized and manufactured by Pfizer. But Watson has to give about 70 percent of its profits to Pfizer, according to the investment house Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. And Pfizer’s own deals are undercutting both Watson and Ranbaxy on price.

“Pfizer’s tactic of dressing up as a generics company is pulling the rug under the incentive system created to foster the development of generic drugs,” David A. Balto, a lawyer for some generic makers and a former policy director for the Federal Trade Commission, said Tuesday.

Pfizer’s strategy so far is limited to the first 180 days after Lipitor goes off patent. During that period, under law, generic competition is limited and the first entries have historically charged fairly high prices to recoup their costs. After the first six months, any company can enter the generic market, and prices plunge.

Although Ranbaxy and Watson have not yet announced their prices, one top Pfizer official said on Tuesday that its new discounts could be adjusted to beat any tit-for-tat reduction in the expected generic pricing.

“They are a set contract but they could change,” said David S. Simmons, president and general manager of Pfizer’s established products unit. “I mean, it’s at the discretion of two parties. They could change.”

Mr. Simmons said the intention of Pfizer’s discount was to keep Lipitor “at or below generics’ cost to the health care system.”

The discount is also extending to many Medicare prescription drug plans that will dispense Lipitor even if patients ask for generics, according to a memo released by an advocacy group called Pharmacists United for Truth and Transparency.

The memo, from CVS/Caremark, a pharmacy benefit management company, and dated Monday, notified pharmacies that the generic form of Lipitor would not be covered for 29 prescription drug plans it managed for Medicare Part D. Instead, any prescription claims for generic atorvastatin will be rejected with a notice saying: “Brand Lipitor will pay at generic co-pay.”

The company’s memo did not disclose the financial terms.

The government may receive the rebates that drug manufacturers pay to benefit managers and insurers if they are fully disclosed and characterized as rebates, not fees, according to a March report by the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services. But benefit managers’ records may not be accessible or auditable, it added.

Express Scripts, another large pharmacy benefit manager, is recommending that its clients not accept Pfizer’s deals under the reasoning that it could cost more in the long run, according to F. Everett Neville, vice president for pharmaceutical strategy. “They’re 180-day deals but no one knows what the price of the generic may be if they lower their prices in a month or two,” he said.

Medco Health Solutions, another giant benefit manager, is also recommending that customers switch to the generic version of Lipitor. Medco is sending faxes to tens of thousands of physicians and letters to some of the million people who buy Lipitor through the company, saying they should use generic atorvastatin to save money, said Timothy C. Wentworth, Medco’s group president for employer and key accounts.

At the same time, both Express Scripts and Medco say their own mail-order services will use Lipitor as a “house generic” because Pfizer has guaranteed to match the price and assured a supply.

With mail order increasingly dominant — accounting for an estimated 30 percent of Lipitor sales — those deals are important. Timothy Anderson of Bernstein Research estimated that Pfizer would maintain 90 percent of the mail order market.

Aetna is not taking Pfizer’s offer. “We decided not to participate in the rebate program because it doesn’t support our generic-first philosophy,” an Aetna spokesman, Matt Wiggin, said.

Kevin Hooks, managing partner of the Virtuous Group, a benefits consultant in Las Vegas, also said: “We don’t know what the generic is going to be priced yet. He added, “Right now we think it’ll be a better deal for members to get Lipitor for the first six months, with discount, and then kill the deals.”

Consumers will certainly benefit from generic prices. And Pfizer is making sure of that with a program called Lipitor for You, offering the $4 co-payment card and direct delivery of Lipitor. The program is limited to privately insured people, though, because government programs like Medicare say such discounts could violate antikickback laws and lead to higher health spending.

It’s unclear how taxpayers will fare through the Medicare Part D drug benefits program, administered by private companies. Tony Salters, a spokesman for Medicare, said he could not comment.

Christine K. Cramer, a spokeswoman for CVS/Caremark, said its drug plans had already included the Lipitor rebates in its 2012 Medicare bids, thus lowering premiums for the government and Lipitor users.

Even at the lower price, Pfizer has a huge margin because of the relatively low cost of materials for Lipitor, Bernstein Research estimated. Pfizer, the benefit managers and some insurers insist all of the new discount will be passed along to consumers, companies and other payers.

“Who knows who it’s good for?” said Dr. John Santa, director of health ratings for the independent nonprofit Consumer Reports. With all the companies involved, “and they say consumers are going to be good here, I’d be skeptical,” he added.

Adam J. Fein, a pharmaceutical consultant and blogger, said: “It’s kind of a forerunner of what’s going to happen over the next two years as everyone battles for the incremental profit in the generic wave.” He added: “You have over $80 billion in drugs that are going to go generic. Say $80 billion settles to $10 billion eventually. That’s $70 billion savings. But during that period going from 80 to 10 there’s going to be a lot of money made by the various channel intermediaries, and they all want a piece of that pie.”
993 2011-11-30 Many cider makers will tell you it takes several kinds of apples for a well-balanced drink. But the Oregon producer Original Sin, where Gidon Coll has been making blended ciders, has an outstanding new one made from a single heirloom varietal, the Newtown Pippin. This hard cider, pressed from an apple with historic roots in the New York region, has a Champagne delicacy and refreshing acidity that make it a fine aperitif or mealtime quaff. In a different style, the rosy Cherry Tree Hard Cider, Mr. Coll used a mixture of apples blended with tart cherries, creating a mellow drink that can handle charcuterie or dessert.

Original Sin Newtown Pippin Hard Cider and Cherry Tree Hard Cider cost about $12 for 750 milliliters at the Good Beer Store and Whole Foods, both in the East Village, and Spuyten Duyvil Grocery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.

Correction: December 7, 2011 

 A report in the Food Stuff column last Wednesday about Original Sin Newtown Pippin Hard Cider misidentified the location where it is made. It is produced in Oregon — not at the company’s orchards in the Hudson Valley. The report also misidentified the state of origin for the cherries used in Original Sin’s Cherry Tree Hard Cider. They are grown in Oregon, not in New York.
994 2011-11-30 A bright, modern, uptown branch of Pecan, a cafe whose TriBeCa parent has a homier personality, has joined a spate of new restaurants and food shops that have opened or soon will open on the Upper West Side. Coffee and breakfast items start things rolling, followed by sandwiches, salads and soups, including several vegetarian choices, like a roasted sweet potato sandwich and a black lentil salad. Delivery is not available yet, but for now takeout is a fine option. Wine and beer are also coming. And if you opt to drink your well-made coffee at one of the long white tables, a barista (like Ricardo Palma, above, who is also a cook) will serve it in china.

Pecan, 387 Amsterdam Avenue (79th Street); (212) 580-1719. Sandwiches, $7.95 to $8.50; salads, $5.07 to $8.85. For the menu: pecancafeny.com.
995 2011-11-30 , the chief executive of Facebook, conceded in a lengthy blog post that the company had made “a bunch of mistakes,” but said it had already fixed several of the issues cited by the commission.

“Facebook has always been committed to being transparent about the information you have stored with us — and we have led the Internet in building tools to give people the ability to see and control what they share,” he wrote. By way of example, Mr. Zuckerberg pointed to more explicit privacy controls that the company introduced over the summer.

Facebook has long wanted its users to post content — links, opinions, pictures and other data — on their Facebook pages with minimal effort, or “friction,” as company executives call it. The settlement with the F.T.C. will undoubtedly require it to introduce more such friction.

The order requires Facebook to obtain its users’ “affirmative express consent” before it can override their own privacy settings. For example, if a user designated certain content to be visible only to “friends,” Facebook could allow that content to be shared more broadly only after obtaining the user’s permission.

On Tuesday evening there seemed to be some disagreement about what the agreement entailed. A Facebook spokesman said in response to a question that it did not require the company to obtain “opt in” data-sharing permission for new products.

But David Vladeck, director of the bureau of consumer protection at the F.T.C., said Facebook would have to inform its users about how personal data would be shared even with new products and services that it introduces over the next two decades. “The order is designed to protect people’s privacy, anticipating that Facebook is likely to change products and services it offers,” he said.

Ever since its public release in 2004, Facebook has drawn an ever-larger number of members, even as its sometimes aggressive approach to changes around privacy have angered some of its users.

“We’ve all known that Facebook repeatedly cuts corners when it comes to its privacy promises,” Eric Goldman, a law professor at Santa Clara University, wrote in an e-mail after the announcement. “Like most Internet companies, they thought they could get away with it. They didn’t.”

Facebook is also obliged to undergo an independent privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years, according to the terms of the settlement.

Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, which is part of a coalition of consumer groups that filed a complaint with the F.T.C., commended the order but said settlements with individual companies fall short of what is needed: a federal law to protect consumer privacy.

“We hope they will establish a high bar for privacy protection,” Mr. Rotenberg said. “But we do not have in the a comprehensive privacy framework. There is always a risk other companies will come along and create new problems.”

Several privacy bills are pending in Congress, and Internet companies have stepped up their lobbying efforts. The F.T.C., meanwhile, has ratcheted up its scrutiny of Internet companies. This year alone, it has reached settlement orders with some of the giants of Silicon Valley, including .

The order comes amid growing speculation about Facebook’s preparations for an initial public offering, which could be valued at more than $100 billion. The settlement with the F.T.C., analysts say, could potentially ease investors’ concerns about government regulation by holding the company to a clear set of privacy .

“When you have an I.P.O. you don’t want investors to be skeptical or jittery,” said Ryan Calo, who leads privacy research at the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School. “In order for you to be as valuable as possible, you want to make sure the seas are calm. This calms the seas.”
996 2011-11-30 American home prices fell in most major cities in September after posting small gains over the summer and spring, the latest evidence that the troubled housing market won’t recover any time soon.

The Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller index released Tuesday showed that prices dropped from August in 17 of the 20 cities tracked. That was the first decline after five straight months in which at least half the cities in the survey showed gains.

The index for the July-September quarter showed prices were mostly unchanged from the previous quarter.

Separately, the Conference Board said Tuesday that its consumer confidence index rose 15 points in November to 56.0, up from a revised 40.9 points in October.

The November reading was the highest level since July, while the October number was the lowest level since the recession ended more than two years ago, the private research group said.

The 15-point increase was the biggest jump since May 2009.

David M. Blitzer, chairman of S.& P.’s index committee, said that while the steep declines in home prices of the period between 2007 and 2009 appeared to be over, prices were down from the same time last year and did not show signs of easing.
997 2011-11-30 “I think the E.F.S.F. alone will not be able to solve all the problems,” Mr. Frieden said.

“We have to do so together with the I.M.F. and with the E.C.B., within the framework of its independence,” he said, referring to the European Central Bank.

The six hours of talks here highlighted the contrast between Europe’s tortuous decision-making and the breakneck speed with which financial markets have been pushing the currency zone toward a moment of truth.

While proposals have been working their way through Europe’s convoluted procedures, risks have grown that the debt crisis will plunge Europe into a steep recession or lead to a fragmentation of the currency union.

On Tuesday, the borrowing costs of Italy, the euro zone’s third-largest economy after Germany and France, reached nearly 8 percent, a record since the inception of the common currency in 1999. After the discussions late Tuesday, Olli Rehn, European commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said that because of the economic slowdown, there would have to be tougher measures if Italy was to reach its financial goals.

Mr. Juncker said the ministers would explore “further options” to leverage the bailout fund.

A month after European Union leaders announced a plan to resolve the crisis, most of those decisions have either been delayed or overtaken by events, said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at the Bruegel economic research institute in Brussels. Plans to increase the power of the bailout fund, were now “too little too late,” Mr. Véron said, adding that Europe’s policy errors were caused by a “systemic failure of our institutional framework.”

France and Germany said they planned to break the downward spiral by outlining a new push toward a fiscal union, with stricter rules against budget “sinners,” before a meeting of leaders next week in Brussels.

The details of how these ideas will be pushed through remain highly uncertain, but Mr. Juncker said that discussions on tightening the rules would include the possibility of changing the European Union’s governing treaty — a slow and cumbersome process.

Germany is determined to toughen the euro zone rules significantly before it contemplates any additional far-reaching changes to help shore up the currency. So far, Berlin has resisted both greater intervention by the European Central Bank, which might stoke inflation, as well as the short-term introduction of common euro zone bonds.

Some officials hope that agreement in principle on new fiscal rules can encourage the central bank to intervene more actively to help Italy and Spain without risking criticism from Berlin. In recent days, senior figures in Austria, Finland and the Netherlands have declined to rule out an enhanced role for the bank.

The latest discussions illustrate the time it takes to impose decisions in Europe. Plans to expand the bailout fund, and allow it more freedom, were agreed to in July, and a decision was made in October to leverage its power to around 1 trillion euros. The decision on whether to release an international loan of 8 billion euros to Greece was also made in October, but carrying that out was held up when the former Greek prime minister, George A. Papandreou, suggested holding a referendum on the bailout package. The idea was later scrapped, and Mr. Papandreou resigned.

The finance ministers agreed Tuesday to release that 8 billion-euro installment, said an official who requested anonymity because an announcement had not yet been made. The money, part of the initial 110 billion-euro bailout extended to Greece last year, also must be approved by the International Monetary Fund.

Bank recapitalization, the third pillar of the October meeting, was not a main area of discussion on Tuesday, but there are worries that this requirement may impose burdens on banks that make them less likely to lend.
998 2011-11-30 Both have repeatedly denied the allegations, and neither has yet been charged.

Nothing that Mr. McMullan said was particularly surprising; anyone following the phone hacking scandal that engulfed News International and its parent, the , over the summer is now more than familiar with outrageous tales of tabloid malfeasance. What was startling was that Mr. McMullan, who left his job in 2001, eagerly confessed to so much and on such a scale — no one else has done it quite this way — and that he maintained that none of it was wrong.

Most people from the tabloid world have reacted to the revelations in the manner of when discussing in saying they are “shocked, shocked.” But Mr. McMullan veered so far in the other direction that at times he sounded like a satirist’s rendition of an amoral tabloid hack.

Underhanded reporting techniques are not shocking at all, he said, particularly in light of how often he and his colleagues risked their lives in search of the truth.

As examples of the dangers of his job, he described having cocaine-laced forced on him by knife-wielding drug dealers in a sting operation; being attacked by a crowd of murderous asylum seekers; and, in his “Brad the teenage rent boy” guise, sprinting through a convent dressed only in underpants to escape the pedophile priest he had successfully entrapped.

“Phone hacking is a perfectly acceptable tool, given the sacrifices we make, if all we’re trying to do is get to the truth,” Mr. McMullan said, asking whether “we really want to live in a world where the only people who can do the hacking are MI5 and .”

No, he said, we do not.

“For a brief period of about 20 years, we have actually lived in a free society where we can hack back,” he said.

Journalists in Britain have traditionally justified shady practices by arguing that they are in “the public interest.” Asked by an inquiry lawyer how he would define that, Mr. McMullan said that the public interest is what the public is interested in.

“I think the public is clever enough to decide the ethics of what it wants in its own newspapers,” he said. Referring to articles about Charlotte Church, a singer who told the inquiry this week of her distress at her family’s treatment by the tabloids, he said, “If they don’t like what you have written about Charlotte Church’s father having a three-in-a-bed with cocaine, then they won’t read it.”

For all that, Mr. McMullan said that The News of the World had come to rely too much on outsiders to do work that could have easily been done by reporters, like conducting surveillance on potentially adulterous athletes. Also, he said, some of the investigators were incompetent.

The year he became deputy features editor, he said, the department had a budget of £ 3.1 million — more than $4.5 million — to pay sources, buy stories and hire outsiders to find addresses, medical records and other information. “That was the joy of working for Murdoch,” he said. “They had that big pot of money.”

Mr. McMullan, who now owns a pub and does occasional freelance work, spoke nostalgically of his tabloid career, seven years of it spent at The News of the World. He loved spiriting exclusive sources away “and hiding them from other journalists,” he said, as when he “spent two weeks locked in a hotel room with ’s gym instructor in .”

He also liked jumping in one of The News of the World’s stable of 12 cars and speeding away in pursuit of famous targets.

“I absolutely loved giving chase to celebrities,” he said. “How many jobs can you have car chases in? Before Diana died, it was such good fun.” (Some celebrities liked it, too, he said. “had a very positive attitude” about being pursued by crazed journalists in cars.)

Mr. McMullan had brought along some illustrative materials, including a photograph of his surveillance van. He also briefly displayed a topless photograph of in The News of the World, apparently as a way to show how easy it is to obtain racy photographs.

“That’s the president of ’s wife,” he said.

“It’s a little early in the day for that, Mr. McMullan,” the inquiry lawyer said.

Many witnesses at the Leveson Inquiry, especially victims of the tabloids, have called for a law to protect citizens from news media intrusion. Mr. McMullan said he thought that privacy was “evil,” in that it helps criminals cover up their misdeeds.

Using a Britishism for “pedophile,” he said, “Privacy is for pedos.”
999 2011-11-30 After resisting for a decade, the parent company of American Airlines announced Tuesday that it would now follow a strategy that the rest of the industry chose long ago: filing for bankruptcy protection so it can shed debt, cut labor costs and fin...
1000 2011-11-30 In a rare show of bipartisan comity on the angrily contested issue of immigration, the House of Representatives on Tuesday passed a bill that tweaks the visa system to allow more highly skilled immigrants from India and China to become legal perma...
1001 2011-11-30 McCORMICK--William J.,age 78, formerly of Kings Park, NY, on November 27, 2011. Survived by his brother, John McCormick; son, Terence; and daughters Lauren and Jennifer. He will be missed by many. Visitation Wednesday and Thursday from 2-5 and 7-9...