1 2008-07-01 The audit found that the Police Department “exhibited disturbingly poor controls over weapons in its custody — with many of them initially missing.”...
2 2008-07-01 A 90-year-old man was listed in critical condition after he was attacked by dogs outside a house on Staten Island, the police said....
3 2008-07-01 Starting a business after being laid off is one way to bounce back. But what about the legal obligations to a former employer?...
4 2008-07-01 Senator John McCain stepped up his criticism of Senator Barack Obama, saying the presumptive Democratic nominee should break ties with Gen. Wesley Clark....
5 2008-07-01 The former secretary of state has been talking with both candidates about foreign policy, but everyone is mum on what other topics may have been broached....
6 2008-07-01 More than 130 athletes have signed an open letter asking the international community to pressure Sudan for a truce during the Olympics, the activist organization Team Darfur announced at a news conference in Washington on Tuesday....
7 2008-07-01 CNBC interviews Richard A. Grasso, former chief of the New York Stock Exchange, on the dismissal of remaining legal claims on his compensation.
8 2008-07-01 "It's not 'Soylent Green' again, but the old Hollywood sense of lawless New York is rearing its ugly head," writes Julia Vitullo-Martin of the Manhattan Institute. She cites a new tolerance of "quality of life" violations like graffiti; recent upt...
9 2008-07-01 While the two candidates disagreed with last week's Supreme Court decision on the death penalty, they diverged on their views of the court's composition....
10 2008-07-01 Who's going where as restricted and unrestricted free agents hit the marketplace at noon on Tuesday....
11 2008-07-01 Does Obama's courting of evangelicals have an additional agenda?...
12 2008-07-01 The pain in the financial industry has rocked the markets and stung shareholders - and some prominent names on Wall Street are suggesting that a well-intentioned accounting rule may be partly to blame. This group includes Stephen Schwarzman, the c...
13 2008-07-01 General Electric's property investment arm said on Tuesdy that it has bought a portfolio of loans from Credit Suisse for 642 million euros ($1.01 billion). GE Real Estate said it had acquired a portfolio of 10 loans on a range of properties in Ger...
14 2008-07-01 CIT Group, which has reported four consecutive quarterly losses, said Tuesday it will sell its home-lending businesses to Lone Star Funds for $1.5 billion in cash and the assumption of $4.4 billion in debt. In a separate transaction, CIT agreed to...
15 2008-07-01 BCE will defer its 294 million Canadian dollar ($290 million) second-quarter payout to investors as it attempts to make its $52 billion takeover more palatable to a group of lenders that are seeking more favorable terms on the deal's financing, Th...
16 2008-07-01 Jefferies has hired former Barclays Capital director Andrew Bracey to lead the group's consumer and retail investment banking division in Europe and the Far East, The Telegraph reported. Mr. Bracey previously worked at Credit Suisse and UBS. Jeffe...
17 2008-07-01 During a panel presented recently at the National Performing Arts Convention in Denver, the American Music Center and the American Composers Forum reported preliminary findings from “Taking Note,” a survey of American composers. The study was undertaken to help those organizations better serve their constituencies. According to its findings, the average American composer is a highly educated 45-year-old white male.

That revelation might not seem especially surprising: the history of classical music has long been portrayed as a chronology of great men, mostly white and European. But women have written music since antiquity, and they steadily grew in prominence during the 20th century. Anyone who regularly attends new-music concerts can attest that female composers are increasingly well represented. At conservatories, by some reports, perhaps half the composition students are women.

Plenty remains to be done before parity is achieved. But in a concert by the NeoLit Ensemble at Bargemusic on Friday night, it was refreshing to encounter a slate of works by seven female composers, presented without any hint of corrective polemic. The ensemble — Amelia Lukas, flutist; Victoria Bass, cellist; and Katya Mihailova, pianist — was making its debut. The event was part of Bargemusic’s Here and Now series, which celebrates contemporary American music, no further qualifiers attached.

The worthiness of these composers, in other words, was a given. Two of them, Chen Yi and Shulamit Ran, are among America’s most widely recognized creators. The concert began with Ms. Chen’s “Night Thoughts,” a spare evocation of a Tang dynasty poem.

Ms. Lukas played tones that bent, swirled and fluttered, accompanied by plucked glissandos on cello and icy piano figures. Midway through, the flute offered a nostalgic melody, which gradually dissolved back into general murmurings. The writhing aggression of Ms. Ran’s “East Wind,” for solo flute, similarly surrounded a poignant theme.

In these works, and many others on the program, sex seemed less important than ethnicity: Ms. Chen is originally from China, Ms. Ran from Israel, and each called on musical aspects of her heritage. Hilary Tann, born in Wales, evoked that country’s hymns in “Llef,” for flute and cello. (The flute part, originally for Japanese shakuhachi, had many of that instrument’s trademark gestures.) Two sections from “Cuatro Bosquejos Pre-Incaicos” by Gabriela Lena Frank, whose roots are Lithuanian, Chinese and Peruvian, vividly imagined the throbbing flute and gusty panpipes of Peru’s pre-Incan cultures.

In "Cover," by Belinda Reynolds, vaporous tendrils of melody slowly curled over constantly shifting rhythms. Composers in their mid-20s were responsible for the evening’s most conventional sounds. Katerina Kramarchuk’s “Epilogue” paid homage to Shostakovich with melancholy cello melodies, brusque piano fanfares and a recurrent four-note theme that seemed to say, “SHOS-ta-KO-vich.”
18 2008-07-01 Several passengers pored over a glossy brochure that explained the changes in both English and Spanish. Among them was Caroline Rodriguez, 18, a shop cashier who lives in the Bronx and works in Manhattan.

“You put your money in a machine on the sidewalk instead of in the bus,” Ms. Rodriguez said. “It’s just weird.”

A moment later, she allowed that the system would probably seem less confusing after a few trips and added: “If it gets you faster to your destination, then it’s definitely worth it.”

Elliot G. Sander, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s chief executive, praised the new Select Bus Service and suggested that it was bringing some deserved limelight to a mode of transportation that many take for granted, even though it moves 2.5 million riders per day.

“Our bus system is something like a sleeping giant,” he said. “For so many years it has been in the shadows. Well, no more.”

Not everyone in the borough shared Mr. Sander’s enthusiasm. A handful of business owners said they were disenchanted because they felt the removal of parking spaces to accommodate special bus lanes would hurt their incomes.

For instance, Frank Rodriguez, the owner of Audio Maxx, which he said has sold and installed car stereos for nine years on East Fordham Road, said that his business depended on auto traffic.

“Now people can’t park down there and shop,” he said.

Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the Department of Transportation, said that before creating the special bus lanes, the agency had conferred with the local community board and business improvement district, and that the loss of parking spots on East Fordham Road would be partly offset by some new spaces on nearby streets.

At one point on Monday, the bus paused in Inwood before starting a return trip to the Bronx. The driver, Raul Rivera, 34, said that he expected the new way of paying to cut down on the amount of time it took people to board.

Often, he said, drivers might have to wait for four or five minutes at a bus stop, while lines of riders swiped several MetroCards with insufficient funds or went through their wallets, digging for a fare coin by coin.

“Now it’ll be a minute at most,” he said. “Both doors open, everyone gets on and I take off.”

One of the first to get on for the trip back to the Bronx was Priscilla Donnelly, who told Mr. Rivera she wanted to go to Fordham Road to look at sewing machines. He told her how to pay her fare and she climbed aboard, holding her receipt and looking dubious.

But as the bus crossed over the Harlem River and she watched others boarding and listened to Mr. Rivera give lengthy explanations of the plan in English and Spanish, Ms. Donnelly began to propose moderations and improvements.

“Maybe they could have a big sign,” she said, suggesting that Mr. Rivera might quickly tire of repeating himself.

By the time the bus reached University Avenue, Ms. Donnelly had joined the chorus of newly knowledgeable passengers who were shouting advice and directions to those not yet indoctrinated, who still ascended the bus steps, MetroCards in hand.

“This is fun,” she said.
19 2008-07-01 On Tuesday, the latest salvo lands in the pitched battle between Nikon and Canon for the hearts, minds and wallets of serious photographers.

Nikon’s D700, priced at $2,995, packs the considerable abilities of the company’s hefty $5,000 flagship, the D3, into a more svelte 2.2-pound device. It doesn’t skimp on specifications, using the same 12.1-megapixel sensor and processing electronics, similar weather-gasket sealing and a magnesium frame.

Both of these digital single-lens reflex cameras employ “full frame” sensors that are the size of 35-millimeter film, letting a wide-angle lens really see a broad view. Larger sensors are also more sensitive. The cameras shoot low-grain, colorful, sharp pictures at a light sensitivity setting of ISO 6,400, and they can operate at up to ISO 25,600 with less impressive results.

The D700 will compete most directly with the aging Canon 5D. It lacks a few features that are found in the more expensive D3, including a bigger, longer-lasting battery, an extra memory card slot and a faster frame rate. But it adds a mechanism to shake dust from the sensor and the welcome convenience of a built-in flash. MARTY KATZ
20 2008-07-01 The two-time Masters champion José María Olazábal failed to qualify for the British Open when he bogeyed the third hole of a playoff in Sunningdale, England. Darren Clarke also failed to qualify at the 36-hole qualifier for European Tour players.

In Dearborn, Mich., the former P.G.A. Championship winners Davis Love III and Rich Beem qualified for the Open, which is July 17-20.
21 2008-07-01 Gov. Matt Blunt signed a bill outlawing cyberbullying in a ceremony just miles from where a 13-year-old girl committed suicide nearly two years ago after being harassed on the Internet. The bill updates state laws against harassment by removing the requirement that the communication be written or over a telephone. Supporters say the bill now covers harassment from computers, text messages and other electronic devices. The teenager, Megan Meier of O’Fallon, killed herself shortly after receiving mean-spirited messages on MySpace from “Josh.” Lori Drew, 49, is accused of creating the MySpace profile for “Josh” and has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and gaining access to computers without authorization. (AP)
22 2008-07-01 Thomas O. Hicks and the Blackstone Group, two big names in the leveraged buyout business, have struck a deal involving a popular investment vehicle known as a Spac.

The asset in question, a plastic container company called Graham Packaging Holdings, is not the flashiest of businesses, but the transaction is notable because it will allow Blackstone partly to exit an investment that it has held for 10 years — an unusually long time in the private equity world.

Mr. Hicks, who owns the Texas Rangers professional baseball team, is making this deal through his Spac, which stands for special purpose acquisition company. In recent years, prominent deal makers like Mr. Hicks, Nelson Peltz and Ronald O. Perelman have sponsored Spacs, whose sole mission is to find and acquire a company in a set period of time. If they do not, they must return investors’ money. (Mr. Hicks’s Spac, Hicks Acquisition Company I, had until Sept. 28, 2009, to strike a deal.)

According to a news release, Mr. Hicks’s Spac will take control of 66 percent of Graham Packaging’s common stock, and the company will seek to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The deal has an overall value of $3.2 billion, the release said.

Mr. Hicks’s Spac raised $552 million when it went public in October. It is one of dozens of Spacs that have raised billions of dollars to do deals in the last few years. In a news release, Mr. Hicks said his firm considered “more than a hundred possible transactions” before settling on this one.

Graham Packaging makes containers for consumer products like beverages, yogurt and laundry detergent. Blackstone took control of the company through a leveraged recapitalization in 1998, and then doubled the size of the company when it acquired the plastics unit of Owens-Illinois in 2004, regulatory filings show.

According to the terms of the agreement in principle, Hicks Acquisition’s current shareholders will own about 66 percent of the newly public company, while Blackstone and other current Graham equity holders will own the rest. Blackstone has agreed to retain its stake in the company for at least two years.
23 2008-07-01 The Dow and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index were little changed on Monday on the final trading day of the second quarter as record oil prices lifted energy shares, offsetting weak financial stocks amid concerns of further credit losses.

The Dow and S.& P. posted their worst one-month declines since September 2002. The Dow also suffered its worst first half since 1970.

The Nasdaq ended the session lower, hurt by a drop in the shares of Yahoo as it battles with shareholders after takeover talks with Microsoft fell apart.

Shares of Exxon Mobil and Chevron lent support to the Dow and the S.& P. 500. Oil rose to another record on rising Israeli-Iranian tensions, but then pulled back to trade slightly lower.

Financial shares fell on more negative analyst comments. Richard Bove of Ladenburg Thalmann said Merrill Lynch would be forced to raise equity in the third quarter and might sell 20 percent of its holdings in Bloomberg for $1 billion. Mr. Bove also cut his 2008 and 2009 earnings estimates for Morgan Stanley.
24 2008-07-01 MOSCOW — Hackers attacked about 300 Web sites in Lithuania over the weekend, defacing them with Soviet symbols and anti-Lithuanian slogans, officials said Monday.

The Web sites were vandalized two weeks after Lithuania, a former Soviet republic, outlawed the display of Soviet symbols, a ban that touched off new tensions with Russia. Lithuanian officials did not directly accuse Russian hackers of initiating the attacks, but said they had come from foreign computers and were most likely related to the ban.

Last year, Web sites in Estonia, another Baltic nation and former Soviet republic that has rocky relations with Russia, were bombarded with attacks after Estonian officials removed a statue of a Red Army soldier from the center of the capital, Tallinn, provoking violent disturbances.

Russia and the Baltic nations have had frequent rifts stemming from different interpretations of events in World War II. While Russia says the Soviet Union liberated Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania from Nazi rule, the Baltic nations view Moscow as an invader and occupier. Some Estonian officials contend that Russia was behind last year’s Internet attacks, but the Kremlin has said it had no role in them.

Over the weekend in Lithuania, Web sites of government agencies, political parties and businesses were defaced with the hammer-and-sickle symbol and five-pointed stars, as well as derisive and profane anti-Lithuanian slogans, said Rytis Rainys, a Lithuanian official.
25 2008-07-01 Three years ago, Americans discovered that the vicissitudes of the weather could have a powerful effect on energy prices when two struck the Gulf Coast. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita interrupted a quarter of the nation’s oil production and closed dozens of refineries for weeks. Lines formed for the first time since the 1970s as gasoline spiked above $3 a gallon, a record at the time. The nation’s increasing dependence on crops for motor fuel adds another level of vulnerability from the weather.

It is still too early to estimate damage to corn crops from the recent floods, or their impact on ethanol output. Iowa, the biggest corn state, may have lost as much as 10 percent of its harvest, according to preliminary estimates.

But concerns that the floods could tighten corn supplies this year have pushed up both corn and ethanol prices. Ethanol, which was already rising before the floods, has nearly doubled from its low of $1.50 a gallon in September.

Unexpected interruptions in oil supplies have been a factor driving oil prices above $140 a barrel lately. Given the tight oil market, there is little untapped capacity that can be brought online to make up for sudden supply interruptions, whether of oil itself or of the that are increasingly substituting for oil.

In the 1980s, the oil capacity cushion peaked at around 20 percent of global consumption. Today, it represents only about 2 percent — less than ’s petroleum exports. Analysts have warned that such record-low levels of spare capacity pose unprecedented risks to the stability of oil markets and introduce a significant premium in the price of oil.

“There is now a vulnerability to perfect storms, not just in a metaphorical sense, but increasingly in a literal sense,” said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. “In addition to geopolitical risks, you must now add weather risks.”

While storms, torrential rains and hurricanes have always been a part of energy production, the areas where most of the nation’s new oil and ethanol supplies are coming from — the corn belt and the Gulf of Mexico — are especially vulnerable to hazardous weather.

“Our energy policy is like playing Russian roulette with every chamber loaded,” said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an energy analyst at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, a group backed by the oil industry. “We’ve doubled up on the weather risk.”

Both the government and the ethanol industry recognize the risks of tying fuels to crops. The secretaries of energy and agriculture, in a joint letter to the Senate, recently said: “If we assumed a supply disruption of ethanol, we would expect a fairly large increase in the price of gasoline until ethanol supply were re-established or new market equilibriums were achieved.”

Backers of biofuels contend that growing ethanol supply is keeping gasoline prices from rising even higher than they have, by anywhere from 35 cents to 50 cents a gallon, in their estimation. They also point out that the government’s ethanol mandate, which requires oil companies to blend ethanol into motor fuel, can be suspended in an emergency. Finally, they say that future ethanol supplies will be derived from materials like switchgrass or wood chips that are resistant to bad weather.

Bob Dinneen, the president of the Renewable Fuels Association, the industry’s main trade group, said only two out of 160 ethanol refineries nationwide shut down because of the storms. Both will reopen soon, he said.

“There is a lot of overblown concern that is not really justified by the facts on the ground,” Mr. Dinneen said. “Certainly the weather is going to have an impact on all sorts of industries. It had an impact when Katrina wreaked havoc on the refining industry. It has an impact on ethanol production, but it has been minimal.”

In recent years, corn ethanol has been one of the few sources of supply growth in transport fuels. Indeed, biofuels have become the single biggest source of new fuels produced outside of countries belonging to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.

Production worldwide is expected to grow by 330,000 barrels a day this year, to 1.4 million barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency.

In the , bipartisan public policies have driven the rise of the ethanol industry. Congress has set rising requirements for oil companies to blend ethanol with gasoline, backed with generous subsidies that should total $12 billion this year, according to estimates by Capital.

The ethanol mandate is set at nine billion gallons for 2008 and is scheduled to rise to 36 billion gallons a year by 2022. By various estimates, that would represent 20 to 25 percent of the nation’s gasoline consumption by then.

Corn ethanol is capped at 15 billion gallons from 2015 onward. The rest is supposed to come from advanced biofuels. They would not require food crops, but bringing them to market depends on perfecting techniques that are still experimental.

Farmers who support the government’s ethanol policy argue that truly disastrous weather in the corn belt does not happen often.

“The last time we had real weather problems in the corn belt was 1988,” said Tom Buis, the president of the National Farmers Union. “That’s pretty rare.”

Emerson D. Nafziger, a professor of agronomy at the , said farmers still had time to recover this year, to some degree. But he said this year’s storms were the first real test for the nascent ethanol industry.

“We may end up feeling we dodged a bullet this year,” he said. “We’ve had a run of fairly favorable weather in recent years. But there is no guarantee it will stay that way.”
26 2008-07-01 Citing concerns about racial sensibilities, officials of the Wilmette Park District in suburban Chicago have canceled a production of “Ragtime” set to open on July 10. According to a report on Playbill.com, The Pioneer Press, a Wilmette newspaper, reported that the Wilmette Park executive director, Tom Grisamore, canceled the show out of concern that passers-by on the park grounds would be offended by a racial epithet for blacks that is used several times in the script and in the score. “Ragtime,” an award-winning 1998 Broadway musical, is based on the novel by E. L. Doctorow. It tells the stories of three different groups that come together in 1906, and includes an exploration of racism. Playbill.com reported that a June 17 letter to the show’s licensing agent, Music Theater International, asked for changes in the script and included suggestions from Robert Bierie, performing arts supervisor of the Wilmette Park District. “I find this sad and also hilarious,” Lynn Ahrens, who wrote the lyrics for the show, told Playbill.com. “It seems to sum up the blind ignorance of people who sit busily cherry-picking bad words, while not even bothering to read the script they are producing to understand its ideas or the context in which these words are spoken.”
27 2008-07-01 Mr. Jakob, 36, is now the subject of a criminal investigation by federal authorities, and is likely to face charges related to impersonating a law enforcement officer, his lawyer said.

The strange adventures of Sergeant Bill have led to the firing of three of the town’s five police officers, left the outcome of a string of drug arrests in doubt, prompted multimillion-dollar federal civil rights lawsuits by at least 17 plaintiffs and stirred up a political battle, including a petition seeking the impeachment of Mr. Schulte, over who is to blame for the mess.

And the questions keep coming. How did Mr. Jakob wander into town and apparently leave the mayor, the aldermen and pretty much everyone else he met thinking that he was a federal agent delivered from Washington to help barrel into peoples’ homes and clean up Gerald’s drug problem? And why would anyone — receiving no pay and with no known connection to little Gerald, 70 miles from St. Louis and not even a county seat — want to carry off such a time-consuming ruse in the first place?

Mr. Jakob’s lawyer, Joel Schwartz, said that what happened in Gerald was never a sinister plot, but a chain of events rooted in “errors in judgment.” Mr. Schwartz said he believed that at least three Gerald police officers, including the chief, knew that Mr. Jakob was not a federal drug agent or even a certified police officer.

“It was an innocent evolution, where he helped with one minor thing, then one more on top of that, and all of the sudden, everyone thought he was a federal agent,” Mr. Schwartz said. “I’m not saying this was legal or lawful. But look, they were very, very effective while he was present. I don’t think Gerald is having the drug problem they were having. I’ve heard from some residents who were thrilled that he was there.”

There were numerous arrests during Mr. Jakob’s time in Gerald (the exact number is uncertain, local law enforcement officials said, as legal action surrounding the case proceeds), but Mayor Schulte said that Mr. Jakob had, in fact, gone to elaborate lengths to deceive local authorities, including Ryan McCrary, then the police chief, into believing that he was a federal agent — with the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Marshal’s Service or some other federal agency.

In addition to having a badge and a car that seemed to scream law enforcement, Mr. Jakob offered federal drug enforcement help, Mr. Schulte said, (a notion local officials said must have somehow grown out of their recent application for a federal grant for radio equipment) and asked Chief McCrary to call what he said was his supervisor’s telephone number to confirm Gerald’s need for his help.

When the call was placed, a woman — whose identity is unknown — answered with the words “multijurisdictional task force,” and said that the city’s request for federal services was under review, the mayor said. Mr. Schulte said he now suspects that Mr. Jakob adapted the nonexistent task force name from the “Beverly Hills Cop” movies starring Eddie Murphy.

“Not only were these officers taken in, but so was everybody else,” said Chet Pleban, a lawyer for Mr. McCrary and the other two members of the police force who lost their jobs after Mr. Jakob’s real identity came to light.

Of the firings, Mayor Schulte said, “Nobody wanted to, but the city’s lawyer recommended it.”

When residents first began noticing Mr. Jakob, he certainly looked the part. His hair was chopped short, residents recalled, and his stocky chest filled a black T-shirt he sometimes wore that read POLICE. They said he wore military-style boots, pants with pockets running down the legs and carried a badge (his lawyer said it was from a former job as a security guard in St. Louis). And his off-white Crown Victoria was decked out with police radios and internal flashing lights, residents said.

He first came to town in January, his lawyer said, to meet Chief McCrary, whose experiences serving in Afghanistan Mr. Jakob had read about in a local newspaper. Mr. Jakob was considering contract work overseas, Mr. Schwartz said, and the pair hit it off.

Soon, the busts began. Some of those whose homes were searched said they were kicked in the head and had shotguns held against them. Mr. Jakob, many said, seemed to be leading the crew of Gerald police officers.

“He was definitely in charge — it was all him,” said Mike Withington, 49, a concrete finisher, who said Mr. Jakob pounded on his door in May, waking him up and yanking him, in handcuffs, out onto his front yard.

Mr. Withington said he had not yet been charged with a crime; Gary Toelke, the Franklin County sheriff, confirmed that no local charges had been issued against him. . But the mortification of that day, Mr. Withington said, has kept him largely indoors and led him to consider moving. Since the search, residents have tossed garbage and crumpled boxes of Sudafed (an ingredient of which can be used to make methamphetamine) on his lawn, he said, and he no longer shops in town, instead driving miles to neighboring towns.

“Everybody is staring at me,” he said. “People assume you’re guilty when things like this happen.”

When Linda Trest, 51, a reporter at The Gasconade County Republican, started hearing complaints from people whose homes had been searched, she began making inquiries about Mr. Jakob.

“Once I got his name, I hit the computer and within an hour I had all the dirt on this guy,” Ms. Trest said.

As it turned out, Mr. Jakob, who is married and lives near Washington, a small town not far from Gerald, filed for bankruptcy protection in 2003 when he owned a trucking company, and had, at 22, pleaded guilty in Illinois to a misdemeanor charge of criminal sex abuse of someone in their teens.

Since the 1990s, he had worked, at times, as a police officer in tiny departments in towns like Kinloch, Mo., and Brooklyn, Ill., though he never seemed to stay anywhere long and was never certified as a police officer in either Missouri or Illinois, his lawyer said. (Under some conditions, short-term employees with some departments are not immediately required to have state certification.)

As in Gerald, he impressed some, if only at first. “He seemed to have experience on the street,” said J. D. Roth, the police chief in Caseyville, Ill., where Mr. Jakob was a temporary part-time officer for almost two months in 2000. “He walked the walk and talked the talk.”

In Gerald, just a day before it was revealed that he was not a federal agent, the city aldermen voted to make Mr. Jakob a reserve officer; he wanted the designation, Mr. Schulte said, so he could enforce local ordinances, and he stood before the aldermen, hands behind his back, seeking the title.

Mr. Jakob offered city officials three contact numbers — his personal cellphone, a cellphone he said he used for drug informants and his “multijurisdictional task force” cellphone, Mr. Schulte said.

“It was the movie, ‘Catch Me if You Can’ all over again,” said Mr. Schulte, referring to the 2002 film starring Leonardo DiCaprio as a master of deception. “I’m telling you, with this guy, everything was right.”
28 2008-07-01 “It’s not premium economy,” said Dale Moss, managing director for OpenSkies, just after the carrier’s inaugural flight landed at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York two weeks ago.

Describing the airline’s prem-plus cabin, which has 28 seats with a roomy 52-inch pitch (the distance between the back of the seat and the seat in front of it), Mr. Moss emphasized, “It’s a business-class seat as opposed to a business-class bed.”

The leather seat is 20 inches wide and reclines to a 140-degree angle (flat would be 180 degrees) with an adjustable leg rest and lumbar support.

OpenSkies currently flies one Boeing 757 aircraft between Paris Orly airport and Kennedy and plans to add five planes on routes from New York to Europe by the end of 2009. Prem-plus fares start at $1,650 round trip, including taxes and fees, through July 4 and then will rise to $2,256.

Although a 757 typically carries 200 or more passengers, OpenSkies has 82 seats, with 24 in business class and 30 in economy. But that breakdown may shift depending on customer response to each cabin, Mr. Moss said.

Given the economy and the response to the premium economy concept on other carriers, this new middle class may have found its moment. Virgin Atlantic, which introduced its original premium economy product in 1992 when companies were downsizing after the Persian Gulf war, redesigned and expanded that part of the cabin last year.

Chris Rossi, the airline’s senior vice president for North America, said the airline has seen less corporate “trading down” lately, yet premium economy bookings have increased 20 percent over the last 10 months.

Virgin Atlantic’s premium economy seat is 21 inches wide with a 38-inch seat pitch and includes priority check-in, priority boarding and baggage claim, a preflight drink, an amenity kit and enhanced meal service.

British Airways also offers a separate premium economy cabin, called World Traveller Plus, which was introduced in 2000 and recently got a makeover with new fabric cushion and headrest covers and upgrades like noise-reducing headsets. Its seats are 18.5 inches wide with a 38-inch pitch. On both British Airways and Virgin, premium economy fares from New York to London start at $1,891, including taxes and fees.

Across the Pacific, Japan Airlines and Qantas Airways both introduced premium economy cabins last fall, and plan to extend them to flights to the United States later this year.

Japan Airline’s premium economy service will make its debut on its Tokyo to New York route on Aug. 1, featuring a “sky shell seat” that reclines within a stationary hard shell to avoid encroaching on the traveler seated behind.

In November, Qantas Airways will introduce its premium economy service to flights between Australia and Los Angeles. The new cabin is priced at about twice the economy fare and half of the business-class fare, said Lesley Grant, a Qantas group general manager.

Frank Schnur, vice president for advisory services with American Express Business Travel, said the company has seen more interest in premium economy among its corporate clients, particularly since the beginning of the year.

But carriers in the United States do not seem to be embracing the concept. While United Airlines has Economy Plus seating, it offers a few more inches of legroom than economy, but not the upgraded seat.

While acknowledging the financial challenges that American carriers face, Mr. Harteveldt attributed their absence in this arena to lack of interest in passengers outside the expensive cabins.

“People will pay an above-average price for something that’s tangibly better, so kudos to the airlines that recognize this,” he said. “The ones that don’t are going to wonder, ‘Where did my profitable customers go?’ ”
29 2008-07-01 A federal appeals court on Monday dismissed a lawsuit filed by a Syrian-born Canadian man who had accused the United States of violating the law and his civil rights after he was detained at Kennedy Airport and sent to Syria under what he claims was an act of “extraordinary rendition.”

The man, Maher Arar, tried to win civil damages from United States officials in his suit, but the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York ruled that because he was never technically inside the United States, his claims could not be heard in the federal courts.

While stating that “threats to the nation’s security do not allow us to jettison principles of ‘simple justice and fair dealing,’ ” the majority opinion ruled nonetheless that Mr. Arar, who had been seized as he tried to change planes at Kennedy Airport while flying back to Canada from Switzerland, had no federal standing in his case and that the government did not violate the Torture Victim Protection Act by sending him abroad.

Mr. Arar, a telecommunications engineer, was detained at the airport in September 2002 when immigration officers found his name on a terrorist watch list. After being held for several days in New York, he was sent to Jordan by immigration officers and turned over to Syrian intelligence, which, he claims, tortured him.

In an occasionally scathing dissent, one judge, Robert D. Sack, said Mr. Arar’s suit should have been able to proceed because the argument that he was never really in the United States was “a legal fiction.”

“Arar was, in effect, abducted while attempting to transit at J.F.K. Airport,” Judge Sack wrote.
30 2008-07-01 CHICAGO (Reuters) — Business activity in the Midwest contracted in June for a fifth consecutive month but at a less severe rate, even as production and new orders both slipped, a report showed Monday.

The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago business barometer rose to 49.6 from 49.1 in May, and was the strongest since January.

Economists had forecast the index at 48.0. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.

“The fact that we are hanging around 50 is consistent with an economy that is hovering right above recession level, but is not in a recession,” said Mark Vitner, economist at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte.

The employment component of the index rose to 46.7 from 41.2 in May — also the strongest since January.

Still, new orders fell to 52.0 from 56.1 and production was down to 45.1 from 51.5.

“On balance, results came in relatively mixed, contributing to a modest further increase in the headline measure,” strategists at IDEAglobal in New York said. “Most subcomponents remain weak.”

Businesses face continued high input costs. The prices paid index slipped to 85.5 from 87.5, which was the highest since June 2006, and was above 80 for a fourth straight month.
31 2008-07-01 This is the time of year when food poisoning typically spikes, and one popular picnic ingredient that always attracts suspicion is mayonnaise.

But studies cast doubt on that.

Most commercial brands of mayonnaise contain vinegar and other ingredients that make them acidic — and therefore very likely to protect against spoilage. When problems occur, they usually result from other contaminated or low-acid ingredients (like chicken and seafood), improper storage and handling, or homemade versions that contain unpasteurized eggs.

One prominent study published in The Journal of Food Protection found, for example, that in the presence of commercial mayonnaise, the growth of salmonella and staphylococcus bacteria in contaminated chicken and ham salad either slowed or stopped altogether. As the amount of mayonnaise increased, the rate of growth decreased. When temperatures rose to those of a hot summer day, the growth increased, but not as much as in samples that did not contain mayonnaise.

For backyard chefs, some high-risk foods in summer are raw shellfish, bulk ground beef (health officials say a single hamburger can contain meat from hundreds of animals) and unwashed fruits and vegetables.

Despite its reputation, mayonnaise can reduce food spoilage.
32 2008-07-01 The reason for the delay was unclear.

Chevron said in a statement that it was “continuing to negotiate” with the Oil Ministry on the short-term technical contract on an oil field called West Qurna, which is currently producing.

“The ministry has separately announced a tender for full field development and Chevron has been prequalified to participate in that bid round,” the company said.

Mr. Shahristani defended the way Iraq has handled the oil contracts, which have led to criticism in the Arab world and abroad, where suspicions run rampant that the United States-led invasion was at least partly about access to Iraq’s oil.

The initial contracts are expected to be awarded without competitive bidding, but Mr. Shahristani told the news conference, “There will be no privilege for any of those companies to participate in future contracts.”

Bloomberg News quoted the chief executive of Shell, Jeroen van der Veer, as saying at the World Petroleum Congress in Madrid that the company expected to sign oil agreements with Iraq in “a matter of weeks.”

A major legal question hangs over the process: Iraq has yet to pass a law that divides oil revenue among all parts of the country.

Iraq has some of the largest oil reserves on earth, but they are largely untapped because the country has long lacked the resources to develop them. The companies will provide equipment and expertise to refurbish the country’s aging infrastructure.

The six fields “are producing now, but there is a need for development because they were established years ago,” Mr. Shahristani said.

Iraqis interviewed on Monday said profit from oil was the business of the country’s most powerful politicians, as well as the United States, and ordinary people got little benefit from it

“The income won’t come to me,” said Abu Riyam, a 42-year-old engineer who was shoe shopping with a relative in central Baghdad. “They won’t build houses or hospitals with it.”

Despite Iraqi skepticism, oil accounts for nearly all of Iraq’s revenue, and provides salaries for public sector employees as well as financing for most public works projects.

Other Iraqis were more hopeful.

“American technology is the best in the world,” said Salah Mahmood, a 45-year-old cab driver in Basra, Iraq’s second-largest city and the center of oil production for the country. “Why would we reject these contracts?”

Also on Monday, a spate of violence against judges escalated sharply. Bombs exploded in front of the houses of four judges from the Court of Appeals in largely-Shiite eastern Baghdad, a spokesman for the court said.

A fifth judge discovered a bomb in his car as he was leaving the same court Monday afternoon. An Interior Ministry spokesman said the bomb exploded and the judge, Hassan Fuad, was wounded.

The attacks seemed to be calculated to intimidate rather than to kill. It was not clear who was responsible.

“This is an attack to destroy the state itself,” said Wail Abdul Latif, a member of Parliament who worked as a judge for decades. “These judges were far from sectarianism and politics.”

In addition, bombs exploded in Mosul, in northern Iraq, and near a police station in a town called Mandli in Diyala Province in eastern Iraq, killing two and wounding more than 20, the authorities said.
33 2008-07-01 His presumed Democratic opponent, Senator Barack Obama, opposes the deal and frequently cites it in campaign speeches as an example of what he sees as the administration’s wrongheaded trade policies. Mr. Obama has expressed environmental and human rights concerns, including what he describes as the Colombian government’s repression of labor unions.

Mr. Black has recently been at the center of campaign controversy over an interview, published in June by Fortune magazine, in which he said that another terrorist attack on the United States would benefit Mr. McCain’s candidacy. The McCain campaign declined to make him available to discuss his lobbying activities on behalf of Colombia for BKSH.

“The campaign has no connection to that firm and therefore no connection to the questions you are asking,” said Tucker Bounds, a campaign spokesman.

Occidental’s activities in Colombia have long been controversial, both within that country and among human-rights, indigenous-rights and environmental groups abroad. The groups have accused the company of complicity in the killing of peasants thought to be sympathetic to the left-wing guerrilla groups that operate in the area where Occidental has pipelines or drilling activities. They have also blamed Occidental for the polluting of rural areas and have accused it of intimidating Indian tribes seeking to prevent drilling on their ancestral lands.

Occidental has long denied the accusations, maintaining that its practices are environmentally sound and describing its critics as unrepresentative.

The most controversial episode dates from December 1998, when the Colombian Air Force dropped cluster bombs on Santo Domingo, a village near an Occidental pipeline, killing 18 people. Human rights groups and Colombian government officials say the bombing was a mistake that occurred because three employees of a Florida-based aerial security company employed by Occidental to monitor guerrilla movements had provided incorrect coordinates to the Colombian military pilots.

The American employees of the security company dropped out of sight, and Colombian government efforts to have them handed over for questioning and perhaps trial were fruitless. Frustrated by what they consider the security company’s stonewalling, human rights groups filed suit in California in 2003 and 2004 against Occidental, whose headquarters is in Los Angeles.

Occidental has denied any responsibility for the bombing of Santo Domingo, saying when the first suit was filed that it “has not and does not provide lethal aid to Colombia’s armed forces.”

Even as the Santo Domingo attack became a cause célèbre among human rights groups in Washington, as well as some lawmakers there, Congress approved a special appropriation of nearly $100 million for the protection of oil pipelines in Colombia in 2003, when Mr. Black’s firm was lobbying on Occidental’s behalf.

Atossa Soltani, executive director of Amazon Watch, a human rights group that works on behalf of Colombian Indian tribes opposed to oil drilling and pipelines on their lands, said Mr. Black was also “very active” while Congress was debating a $1.3 billion military assistance package to Colombia that became law in 2000. “We’d be making the rounds in Congress,” Ms. Soltani said, “and Oxy would be there making the rounds, too.”

Occidental has come under fire as well in connection with the 2003 killing of three Colombian labor leaders who were initially and erroneously said to be affiliated with one of the guerrilla groups that regularly attack Occidental’s installations. Three Colombian soldiers, all of them members of a special unit that guards an Occidental pipeline, were charged with murder.
34 2008-07-01 ANOTHER FUEL THREAT The storms and floods that swept through the Midwest last month, severely damaging America's corn crop, have raised a new concern about the costs of future crop failures.       Despite the floods, farmers found an extra 1.3 mil...
35 2008-07-02 Taking Questions: Adam Goldfarb, an issues specialist at the Humane Society of the United States, answers questions about dangerous dogs....
36 2008-07-02 Senator John McCain Tuesday denied a recollection from Senator Thad Cochran that he had roughly grabbed an associate of President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua and lifted him out of his chair during a trip to Central America in 1987....
37 2008-07-02 Lehman Brothers is paying more of employees' compensation in stock this year, the company said in a memo sent to employees on Wednesday. The company also granted employees an equity award on July 1, which signaled to some investors that the compan...
38 2008-07-02 A forthcoming study from Carnegie Mellon shows that people are more inclined to divulge private information online in some contexts than others....
39 2008-07-02 When it was reported that Senator Obama refused to oblige a boy's request for one, it created something of a stir. An instant replay, however, shows that the incident didn't happen the way it was reported....
40 2008-07-02 For nearly any company, mentioning the dread "B" word sends shivers up investors spines, and almost assuredly leads to a big drop in its stock. On Wednesday, General Motors suffered just that, with its shares down more than 13 percent by mid-after...
41 2008-07-02 One of the Republican candidate's advisers assumes a more prominent role....
42 2008-07-02 The Republican candidate's trip takes a look at drug interdiction in Colombia....
43 2008-07-02 McDonald's will be offering chop suey, Big Macs for athletes and visions of Chinese children cavorting beneath the Golden Arches....
44 2008-07-02 Institutional investors use Liquidnet every trading day to move big blocks of stock. But will they jump at the chance of buying shares of the company itself? Liquidnet, which one money manager once referred to as "Napster for stocks," filed Wednes...
45 2008-07-02 Updated:Samuel Israel III, the hedge fund manager whose disappearance has sparked a manhunt for the convicted felon, has been arrested in southwestern Massachusetts, federal marshals said on Wednesday.. Mr. Israel was arrested in Southwick, Mass.,...
46 2008-07-02 Leona Helmsley leaves a largesse for dogs everywhere....
47 2008-07-02 The presumptive Republican nominee gets a chance to burnish his foreign policy credentials this week....
48 2008-07-02 John Harrobin of Verizon Wireless sees music distribution via cellphone becoming more important as artists leave the big record labels....
49 2008-07-02 More of your "late night" humor (send via the comment link below): Starbucks is closing 600 of its stores, forcing patrons to walk half a block to another Starbucks. – Sid Knowles Prince Charles runs his Aston Martin on wine. Does that mean if h...
50 2008-07-02 Microsoft is preparing a new bid for Yahoo's search business and has approached other media companies about joining it in a deal that would effectively lead to Yahoo's breakup, The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday. Microsoft has already h...
51 2008-07-02 The Justice Department has opened a formal antitrust investigation into a deal that would see Google provide some search advertising for Yahoo, The Washington Post reported citing sources familiar with the inquiry. Investigators will demand docume...
52 2008-07-02 Taylor Wimpey on Tuesday said it had failed to secure an emergency cash injection to repair its ailing balance sheet. The news led shares in Britain's housebuilder sector to plummet, The Telegraph reported. The firm also announced that finance dir...
53 2008-07-02 As rumored last week, Microsoft said on Tuesday that it would buy Powerset The Internet search company acquisitions is the latest in a string of purchases aimed at bolstering Microsoft's position online. Powerset designs semantic search technology...
54 2008-07-02 Sohar Power Company, an Oman-based power and water producer, will open its 13.33 million Omani rial ($34.62 million) initial public offering on Wednesday. The company is offering 9.73 million shares of the company to the public at an offer price o...
55 2008-07-02 Denmark slid into recession in the first quarter, as its economy shrank 0.6 percent after contracting a revised 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, Statistics Denmark said.
56 2008-07-02 SAN FRANCISCO (Dow Jones) — Microsoft said on Tuesday that it would buy Powerset Inc., an Internet search company, the latest in a string of acquisitions aimed at bolstering its position online.

Powerset, based in San Francisco, designs “semantic search” technology that contextualizes search queries to improve results. The size of the deal was not disclosed.

Over the last two years, Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., has spent roughly $8 billion on Internet buyouts, as well as $500 million trying to grow internally.

So far this year, nine of Microsoft’s 15 acquisitions have been in the Internet sector.

Microsoft’s rush of acquisitions underscores the urgency it feels in the Internet market, where it is a distant third in Internet search, far behind Google, which was used for 68 percent of all United States searches in May.

This year, an effort to plug that gap by buying or joining forces with Yahoo, a move that would have vaulted Microsoft into the No. 2 spot, faltered.
57 2008-07-02 Boeing, already facing a delay of at least 14 months on its new 787 Dreamliner aircraft, has not yet determined if damage to the fourth of six test planes will have an effect on the full program.

The midbody fuselage section built by Global Aeronautica, a Boeing venture with Alenia North America, a unit of Finmeccanica, was damaged in Charleston, S.C., “by an Alenia employee not following proper work procedures,” a Boeing spokeswoman, Yvonne Leach, said Monday night.

“We resolved it, but we have to look at the schedule and what that means” for the fourth plane as well as the program’s timetable, Ms. Leach said.

The part had not yet been shipped to Everett, Wash., where Boeing is doing the final assembly work, she said, adding that “when we get the section, we’ll know better about the overall impact.”

The fourth plane “is an important part of the test flight process” because of its intended role with the engine testing, and the incident may stretch the flight tests out by a month, a Bank of America analyst, Harry Nourse, wrote in a note on Tuesday.

Ms. Leach declined to describe the damage. An aviation industry Web site that has previously reported on 787 delays, Flightglobal.com’s Flightblogger, said that incorrect fasteners had been used in some places, damaging the carbon-composite structure.
58 2008-07-02 Nearly one out of three handguns and rifles that had been turned in to the police could not be immediately accounted for in a Manhattan property clerk’s office, according to a city audit released on Tuesday that criticized the Police Department’s storage procedures.

The audit, conducted by the office of William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, examined the records of 324 weapons chosen at random out of thousands in storage in the Manhattan property division. Ninety-four of them could not be immediately found in their assigned storage areas.

“It’s a case of weapons gone AWOL,” Mr. Thompson said at a news conference on Tuesday.

After the initial search, it was determined that 70 of the 94 weapons had been returned to their owners or destroyed, Mr. Thompson said, while 24 “miraculously” turned up on shelves from where they had previously been missing after several attempts to find them.

“At no time were we given a satisfactory explanation about where the firearms had been, how they had been located or how they had been returned to the same spot that the auditors and the property clerk staff had checked on at earlier dates,” Mr. Thompson said.

“How can it take five attempts to find a 20-gauge shotgun at 1 Police Plaza?” he said.

The property clerk division, which has an office in each borough, catalogs and safeguards property taken into police custody, such as cash, narcotics and weapons. Firearms are turned in by owners whose licenses have expired, or are seized from criminals, or simply found and handed over.
59 2008-07-02 HOUSTON — World demand for oil should continue to climb, despite the doubling of oil prices and weakening economic growth, according to a report released Tuesday by the International Energy Agency.

That should mean tightening supplies, decreasing the odds that drivers will get much relief at the gasoline pump.

The Paris-based agency, which advises governments of the industrialized countries, predicted that oil consumption would decline slightly in the United States and other developed countries over the next couple of years. Americans, the report said, are beginning to drive more fuel-efficient vehicles and taking mass transit when it is available.

But the small decline in oil demand in the industrialized countries will be more than offset by an estimated increase in demand of 3.7 percent a year from 2008 to 2013 in developing countries, particularly in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.

“The report is only further confirmation of the inability of global supply to catch up with rising demands,” said Chris Ruppel, an energy analyst at Execution, an institutional brokerage firm. “After five years of record increases in oil prices, producers are still unable to sufficiently expand output. It means we are in for rough times.”
60 2008-07-02 The museum has several works in its collection by members of the della Robbia family of Florence, who are credited with inventing brightly colored tin-glazed terra cotta, a kind of work that quickly became popular throughout Europe because of its beauty and relatively low cost.

Members of the della Robbia family were traditionally employed in the textile industry, and their name derives from the Latin for red dye. Of the work of Luca della Robbia, Andrea’s uncle and the first in the family to make glazed terra cotta, the essayist Walter Pater wrote, “Nothing brings the real air of a Tuscan town so vividly to mind as those pieces of pale blue and white earthenware, by which he is best known, like fragments of the milky sky itself, fallen into the cool streets.”

The St. Michael was commissioned around 1475 for the church of San Michele Arcangelo in Faenza, a town between Bologna and Ravenna in Italy. The church was dismantled around 1798, and the lunette was later owned by private collectors. The Met bought it in 1960 for $40,000 ($288,000 in today's dollars) at an auction of the collection of Myron C. Taylor, who had been chairman of the United States Steel Corporation.

Mr. Holzer said there were no immediate indications of what caused the sculpture to topple. It was encased in a wooden frame that covered the unglazed back of the terra cotta. The sculpture and frame rested atop the doorway on a steel shelf, with additional steel bolts to secure the top, and there were no apparent signs of rust or water damage behind the piece.

“There’s nothing evident in what’s left on that wall,” Mr. Holzer said, adding, “We’re not going to venture into any preliminary guesswork about the cause except to say that we know it’s an accident.”

The museum said in a statement that “while the Metropolitan routinely and thoroughly inspects its pedestals and wall mounts to reconfirm their structural integrity, it will initiate a reinvigorated museumwide examination as expeditiously as possible in the days that follow this unfortunate accident.” The Met was also reviewing security video to see if it revealed any information about what occurred.

It is not the first time a sculpture has fallen and broken at the museum. In 2002 a 15th-century marble statue of Adam by the Venetian sculptor Tullio Lombardo crashed to the ground in the Velez Blanco Patio, scattering its arms, legs and an ornamental tree trunk into dozens of pieces.

The 6-foot-3-inch statue tipped over when one side of the four-inch-high base of its pedestal buckled. The statue is still being studied with the goal of restoration, and it was never determined what caused its pedestal to collapse.
61 2008-07-02 In a statement left on the former festival Web site, spoletofestival.it, Mr. Menotti accused ungrateful recipients of his father’s “creativity” of wrenching away the festival “for their own gain.”

Mr. Ferrara had to start fresh, building an organization nearly from scratch. His previous job was running the Italian Institute of Culture in Paris, so he borrowed heavily from French culture and declared France this year’s theme. The signature opera was the rarely performed “Padmavati,” by Albert Roussel. The theater program included several French plays.

Mr. Ferrara is also struggling to restore the festival’s reputation as a place for big names. The director Robert Wilson is here with his production of “The Threepenny Opera.” Other directors include Luca Ronconi and Luc Bondy, well known in Europe, and the London Symphony is giving the final outdoor gala concert. Italian newspapers are starting to pay attention again.

Few productions, however, are brand new, a result of the short planning time. “We’re studying the question of new productions next year,” Mr. Ferrara said. And the runs of each show are short — only two performances, for example, of “Padmavati.” That saves money, Mr. Ferrara said.

Ticket sales since the festival began on Friday have been disappointing so far. Although some shows have been sold out, sales have averaged about 25 percent to 30 percent, according to the festival spokesman, Marco Guerini. Specific numbers were still being calculated.

Mr. Ferrara said he was also trying to carve a new identity for the festival in an age of heavy summer competition in Europe. Spoleto, he said, was one of the few places to experience all performance disciplines — music, theater, dance and opera — and the emphasis would now be on directors and their ideas.

Underneath the optimistic talk, though, lies a tale of bitterness and bruised feelings. Wounds over turmoil in the festival’s leadership remain open in this small town of 36,000.

Gian Carlo Menotti, whose operas had been immensely popular, founded the festival in 1958. For years it was seen as a place of innovation, a starting point for young talent and a destination for celebrated artists. Calder’s works were displayed outdoors. Nureyev danced. Thomas Schippers conducted. Other luminaries included Jerome Robbins, Luchino Visconti, Ezra Pound and Louis Malle. A young Jacqueline du Pré performed here. This medieval jumble of streets on an Italian hill acquired international prestige.

Mr. Menotti, who founded a sister festival in Charleston, S.C., in 1977, became a revered figure. In the years before, his longstanding relationship with the composer Samuel Barber having cooled, he became close to a young American actor and former professional ice skater named Francis Phelan, who was 36 when Mr. Menotti adopted him in 1974.

Mr. Menotti, who could be both charming and infuriating to his associates, cut ties with the American festival in 1993 when it rejected his choice of Francis Menotti as director. Four years later the younger Menotti took over in Italy, sweeping away many employees. Some were Spoleto residents with decades at the festival who said they subsequently felt like exiles in their own town.

Critics of the old management said the festival began a precipitous decline. Toward the end performers and vendors weren’t paid, according to current festival officials. Francis Menotti failed to present accounts required by law for at least the last three years, Mr. Ferrara said. Critics said the quality of presentations diminished. So did attendance and, just as bad, international attention.

“A beautiful thing fell apart,” said Giancarlo Battista, a onetime director general of the Academy of Santa Cecilia foundation in Rome.

But as long as Gian Carlo Menotti remained on the scene, cultural and local officials did not act. Local businesses complained but would not take a public stand, said Massimo Brunini, the mayor of Spoleto and a member of the foundation that now governs the festival.

“Everyone saw he wasn’t capable,” Mr. Brunini said of Francis Menotti, but “the strength wasn’t there to fight.”

He attributed the inaction partly to an Italian resistance to making hard choices. Perhaps just as powerful was a reluctance to challenge the older Mr. Menotti, out of a particularly Italian respect for family elders and a man with sanctified status, Mr. Brunini said. Umbria, Spoleto’s region, is after all called “land of the saints.”

But after Gian Carlo Menotti died last year, the festival’s backers and the town asked the Italian Culture Ministry to intervene. In November the ministry announced that it had ousted Francis Menotti and put Mr. Ferrara in charge. Ultimate control went to the festival’s foundation, which had served merely as a fund-raiser.

The government has also infused $7 million and designated the Spoleto festival one of Italy’s premier cultural institutions. The American and Italian festivals talked about restoring ties, and Spoleto and Charleston renewed their twin-city status.

The choice of Mr. Ferrara is not unanimously favored. One opponent is Giovanni Carandente, one of Spoleto’s most respected figures, an 88-year-old art historian and curator who organized a landmark outdoor sculpture exhibition at the festival in 1962. His donated personal collection forms the core of the local modern art museum.

Mr. Carandente said that he had nothing against Mr. Ferrara personally, but that the director should be in the festival’s musical tradition. The music offerings are indeed relatively thin, and the popular noontime concerts have been moved to the evening. The Orchestra of the 18th Century, the kind of period-instrument group that is the ultimate in acoustic sound, was assigned to perform with heavy amplification in the outdoor Roman theater.

“The circumstances are a bit bizarre,” said Sieuwert Verster, the orchestra’s manager.

Mr. Carandente also said that Mr. Ferrara’s political leanings had played a role in the choice by the leftist culture minister, which Mr. Ferrara denied. “Culture needs to be free,” Mr. Carandente said.

Francis Menotti fought back. He sued to deny use of the name Festival of Two Worlds and the festival logo, and to stop the foundation from using some state funds.

“On his deathbed, I made a solemn promise to my father to defend the honor and integrity of the Festival to the full extent of my powers,” his Web site statement says. He lost in court just weeks before the festival began. The judge ordered him to pay court costs.

Other disputes linger. Mr. Menotti and the city are embroiled in a legal dispute over hedges on his property that local authorities say illegally block views of the cathedral, Mr. Brunini said.

Mr. Menotti is trying to evict the bar portion of a restaurant from a building inherited from his father, said the restaurant’s owner, Giuseppe D’Amelio. Tax investigators have placed materials of the old festival under seal in a warehouse, according to Mr. Ferrara.

For residents who felt burned by Francis Menotti, there is a certain exultation at his ouster and a sense of reunion. Dedi Raspi, a Spoletina fired after 22 years at the festival, said, “I’m being reborn too!”

For his part, Francis Menotti in his statement said it was “an honor and a privilege” to have helped his father create “the magical moments that audiences and artists shared together.”
62 2008-07-02 Serena beat Zheng easily in their only previous meeting, which came in the first round of Wimbledon in 2004, which was Zheng’s breakthrough year on tour.

“I’ve been watching her play,” Serena said. “I think she’s doing a fabulous job, and I don’t think it’s luck, her doing well. I think she’s a really good player. I’m definitely not going to underestimate her.”

Zheng, a relatively short but solidly built 24-year-old better known for her doubles prowess, has already upset four seeded players at this Wimbledon, including No. 1 seed Ana Ivanovic in the third round. On Tuesday, she became the first Chinese woman to reach the semifinals at a Grand Slam event by overcoming the more powerful but more erratic 19-year-old Czech, Nicole Vaidisova, 6-2, 5-7, 6-1.

Zheng, who has already won the Wimbledon women’s doubles title with partner Yan Zi, is less than a year removed from ankle surgery that caused her to miss the second half of the 2007 season. Though her latest victory ended just before midnight in China, she said she already had received numerous messages of congratulations from her homeland.

“I know today I had many Chinese people on the TV watching this match, so on the court, I told myself that I need to keep going and do my best for my friends and my family,” said Zheng, who plans to donate part of her prize money from Wimbledon to earthquake relief in her home city of Chengdu, which was damaged by a massive earthquake in May.

Serena, seeded sixth this year, was particularly sharp in her 6-4, 6-0 victory over No. 14 seed Agnieszka Radwanska, a 19-year-old from Poland. She required just 51 minutes to finish off Radwanska, who had stopped another big hitter, Svetlana Kuznetsova, in the fourth round.

“I definitely felt I stepped it up a notch, mostly with my serve,” Serena said. “I felt my serve really clicked, and I think that was the turning point of the whole match.”

She finished with 11 aces, including four in one game while serving at 2-3 in the first set. In all, Serena finished with 27 winners and six unforced errors: a remarkable ratio for a player who takes big swings and risks as consistently as she does.

“She was playing too good for me today,” who also got only four games when they played on clay in Berlin earlier this season.

Nonetheless, until further notice, Venus Williams remains the defending champion here. On Tuesday, despite sometimes fierce resistance from counterpunching Thai veteran Tamarine Tanasugarn, Venus was able to finish off a 6-4, 6-3 victory.

Dementieva looked ready to do the same on Centre Court as she served for the match with a 6-1, 5-2 lead in her quarterfinal against compatriot Nadia Petrova. But closing out victories under Grand Slam pressure has not been Dementieva’s forte of late, and this surprisingly straightforward encounter would soon become much more psychologically complex as Dementieva lost her cool in the heat that is making this Wimbledon feel more like that steamier Grand Slam that is staged in the Australian summer.

Dementieva had also served for the match at 5-2 in the second set in the quarterfinals of this year’s French Open against Dinara Safina, another powerfully built, unpredictable Russian. But Dementieva failed to seal the deal against Safina in Paris and then squandered a match point in the next game with a missed backhand return long and ended up losing her grip on power. Safina was on her way to a memorable 4-6, 7-6 (5), 6-0 victory, and Dementieva was left to ponder her failings once more.

She gave herself more time to think on Tuesday. Early on, Petrova was completely adrift after becoming unsettled by a foot fault call in the fourth game. But Petrova gradually clambered back aboard the lifeboat that Dementieva inflated for her. Two points away from victory at 5-2, 30-0, Dementieva lost the next four points, including her serve with a double fault.

“I was so tight,” Dementieva said.

The Russians would eventually end up in a tiebreaker, where Petrova would save two match points before evening the match with a forehand volley winner.

“I was like, ‘Oops I did it again!’ I’m out of semifinals,” Dementieva said.

As is often the case in women’s tennis, Dementieva left the court between sets to change clothes. When she returned five minutes later, she felt better about her chances.

“I just told myself that I have to think that I won this second set, 7-6,” she said. “And that gave me some energy in the beginning of the third. I didn’t want to think. I forget immediately what happened to me, because I remember this match against Dinara, and I didn’t play at all in the third set. Here, I really didn’t want to lose this match. I really was trying everything possible to fight, to play and be positive.”

The result was rarely a delight for the spectators fanning themselves in the stands. There were errors aplenty, few extended rallies and plenty of under-powered slice serves from Dementieva. But she still managed to jump out to a 4-0 lead and then recovered from another shaky passage of play to eventually win 6-1, 6-7 (6), 6-3 in 2 hours 32 minutes.

Dementieva, not Petrova, will be the first seeded player Williams will face this year at Wimbledon. And while Petrova was unable to take consistent advantage of Dementieva’s tentative, often predictable sliced serves, the forehand return is one of Williams’s traditional strengths.

“It’s nice to be favorite, but I’m going to go out there and work just as hard as if I wasn’t the favorite,” Williams said.

Neither sister has lost a set in any match this year, but both have had to work very hard in patches. Tanasugarn’s greatest resistance against Venus came in the first set , when she and Venus traded early breaks of serve. Leading 3-2, Venus then had to save six break points to hold serve to 4-2, with Tanasugarn often getting the best of the extended rallies but failing repeatedly to get crucial returns in play.

The flat-hitter, participating in her first Grand Slam quarterfinal at age 31, kept it close from there but never appeared close to creating a genuine threat. For the seventh time in seven attempts, she lost to Venus in straight sets.

The only cloud to appear for Williams on this otherwise clear, fine day was the fact that she limped off Court 1, favoring a hamstring muscle.

“Feels a little bit tight,” she said. “It’s to be expected when you’ve played the number of matches I’ve played in doubles and singles.”

“I’m fine,” she added. “I mean I’m walking around on two legs, doing good, so I’m not really concerned right now.”

Venus and Serena are in the quarterfinals of the women’s doubles, sharpening their games with the intent of playing together at the Summer Olympics in Beijing in August. But if form holds, they will very likely play each other in singles here in Sunday’s final.

“I surely hope so, and I have to say that I believe so, but I’m just fighting to win my next match,” Serena said.

“We want to deserve to be there,” Venus said.

Such occasions were once routine before injuries, distractions and the rise of now-retired competitors like Justine Henin and Kim Clijsters changed the dynamic. It has now been five years since the Williamses played in a Grand Slam final. The last one was here in 2003.

If it happens again, Serena already has her plan for unsettling her doubles partner and Wimbledon housemate.

“I’m going to sabotage her and eat all of her breakfast,” Serena said.
63 2008-07-02 Baron Davis shocked the Golden State Warriors and muddled the N.B.A.’s free-agent market when he opted out of his contract late Monday night.

Davis, the Warriors’ star point guard, was due to earn $17.8 million next season, the final year of his contract. He was widely expected to become a free agent next summer. Instead, Davis surprised the entire league when he announced his decision just before the midnight deadline.

There were immediate reports that the Los Angeles Clippers would pursue Davis, and that the Warriors would chase Gilbert Arenas, the Washington Wizards’ All-Star guard.

If the Warriors land Arenas, who began his career with the team in 2001, it would deal a severe blow to the Wizards who signed forward Antawn Jamison to a major contract extension Monday in the hope that it would entice Arenas to stay.

Only two teams — the Memphis Grizzlies and the Philadelphia 76ers — were expected to have enough room under the salary cap to sign a star free agent. And there seemed to be scant incentive for elite players to opt out of their contracts, except to re-sign with their own teams. So it was a surprise when both Davis and the Clippers’ Elton Brand terminated the final years of their deals. (Two other star players, Miami’s Shawn Marion and Sacramento’s Ron Artest, chose not to opt out.)

Brand told newspapers in Los Angeles that he intended to re-sign with the Clippers, but said that he wanted to give them payroll flexibility — an imdication that he may be willing to accept less than the $16.4 million he was due to earn next season, giving the Clippers the ability to sign Davis.
64 2008-07-02 But two years later he was forced out amid a furor over his pay, even though he maintained that the stock exchange’s directors, who included many Wall Street executives, approved his compensation. Mr. Grasso, who spent 35 years at the exchange, working his way up from a clerk to the chairman’s office, always insisted the fight was not about the money, but about his personal honor. He never showed any inclination to settle the case, despite pressure from Mr. Spitzer.

“Dick Grasso is gratified by the ruling of the appellate division,” said his lawyer, Gerson A. Zweifach, a partner at Williams & Connolly. “His devotion to the stock exchange never wavered, and neither did his faith that he would be vindicated by the courts.”

Mr. Grasso, in an interview on Tuesday with Bloomberg News, said, “Right now I’m going to turn to my family and we’re going to move on to the next chapter.” It is unclear, however, in light of his compensation, what Mr. Grasso’s legacy will be.

In Tuesday’s decision, the New York Supreme Court’s Appellate Division overturned a lower court’s ruling that Mr. Grasso hand over more than $100 million of his compensation.

The decision means the case was not decided on whether Mr. Grasso’s pay had been unreasonable but rather was thrown out because the exchange merged with Archipelago Holdings in 2006, becoming a public company. The appeals court concluded that the attorney general has no standing to sue Mr. Grasso since the exchange has been converted from a nonprofit entity to a for-profit corporation, negating the attorney general’s ability to sue on behalf of the public rather than for private shareholders.

The court also dismissed a single claim against Kenneth Langone, the co-founder of Home Depot and former head of the exchange’s compensation committee, who Mr. Spitzer said had misled the board.

“I have always stood firm for the decisions I made as a director of the N.Y.S.E. and I am glad this case has been resolved with my name and my integrity vindicated,” Mr. Langone said in a statement. “The previous attorney general’s waste of taxpayer resources on this matter ranks as one of the most misguided and irresponsible efforts in the history of that office.”

Mr. Langone said he, Mr. Grasso and the other directors of the exchange had spent $70 million defending themselves, costs that have been covered by insurance.

The end to the case stands in stark contrast to the initial uproar over Mr. Grasso’s pay, and the way Mr. Spitzer brought and pursued the case. The storm started in 2003, when Mr. Grasso’s compensation figure started to leak out. Quickly, the image of Mr. Grasso became a symbol of corporate greed.

Within the exchange, the issue surfaced when Mr. Grasso tried to cash out some of his retirement benefits in 2003. Some directors later said that Mr. Grasso had expressed concern that any future board would be less willing to give him the money, a charge Mr. Grasso has always denied. Whatever the case, the exchange’s compensation committee devised a contract to award him with an immediate lump sum payment of $139.5 million and an additional $48 million to be paid over four years for past and future work.

Some directors, including Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the head of Goldman Sachs, argued against paying out Mr. Grasso’s retirement benefits before retirement. Others, including Mr. Langone, said Mr. Grasso was entitled to money he had earned.

Ultimately, the board approved the payout to Mr. Grasso, who ran the exchange from 1995 until 2003. But when news of the additional $48 million surfaced, the directors demanded Mr. Grasso’s resignation. (Mr. Grasso never received that $48 million.)

Mr. Spitzer then sued Mr. Grasso, saying his pay had been unreasonable under New York’s nonprofit laws and that the amount had not been properly disclosed to directors. Under those laws, the attorney general is empowered to bring cases involving nonprofits on behalf of the public.

At the time, the case was explosive. Virtually none of the traders at the exchange had any sense of the magnitude of Mr. Grasso’s pay. Many were incensed that his pay soared when trading was becoming less profitable and fees were going up.

The case would unveil the inner workings of a board made up of a who’s who of Wall Street. Prosecutors deposed ranks of Wall Street heavyweights, including Mr. Paulson, who is now Treasury secretary, as well as former chief executives of Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns, many of whom had conflicting reports about what they knew and did not know about Mr. Grasso’s pay.

“There was a very visceral and negative reaction from the public when the size of these compensation packages, Grasso and others, were disclosed,” said Carol M. Goodman employment litigator at Herrick Feinstein in New York. “The government responded by asking the courts to declare it was unreasonable, that there was a breakdown in corporate governance, that the compensation was not commensurate with the services rendered by the specific individuals.” The court has rejected those claims under the nonprofit law, Ms. Goodman said.

Mr. Cuomo’s decision to drop the case did not come as a complete surprise. Last week, the New York State Court of Appeals upheld a lower court ruling dismissing four of six counts brought by the attorney general.

“This ruling recognizes the substantial and significant changes the N.Y.S.E. has undergone since the case was brought,” said Richard Adamonis, a N.Y.S.E. Euronext spokesman.
65 2008-07-02 The two people who described the statement said Mrs. Helmsley signed it in 2003 to establish goals for the multibillion-dollar trust that would disburse assets after her death.

The first goal was to help indigent people, the second to provide for the care and welfare of dogs. A year later, they said, she deleted the first goal.

Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for the executors of Mrs. Helmsley’s estate, said they did not want to comment on the statement because they were still working to determine the trust’s direction.

Mrs. Helmsley, the widow of , who built a real estate empire in , was best known for her sharp tongue and impatience with humanity. She became a household name when she was featured in glossy advertisements for the Helmsley hotels. “It’s the only palace in the world where the queen stands guard,” advertisements for the Helmsley Palace proclaimed.

But for many Americans, she later became a symbol of unbridled arrogance and belief in entitlement, particularly after she was convicted in 1989 of $1.2 million in federal income tax evasion, for which she was sent to prison. She was the subject of a 1990 television film, “Leona Helmsley: The Queen of Mean,” with in the title role, and at least three books.

When she died last year at 87, she left all but a few million dollars of her vast estate to what will become one of the nation’s dozen largest foundations when the probate process is finished. She had $2.3 billion in liquid assets when she died, according to the probate petition, and the disposal of her real estate holdings is expected to produce an additional $3 billion to $6 billion.

Even if the resulting total is at the low end of the estimate — $5 billion or so — the trust will be worth almost 10 times the combined assets of all 7,381 animal-related nonprofit groups reporting to the in 2005.

The five executors of her will — Mrs. Helmsley’s brother, Alvin Rosenthal; two of her grandsons, Walter and David Panzirer; her lawyer, Sandor Frankel; and her longtime friend John Codey — have been preoccupied with disposing of the real estate.

They are also the trustees of the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust and, according to the two people who discussed the mission statement, have fretted about the public outcry that disclosure of its terms might incite.

They have reason for concern: News last year that the biggest named beneficiary in Mrs. Helmsley’s will was Trouble, her Maltese, led to death threats against the dog, which now requires security costing $100,000 a year. But they also cannot sit on the liquid assets much longer without raising questions from the attorney general’s office, which oversees the use of charitable assets in New York State.

The trustees recently hired a philanthropic advisory service to help them figure out a way to remain true to Mrs. Helmsley’s intentions while at the same time pursuing broader charitable goals with her foundation.

Judge Renee R. Roth of Surrogate’s Court in Manhattan will also play a role. She has already demonstrated a willingness to be flexible, cutting the size of Trouble’s trust fund to $2 million, from the $12 million prescribed in Mrs. Helmsley’s will, and ordering that the difference be added to the pending charitable trust.

Judge Roth also agreed to a settlement between the trustees and two of Mrs. Helmsley’s grandchildren who were explicitly left out of her will. The agreement gave those grandchildren a combined $6 million.

There are many ways the trustees could spend the Helmsley money on dogs. National groups like the Humane Society of the United States and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have programs dedicated to dogs, and many smaller local groups rescue abandoned and abused dogs.

Or the trustees could use the trust’s money to finance veterinary schools or research on canine diseases.

Her goal of helping dogs was not Mrs. Helmsley’s only posthumous quirk. In her will, she ordered that her tomb, in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., be “acid-washed or steam-cleaned” once a year.

She also made two grandchildren’s combined $10 million inheritance contingent on their visiting their father’s grave, requiring that a registration book be placed in the mausoleum to prove that they had shown up.
66 2008-07-02 “We just have a difference of opinion,” Mr. McCain said, “and I’m a student of history.” He added: “An overwhelming majority of historians will tell you that protectionism and isolationism were a major factor in one of the greatest depressions in the modern history of this country. I’m not going to sit by and see that happen.”

Mr. McCain also stepped up his criticism of Mr. Obama over remarks made on Monday by Wesley K. Clark, the retired general and Obama military adviser, who said he did not think that Mr. McCain’s experience being shot down as a naval aviator in Vietnam was “a qualification to be president.” General Clark stood by his remarks on Tuesday.

Mr. McCain responded, “I think it’s up to Senator Obama now to not only repudiate him, but to cut him loose.”

The trade deal, which would lift tariffs on the majority of goods traded between the United States and Colombia, has recently moved from the political sidelines to the center of the presidential campaign. Mr. McCain supports the deal as essential to free trade and relations with a crucial ally that receives about $600 million a year in counterinsurgency and anti-narcotics aid, but Mr. Obama and many Democrats oppose it because of workers’ fears about job losses overseas and American labor’s concern over the killings of union leaders in Colombia.

The trade deal was signed in 2006, but requires authorization by Congress. In April, the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, set off an angry partisan confrontation when she announced that she would block a vote on it.

Even before Mr. McCain left for Colombia, John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., issued a statement calling the trip “yet one more example of how out of touch he is with working families, and how close he is to corporate special interests.”

Mr. Sweeney added, “hundreds of trade unionists have been systematically murdered, tortured, kidnapped and threatened by paramilitary organizations during the tenure of President Alvaro Uribe, yet Senator McCain will tout the supposed benefits of the proposed U.S.-Colombia F.T.A in the resort city of Cartagena.”

Mr. McCain, with Mr. Uribe standing by, acknowledged that there were still significant problems on several fronts in Colombia, which is beset by left-wing guerillas, right-wing paramilitary death squads and a large drug trafficking industry. (The Drug Enforcement Agency estimates that up to 90 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the United States comes from Colombia, and coca cultivation is surging, despite longstanding American efforts to help Colombia destroy the crops.) But Mr. McCain said that Mr. Uribe had made significant gains.

“I thank you for the success you have achieved at great sacrifice in trying to eliminate drugs,” Mr. McCain said, adding that the strategy to eradicate drugs was working because “the cost of an ounce of cocaine in the street in the United States has significantly increased.”

Mr. Uribe answered no questions at the news conference, but in remarks introducing and praising Mr. McCain, he said that “we also consider the recent comments by Senator Obama regarding Colombia to be positive.” It was unclear on Tuesday night exactly what remarks Mr. Uribe was referring to, though it may have been Mr. Obama’s description of Marxist-inspired Colombian rebels as terrorists.

Mr. Uribe treated Mr. McCain and his traveling party — Mr. McCain’s wife, Cindy, as well as Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut — to near-presidential treatment. After the news conference, the group had dinner with Mr. Uribe and then was to stay overnight at the seaside presidential retreat.

Mr. McCain had no comment on Mr. Uribe’s call last week for a rerun of his 2006 election, the result of a clash between Mr. Uribe and the Colombia Supreme Court. “I can’t take sides in that kind of an issue — that’s a domestic issue,” Mr. McCain told reporters on his plane.
67 2008-07-03 Also in Morning Buzz: the wrangling over a tiny church destroyed at ground zero, a strike by 400 concrete-truck drivers, and other headlines from papers around the region....
68 2008-07-03 Taking Questions: Adam Goldfarb, an issues specialist at the Humane Society of the United States, answered questions about dangerous dogs....
69 2008-07-03 David Corn, left, of Mother Jones and James Pinkerton of Fox News debate whether the recent Supreme Court decisions will rally conservatives.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
70 2008-07-03 The French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt was among the hostages who were rescued by Colombian forces.
71 2008-07-03 The White House announces that President Bush will attend the Opening Ceremony....
72 2008-07-03 The president's brother predicts a win for the Republican candidate....
73 2008-07-03 Samuel Israel III, one-time hedge fund swindler and erstwhile camper, faced a fresh charge of bail jumping on Thursday and was ordered to jail immediately,a day after his mother persuaded him to end a high-profile run from justice. Mr. Israel, who...
74 2008-07-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
75 2008-07-03 A recipe for a Fourth of July party in the yard - and one that all but liberates the cook from slaving over the grill....
76 2008-07-03 Carl C. Icahn has hit a bump along the hedge-fund road. The activist investor's $7.9 billion in hedge funds fell 7 percent between October and April, the biggest peak-to-trough loss since the funds opened in November 2004, Bloomberg News reported ...
77 2008-07-03 Microsoft and Yahoo have been holding separate talks with other potential media partners after their negotiations with each other broke down, Reuters reported citing unnamed sources. Microsoft is talking about alternative deals with Time Warner, w...
78 2008-07-03 As companies like Taylor Wimpey are forced to abandon necessary fundraising efforts, some analysts told The Telegraph that the equity markets are being rocked by the worst conditions in 20 years. The Telegraph reported that companies attempting to...
79 2008-07-03 Premier Investments may drop its A$809 million ($778 million) hostile takeover bid for Australian specialty clothing retailer Just Group after the latter cut earnings forecasts, Bloomberg News reported. "We are currently considering our position i...
80 2008-07-03 SK C&C, a provider of information technology services that is part of Korea's SK conglomerate, has withdrawn its initial public offering, citing weak stock market conditions. The choppy markets have contributed to a sharp decline in the volume of ...
81 2008-07-03 Two more firms shelved plans for initial public offerings in Asia, adding further gloom to a market which recently showed signs of a revival after a dismal start to the year. The news comes on the heels of the shelving of Korea's SK C&C's potentia...
82 2008-07-03 Lawyers for Brian McNamee, Roger Clemens’s former trainer, filed a motion in federal court Wednesday night to have a defamation lawsuit brought by Clemens dismissed.

The motion said the suit should be thrown out because statements McNamee made about Clemens’s use of performance-enhancing drugs are privileged because they came in connection with a federal investigation.

It is the second motion McNamee’s lawyers have brought since Clemens filed the suit against McNamee in January, claiming that McNamee had made defamatory statements when he told investigators for the Mitchell report that he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone. McNamee was encouraged to cooperate with the investigators for the Mitchell report in order to avoid prosecution.

In May, Clemens’s lawyers, in response to the first motion to dismiss, filed an amended complaint to the lawsuit, alleging McNamee made other false statements based on information that was revealed as part of a Congressional investigation into the differing accounts between Clemens and McNamee.
83 2008-07-03 SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) — The Nvidia Corporation, the graphics chip maker, warned on Wednesday that revenue and gross margin would miss analysts’ estimates, partly because of weak demand, sending its shares down 25 percent in late trading.

Nvidia also cited delayed production of a new product and price cuts that resulted from a price war on other chips.

The company expects second-quarter revenue in a range of $875 million to $950 million and said its gross margin would be lower than its internal expectations.

Analysts currently expect Nvidia to have second-quarter revenue of $1.01 billion.

In late electronic trading, Nvidia shares slid to $13.55 after closing at $18.03, down 4 percent on Nasdaq.
84 2008-07-03 “We’re at the point where people really are changing habits,” said Sam Schwartz, a transportation consultant. He said that if gas prices stayed high, the result could be close to the goal set by Mr. Bloomberg’s congestion pricing plan, which, if it had been approved, was expected to reduce traffic in much of Manhattan by 6.3 percent.

“If we start eclipsing $5 a gallon, which we might over the summer, I think we might get very close,” Mr. Schwartz said.

Throughout the country, rising gas prices have had a broad economic impact, hitting especially hard in many cities and suburban communities where people are more dependent on cars than in the transit-dense New York City region.

And while there is no denying that increased costs mean a certain pain for drivers in New York, they may also have the unique effect of meshing with the city’s goal of cutting traffic and, as a consequence, lowering pollution.

Bloomberg administration officials, however, said the actual impact may be slight.

“The magnitude here is by no means comparable to the effect that congestion pricing would have in reducing traffic,” said Bruce Schaller, deputy transportation commissioner for planning and sustainability.

“What congestion pricing does,” he added, “is it focuses traffic reduction on the most congested places and times, whereas gasoline prices spread the impact out.”

Still, the new numbers do bolster a central point of the Bloomberg plan: that higher prices can motivate commuters to give up their cars.

“It shows that pricing matters and that people respond to it,” said Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association.

It is hard to say exactly what the impact of lighter bridge and tunnel traffic has been on the streets of Manhattan — or other boroughs — since the city does not take traffic measurements that show changes from month to month. But there are other indications.

The Metropolitan Parking Association, which represents garage and parking lot owners, said that its members had seen about a 10 percent decrease in daily customers. And gas station managers interviewed in Brooklyn, Queens and New Jersey said that the number of drivers buying gas had also declined.

Interviews with drivers and transit riders indicate, however, that a change in habits has not come easy — and might be reversed if gas prices fall.

“When prices went over $4, I stopped driving,” said Scott Pisciotti, 41, a real estate portfolio manager from Somers, N.Y. Mr. Pisciotti said he used to drive daily to his office in Midtown Manhattan but now rides a Metro-North train from White Plains to Grand Central Terminal. It is a new routine for him, and he has not fully embraced it. “If prices dropped,” he said, “I would drive a lot more.”

Commuter trains have also become more crowded, riders say.

At the Secaucus Junction train station of New Jersey Transit, Brian Simmons, 30, said that it had become much harder to get a seat on the train in recent months. “It’s like the New York City subway,” he said.

Gas price-induced traffic reduction might have a downside. Mr. Bloomberg’s plan was intended, among other things, to raise hundreds of millions of dollars a year for mass transit improvements by charging cars an $8 fee to enter the area of Manhattan below 59th Street. The plan was defeated in April when legislative leaders in Albany refused to bring it up for a vote.

In contrast, the current reduction in traffic at bridges and tunnels could actually take money away from transit, because a large portion of the tolls collected at the transportation authority’s crossings helps to finance the subways, buses and commuter railroads. In May, toll revenues were more than $4 million below budget projections, and Gary J. Dellaverson, the authority’s chief financial officer, said that June toll revenues appeared to be down even further.

So far, the drop has been more than offset by an increase in fare collections generated by higher transit and rail ridership, but Mr. Dellaverson said that the combination of slipping toll revenues and the increased cost of fuel for the authority’s buses and trains could eventually outpace ridership revenue gains.

The rise in gas prices may also be increasing something that congestion pricing was meant to eliminate: the incentive for drivers to avoid tolls by using the free bridges over the East River, causing heavier traffic in the surrounding neighborhoods.

The congestion pricing plan called for a 6.3 percent reduction in the total miles traveled by all vehicles in the pay zone. That is different from simply taking cars off the street since some vehicles, like taxis, are responsible for a higher share of the total miles driven. Mr. Schaller said that to achieve the program’s goal, the city would have needed at least a 10 percent reduction in the number of cars entering the zone.

Mr. Schwartz estimated that a 4 or 5 percent drop at the bridges and tunnels might mean just a 2 or 3 percent reduction in Manhattan traffic.

While some drivers have given up and switched to trains or buses, those who are sticking with their cars say they are driving less.

Singh Bridgemohan, 50, was putting some gas, at $4.35 a gallon, in his red 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee on a recent morning at an Exxon station in Bay Terrace, Queens. Mr. Bridgemohan, who runs a small construction company, said he used to drive his wife, a nanny, from their home in Jamaica to her work in Bayside every day. Now he does it rarely, to save on gas, while she makes a much longer commute by bus.

At a Shell station on the New Jersey side of the Holland Tunnel, Peter Lin, 54, a sales executive from Holmdel, N.J., paid $56.18 to fill up his 2005 Toyota Camry before heading to work in Manhattan. Mr. Lin echoed several drivers who said that an unexpected benefit of higher driving costs was that there are simply fewer cars on the road.

“Do I like the traffic?” he said. “Yes. Do I like the cost of gas? Forget about it.”
85 2008-07-03 Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the Hezbollah leader, confirmed that the group would hand over two captured Israeli soldiers and information on Ron Arad, an Israeli airman missing for two decades, in exchange for five Lebanese prisoners in Israel. Israeli officials have said the two soldiers are dead, but Sheik Nasrallah said he had not given Israel any indication of their fate. Speaking during a Beirut news conference by video link, he said reports that they were dead were “not based on anything tangible.” He said the exchange, which would also include other concessions from both sides, would take place in mid-July. One of the Lebanese prisoners due to be freed by Israel is Samir Kuntar, who is serving multiple life terms for killing four people in Israel in 1979. The Israeli cabinet has approved the swap.
86 2008-07-03 Nascar and the tracks that host Sprint Cup races do not release official attendance figures, but according to Nascar estimates, attendance figures have been lower at 10 of 17 races this season. Attendance has gone up at only one race, the season-opening Daytona 500.

Attendance has dropped at four of the last six races, most notably at the LifeLock 400 at Michigan International Speedway, where an estimated 115,000 fans attended a Sprint Cup race June 15. A crowd estimated at 145,000 attended the same race a year ago.

“Michigan was an eye-opener for us,” the Nascar spokesman Jim Hunter said. “That’s the heart of the automobile industry. That one hit home more than any other because of where it is.”

Hunter said that a hard-core stock car fan usually attends four to six races a year. That number, he said last week, is down to two to four. Ratings for races televised by Fox increased 2 percent over last year, something Hunter said could be attributed to rising gas prices.

“Our hard-core fan, if he’s feeling pinched, he’ll cut back on the number of races that he goes to, because he knows he can see it on TV,” Hunter said.

The announced attendance at Pocono Raceway for a Sprint Cup race on June 8 was 105,000, the same as a year ago, but the infield at the two-and-a-half-mile track was significantly emptier than it had been during past races.

Attendance for the Coca-Cola 600 on Memorial Day weekend at Lowe’s Motor Speedway, near Charlotte, N.C., dropped to 160,000 from 175,000. A week later, attendance at the Best Buy 400 in Dover was 133,000, down from 145,000 in 2007.

“The gas prices are probably the most visible of the obstacles that the customers face,” Denis McGlynn, the president and chief officer at Dover International Speedway, said in a telephone interview last week. “But it’s the hotel room, the food costs — it’s everything all blended in. Those discretionary dollars are just drying up.”

Dover also hosts a Sprint Cup race in September that is the second of 10 races in the Chase to the Sprint Cup, Nascar’s version of the playoffs. McGlynn said some fans might have skipped the June race in favor of going to a more meaningful race later in the year.

Eric Bourgeois, a fan from East Haddam, Conn., took his camper back to New Hampshire this year, but he had something new: a propane grill to cook food that he had bought at a supermarket. He was also parked in a new spot.

“The guy who had it just couldn’t do it anymore,” Bourgeois said. “He just couldn’t afford to do it.”

Gary Baber, a friend of Bourgeois’s, said: “It’s getting to the point where I’m picking and choosing which races I can go to. All the expendable cost is going into the fuel tank. It’s kind of putting a curb on what we love to do.”

Higher gas prices also affect how fans spend their money once they get to the track. Corrine Gaskill, whose father is the president of Race Ready Communications, a company in Absecon, N.J., that sells scanners, staffed a trailer outside New Hampshire Motor Speedway that drew virtually no foot traffic Friday afternoon.

Rita Wilkin of Romney, N.H., about 50 miles from Loudon, is a fan of Dale Earnhardt Jr., who switched teams in the off-season and has new sponsors and a new number, 88, on his car. Wilkin was resisting the urge to buy new Earnhardt merchandise.

“I’m not going to do it this year,” she said.

Meanwhile, Joe Baumann had decided to take the weekend off from Nascar. Baumann, from Erie, Pa., drew attention from Nascar in 2004 for attending all 36 races in what was then the Nextel Cup Series. He plans to attend 20 to 22 races this year.

Many fans say they like to go to the races because they are gathering places as well as spectacles.

But Baumann said he was cutting back because he said he thought the races, with boxier, safer cars, were not as exciting as they used to be. Races, he said, tend to become parades.

“If you’ve been to Bristol, or Martinsville, you know that rubbin’ is racin’,” Baumann said in a telephone interview.

He skipped a trip to Pocono, seven hours to the east in Long Pond, Pa., and attended the race in Michigan because it is 300 miles from his home. A trip to Daytona Beach, Fla., for a July 5 race would cost him $1,200 to $1,300 in diesel fuel to fill up his 40-foot trailer.

Nascar and track officials cannot do much about the price of gas — which was running at $3.95 a gallon on Sunday at the two gas stations closest to New Hampshire Motor Speedway — but they say they can do more to give fans their money’s worth.

Officials at the track, which was purchased late last year by the racing magnate O. Bruton Smith, announced earlier this month that they would hold drawings for $500 gas cards.

They also announced that the music group Kansas would hold a prerace concert, and that the festivities would include a motorcycle show and an elephant race. (The elephant race was canceled because of a lack of permits and health certifications.)

“My job, as a promoter here, is to convince people to come here — to make this race one of the two or three they go to,” said Jerry Gappens, the new general manager of the track. “I want this to be a state fair and a Super Bowl and everything in between.”

Even if he accomplishes that, he knows his job is a lot tougher than it used to be.

“We’re not just competing against race tracks,” he said, “but we’re competing against baseball and football, and we’re competing against all aspects of being entertained.”
87 2008-07-03 Unless Congress closes a gaping hole in the law against war profiteering, companies ripping off taxpayers in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars may never be fully prosecuted. This is because the latest conflicts are not declared wars.

The anti-fraud law dating to World War II allows prosecution of contractors up to three years after a war ends. But this statute of limitations was omitted from the resolutions authorizing military force in Iraq and Afghanistan, which carried no formal war declaration.

Investigators say that current war fraud runs into untold billions, including faulty ammunition and vehicles and not-so-bullet-proof vests. Investigative officials and the inspector general for Iraq reconstruction have testified that they’re hampered by the ongoing conflicts and need more time to catch contract thieves after they end.

The solution is a bipartisan bill clarifying that “war” absolutely includes Congressional authorizations of military force. The repair also wisely allows prosecution for five years after a war. The Senate Judiciary Committee just approved this crucial measure and the rest of Congress should quickly enact it. Or else the loophole will continue to invite war contracting as “a free-for-all with no criminal accountability,” in the words of Senator Charles Grassley, the bill’s Republican sponsor.

The Justice Department, meanwhile, is reportedly sitting on a backlog of more than 900 cases in which whistle-blowers have accused government contractors of billions in fraud, in both military and domestic spending. Long delays bog down the information in secrecy as the department, understaffed and overloaded, weighs whether the allegations have merit, according to The Washington Post.

On both the war front and the home front, the government must do a far more convincing job of going after profiteers who are gouging the taxpayers.
88 2008-07-03 Billy, a 9-year-old Jack Russell terrier who was playing with Sidney, said, “If I had my way, I’d buy every squeaky toy I could get my hands on.”

Also, “more no-kill shelters would be nice,” Billy told her owner, Laura Hughes, a casting director.

“What I would do,” Nina, a 5-year-old beagle-Labrador mix, told her owner, Sarah Levy, a lawyer, between tummy scratches, “is get the biggest jar of peanut butter, and I’d open my own dog run with no other dogs and a thousand people.”

Nikita, a Kerry blue terrier, compulsively scratching her shaggy coat, had her own plans for the money, she assured her owner, Derek Berg, a photographer: “I’d make a special squirrel farm and no skateboarders within two miles — They scare me and get me very angry, mostly the sounds.”

Tearing around the sandy run, Tennessee, a Labrador retriever and Great Pyrenees mix, said he did not want anything for himself, but would use the money to buy a bigger apartment for his owner, Mariel Rittenhouse, a freelance writer, and her boyfriend — while cautioning that $8 billion no longer buys the kind of Manhattan space it used to.

Some hesitated to embrace Ms. Helmsley. “Maybe she is making up for past misdeeds,” said Ethan, a poodle belonging to Claudia Schalb, an art critic.

But many seemed willing to forgive the darker aspects of her record — she went to prison for tax evasion and was widely derided as the Queen of Mean for her exacting and tyrannical ways.

“She left it to us, and she could have just bought more shoes,” said Max, a busily herding border collie and setter mix belonging to Barry Ratoff, an artist.

Froggy had some reservations: “I would think a children’s hospital might have been a better choice.”

Oliver begged to differ. A wire-haired dachshund with impeccable counterterrorism credentials — he worked for a time for Hans Blix, the chief United Nations weapons inspector, sniffing out weapons of mass destruction, said his owner, Laura Bong, a film editor and dog walker — he had some worldly experience others lacked. He sat alone, gazing at the commotion.

“It’s a good idea even though she was not so nice a person,” Oliver said, adding, “I told you there were no weapons of mass destruction there.”

If he didn’t romp much with the other dogs on Wednesday, he had a lot on his mind. “He’s upset about the Zimbabwe election and the gun thing,” Ms. Bong said, adding that Oliver would undoubtedly prefer to be home with “his down comforter and cashmere wrap.”

(Oliver’s claims of overseas service could not be immediately verified.).

Lola, a Chihuahua in a rhinestone collar, interrupted her run to confide a dream to her owner, Samantha Retrosi, a student: a dream of someday owning a collar with real diamonds.

Sappho Nelly, another Chihuahua with extensive training as a therapy dog comforting hospital patients, told her owner, Nina Goedé, an artist and composer from Paris, that the Helmsley billions could be put to good use opening up a shaded small-dog section in the dog run, so that little featherweights like her wouldn’t have to keep looking over their shoulders for the brutes. Cradled in her owner’s arms, she spoke in a fetching French accent.

Another Oliver, a wheaten terrier stopping to gulp water, agreed. “Buy a bigger dog park,” he urged his owner, Erma Eliazov, a brands consultant. “This is gross.”

Across town, in Tompkins Square Park, George Rand, a retired nurse practitioner, sat on a bench with Johnny, an ailing 8-year-old adopted part pit bull found wandering in Brooklyn. Johnny hadn’t read the Helmsley article in The New York Times — “He’s kind of a Daily News kind of dog,” Mr. Rand said.

But he said Johnny would know just what to do with the Helmsley billions.

“He’d keep about $500,000 for medical care and give away the rest,” Mr. Rand said. “He’s that kind of dog.”
89 2008-07-03 Senators Barack Obama and John McCain are at odds over a California ballot initiative that would amend the state’s Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.

Mr. Obama made his position public in a letter he sent last week to the Alice B. Toklas L.G.B.T. Democratic Club, a San Francisco gay rights group.

“I oppose the divisive and discriminatory efforts to amend the California Constitution, and similar efforts to amend the U.S. Constitution or those of other states,” wrote Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee.

But his campaign said that Mr. Obama’s opposition to the initiative, which will appear on the state’s November ballot, did not signal a change in position. He remains opposed to same-sex marriage, but supports civil unions and domestic partnerships.

Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the campaign, said that Mr. Obama took the stance because “as we have seen in some states, enshrining a definition of marriage into the constitution can allow states to roll back the civil rights and benefits that are provided in domestic partnerships and civil unions.”

Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, announced his support for the initiative, the California Marriage Protection Act, last month. If it passes, it would undo a recent California Supreme Court decision that gave same-sex couples the right to marry.
90 2008-07-03 Regulators in Georgia have barred a California company from doing business in their state, saying it violated rules adopted in 2007 to prevent the sale of misleading or unsuitable life insurance policies to military personnel.

Insurance Commissioner John W. Oxendine announced on Wednesday that he had barred Trans World Assurance, based in San Mateo, Calif., and imposed a $214,000 fine, after concluding that the company had committed nearly 200 infractions from September 2007 to last March.

The company was also ordered to reimburse service members for the premiums they paid on policies it sold during that period.

Lawyers for Trans World did not return calls to their offices Wednesday night.

The specific rules involved in the case were adopted as part of Georgia’s response to military and Congressional concern over the sale of unsuitable financial products to young military consumers, described in articles in The New York Times in 2004. Insurance commissioners in many other states adopted similar laws, and began working more closely with military legal authorities to monitor insurance sales to service members.

After a hearing in May, the commissioner determined that the policy that Trans World had sold — which contains provisions for both a death benefit and a cash-accumulation fund — had features that did not comply with the new rules for that kind of policy. These features included its method of computing interest and its imposition of penalties for withdrawals from the cash fund.

The commissioner also ruled that the company had sold the policies to military personnel without first determining whether the product was appropriate for service members covered under the low-cost life insurance provided through the military.
91 2008-07-03 “He calmed troubled waters in an enterprise as complex and with as many diverse personalities as Apollo was,” Mr. Collins said, adding that Dr. Seamans “was the balance” between scientists, engineers, contractors and “sometimes the astronauts.”

Perhaps surprisingly, Dr. Seamans had left NASA a year before the lunar landing, saying that he wanted to “think ahead to what I will do for the last 15 years of my professional life.”

He returned to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he had taught from 1951 to 1955. But not for long. Ten days after he sold his Washington home in 1968, President Richard M. Nixon named him secretary of the Air Force.

While in that post for four years, he successfully pushed for new Air Force weapons systems even as the United States was withdrawing from Vietnam and military spending was being reduced. Dr. Seamans aroused some controversy in 1971 when he said he was “not in the operational chain of command” and had learned about a major bombing campaign against North Vietnam only “when I heard it on ‘The Today Show.’ ”

When asked for his view of the war’s toll on civilians, he told The Washington Post: “War itself is immoral. I have to face life the way it is right at this moment.”

In 1974, President Gerald R. Ford named Dr. Seamans as the first administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration, which, along with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, had replaced the Atomic Energy Commission. ERDA, as it was called, is now considered a precursor of the Department of Energy.

With an annual budget of about $6 billion, a staff of more than 7,000, a complex of federal laboratories and contracts with universities and industrial research organizations, Dr. Seamans faced the fallout from the Arab oil embargo of 1973-4.

On his first day in the job, Dr. Seamans said, “There is no way we can become self-sufficient in 10 years or any time in the future if we keep increasing the use of energy.”

Important elements in energy conservation, he said, would be the development of automobiles that get more than 40 percent better gas mileage and the design of buildings that would be less expensive to heat and cool.

His agency’s first report to Congress in 1975 emphasized greater production of nuclear power, coal, shale oil, crude oil and natural gas over the next decade. But within a year, that report was revised, saying that ERDA would give “the highest priority” to energy conservation.

Robert Channing Seamans Jr. was born in Salem, Mass., on Oct. 30, 1918, the eldest son of Robert and Pauline Seamans. Besides his son Joseph, he is survived by his wife, Eugenia; a brother Donald; two other sons, Robert 3rd and Daniel; two daughters, Katharine Padulo and May Baldwin; 11 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

Science was in Dr. Seamans’s DNA. His great-great-grandfather Otis Tufts constructed the first steam-operated printing press in the United States and invented the steam pile driver.

After graduating from Harvard in 1940, Dr. Seamans earned a master’s degree in aeronautics at M.I.T., in 1942 and a Ph.D. in instrumentology there in 1951.

As part of his doctoral work, he assisted Charles Stark Draper, a pioneer in gyroscope guidance, in developing tracking systems that enabled Navy ships to target enemy planes. Those systems were later used in missile navigation and eventually to guide Apollo astronauts to the moon.

Dr. Seamans joined the Radio Corporation of America in 1955 as director of its missile electronics and control division, a position he held until joining NASA in 1960. In 1977, after three years as head of the federal energy agency, he returned to M.I.T. where, from 1978 to 1981, he was dean of the engineering department. He retired in 1984.

In 1974, shortly after he was named head of the energy administration, Dr. Seamans told The New York Times, “We are never again going to have a cheap-energy situation, and we have got to use every string in our bow if we are going to maintain the lifestyle of this country.”

Photos of rockets and astronauts lined his office, and on a table stood a statue of Don Quixote. “I have always sort of liked him,” Dr. Seamans said.
92 2008-07-03 Shares of Nucor, a steel maker, fell more than 14 percent as investors worried about weakening demand.

“As the energy price spikes higher, it’s crimping global growth further,” said Tobias Levkovich, chief equity strategist at Citigroup. “It’s starting to be a real challenge for global economies.”

The automotive group AAA reported that the average price for a gallon of unleaded gasoline on Wednesday rose to $4.09, a half-cent higher than the day before, almost 12 cents higher than a month ago, and $1.14 above the price of a year ago. The single largest component in the price of a gallon of gasoline is the price of crude oil.

It almost seems like ancient history since a single trader, apparently looking for bragging rights, bid up the price of crude over $100 by buying a small lot on Jan. 2 and then immediately selling it at a small loss. Political unrest, a cold winter and declining oil inventories were singled out as culprits for the jump past $100.

Since then, the prices of oil and gasoline have just kept rising. Over the last three months, the average retail price of unleaded regular gasoline was $3.75 a gallon, nearly 65 cents higher than the average price in the first quarter of the year, according to the Oil Price Information Service. The research group has estimated that Americans are now spending $1.6 billion a day on gasoline, which would make July the first month ever when the American gasoline bill would top $50 billion.

Tom Kloza, the group’s chief oil analyst, predicted that a barrel of oil would reach $155 by August and that retail prices for gasoline would rise to $4.25 to $4.50 a gallon for unleaded regular.

“The firecrackers are going off in the oil market and it will burn the U.S. consumers this holiday weekend,” Mr. Kloza said. He added that truckers stood to suffer most, noting that diesel prices rose 13 cents a gallon Wednesday afternoon in response to the Energy Department report.

“Diesel is the bullet with the most acceleration at the moment,” he said. “ You are going to see a lot of bankruptcies in the trucking business.”

Pushing up the price of crude are any number of factors, including continued instability in Nigeria, a partial strike at Venezuela’s state oil company and reports that Israel is considering an attack on Iran. Yet another reason for oil’s price climb came with the Energy Department’s weekly statistical bulletin, which showed that crude oil stocks had slipped by nearly 2 million barrels to below 300 million barrels.

Analysts say that level is psychologically important because crude oil stocks as recently as last year were above 350 million barrels. The inventory level was the lowest since January, and below what most analysts had expected. The crude oil inventory figure was 54 million barrels below a year ago, and nearly 22 million barrels below the five-year average, according to tabulations by Barclays Capital.

There was also some modestly good news in the report. Gasoline inventories rose 2.1 million barrels to 210.9 million barrels, an indication that gasoline demand is slackening a bit as drivers car-pool, buy more efficient cars, and use more mass transit when it is available.

But while the Energy Department report showed refineries increasing operations a bit, several experts cautioned that gasoline inventories traditionally come down in July and August. This year should be no different, they said, since refineries are having trouble making a profit on gasoline because gasoline prices have not kept pace with oil prices.

Weak profits in the refining business is one reason that energy stocks have been taking a beating, said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for Standard & Poor’s Equity Research. Shares in oil refining and marketing companies in the S.& P. 500-stock index are down more than 47 percent for the year.

In response to the rising cost of oil and gradually falling gasoline demand, refiners have been cutting their production rates for months.

“With the weakness in refinery margins, refiners have had no incentive to build crude oil inventories,” said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an energy analyst at the Energy Policy Research Foundation, a group backed by the oil industry. “In fact, they have been liquidating crude oil inventories. It means that the system is running on a tight basis.”

That tightness means higher gasoline prices even as the national demand for oil is easing for the first time in nearly two decades. The Department of Energy reports that gasoline demand for the week that ended June 27 was down 2.1 percent from the same week a year ago. In comparison, demand for distillate fuels, which include heating oil and diesel, was up nearly 7 percent.

“Supply is struggling to grow worldwide and the feeling is prices have to rise to choke off demand growth,” said Aaron F. Brady, an analyst at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm affiliated with IHS Inc. “I don’t see any barriers,” he added, to further price rises.

The sentiment for ever higher oil prices was summed up in a headline on a daily energy note written on Wednesday by Chris Ruppel, an energy analyst with Execution, an institutional brokerage firm: “Oil: $300 on the Radar Screen.”

Mr. Ruppel says he thinks the $300 price — what he calls “Iran war insurance” — is unlikely. But he said that investors bought nearly 2,000 call option contracts on June 27, permitting them to buy Nymex crude at $300 a barrel for December delivery.

“Those buying these options may want to trust Iranian assurances, but without verification they need the insurance,” Mr. Ruppel wrote.
93 2008-07-03 This week, the latest salvo landed in the pitched battle between Nikon and Canon for the hearts, minds and wallets of serious photographers.

Nikon’s D700, priced at $2,995, packs the considerable abilities of the company’s hefty $5,000 flagship, the D3, into a more svelte 2.2-pound device. It uses the same 12.1-megapixel sensor and processing electronics, similar weather-resistant sealing and a magnesium frame.

Both digital single-lens reflex cameras use “full frame” sensors the size of 35-millimeter film, letting a wide-angle lens really see a broad view. Larger sensors are also more sensitive. The cameras shoot low-grain, colorful, sharp pictures at a light sensitivity setting of ISO 6,400, and they can operate at up to ISO 25,600 with less impressive results.

The D700 will compete most directly with the aging Canon 5D. It lacks a few of the features found in the D3, including a bigger, longer-lasting battery, an extra memory card slot and a faster frame rate. But it adds a mechanism to shake dust from the sensor and the welcome convenience of a built-in flash. MARTY KATZ
94 2008-07-03 Do you have a child who is afraid of the dark? Here’s an $80 solution, from your local toy store.

EyeClops Night Vision goggles (www.jakkspacific.com) use infrared L.E.D.’s that shine a wide beam of infrared light up to 50 feet away. The reflected light is invisible to the eye but not to the onboard camera, which displays the images in a single-eye viewfinder in stark monochrome.

According to Nelo Lucich, the creator of the goggles and a vice president at the toy manufacturer Jakks Pacific, it was the affordability and brightness of the 17 L.E.D.’s that made this type of toy feasible at its price.

Powered by five AA batteries that last about three hours, the entire device straps onto your head with thick rubber straps, like wearing a heavy mask and snorkel, giving you a look that is guaranteed to send the dog into the next room, and the cat up a tree. This could be great fun on Halloween — not only do you look creepy, but you can see where you’re stepping. WARREN BUCKLEITNER
95 2008-07-03 “Fuel Prices Shift Math for Life in Far Suburbs” (news article, June 25) aptly describes the effects of rising gasoline prices on household expenses, particularly for those living in suburban and exurban areas.

But it isn’t merely gas prices affecting housing affordability. It’s the total cost of car ownership: vehicle purchase(s), insurance and maintenance, along with fuel.

Research assessing the role of transportation costs in housing affordability shows that average transportation costs vary greatly depending on location, from 14 percent of household median income in transit-rich, compact communities to 28 percent or more where employment, retail and other amenities are dispersed and more cars are needed per household.

Add that to the 30 percent of income that is the maximum a household should spend on housing, and little discretionary income remains.

Choosing a place to live based on access to transportation options can help families significantly lower their cost of living.
96 2008-07-03 Mr. McCain’s advisers said that Mr. Davis would continue to hold the position of campaign manager, but that Mr. Schmidt had taken over every major operation where Mr. McCain has shown signs of struggling: communications, scheduling and basic political strategy. Mr. McCain’s aides said Mr. Davis would focus now more on longer-term campaign efforts, including helping with the selection of a running mate and planning for the Republican National Convention, which is now just two months away.

Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Davis declined a request for comment. The McCain campaign played down the significance of this latest personnel shift.

“Voters don’t care about the organizational chart of our campaign,” said Jill Hazelbaker, the campaign spokesman, adding: “Today’s move is simply an expression of our understanding of the need to scale up for a general election campaign against Barack Obama.”

Republican circles have been awash with rumors for weeks now that Mr. McCain would seek to bring Mike Murphy, a longtime friend and adviser who helped direct his 2000 campaign for the White House, back into the fold. Mr. McCain’s advisers, noting the deep tensions between Mr. Murphy and many of the people in Mr. McCain’s inner circle — including Mr. Davis and Mr. Schmidt — said such a development was highly unlikely.

Similarly, Mr. McCain’s aides said it was unlikely that John Weaver, Mr. McCain’s longtime friend who left in the midst of the last shake-up, would return. “Not enough bayonets to make me do this,” Mr. Weaver said in an e-mail response to a question.

The last shake-up occurred at the beginning of last July as Mr. McCain’s campaign was bleeding money, riven by infighting, and the candidate was trailing in polls in Iowa and New Hampshire. For all the negative commentary that the first shake-up drew to Mr. McCain, it had its desired result, a reminder that campaign upheavals are not necessarily a bad thing.

In an early insight into the impact of Mr. Schmidt’s new role, the campaign is planning what will amount to a restarting of Mr. McCain’s candidacy after July 4, in which he will tour the country talking about a jobs program and visiting battleground states like Colorado, Wisconsin and Michigan that would illustrate the economic problems he will be talking about.

By contrast, in appearances that drew widespread derision from Republicans — and cheers of delight from Democrats — Mr. McCain delivered a speech last month in which he came out in favor of offshore drilling first before an audience of oil executives in Houston, and repeated it in a speech in Santa Barbara, Calif., a locale long identified with opposition to offshore drilling.

In abandoning Mr. Davis’s idea to have the campaign largely run by 11 regional campaign managers, Mr. Schmidt told associates that he feared that system was unworkable and would lead to gridlock in the campaign. He is also about to hire a political director, a post that had gone unfilled under Mr. Davis.

There were other signs that Republicans were trying to get back on track in the fight with Mr. Obama. The Republican National Committee this week formed an independent expenditure committee to run advertisements on behalf of Mr. McCain. The committee bought time for advertisements this weekend in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan, said Democrats who monitor the purchases.

Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain’s senior advisers and an ally of Mr. Davis, described the changes as a retooling in advance of the general election. Mr. Black said Mr. Schmidt would be the chief operating officer of the campaign, serving under Mr. Davis, in charge mostly of helping Mr. McCain settle on a message and get it out with speeches, advertisements and surrogate events.

“He is going to be the chief choreographer,” Mr. Black said of Mr. Schmidt.

Yet by every appearance — including the broad portfolio Mr. McCain has handed Mr. Schmidt — it is clear that he is running the operation, Republicans involved in the campaign said.

Mr. Schmidt, who is 37, is one of the most intense, hard-driving figures in his party today: when he worked for Mr. Bush, his nickname in the campaign was “The Bullet,” a reference to the shape of his shaved head.

He has been at the center of some of the most politically significant Republican operations of the last 10 years. In working with Mr. Rove and Ken Mehlman, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, Mr. Schmidt has become immersed in the use of data-driven methods to find and turn out Republican voters.

He also ran the campaign’s war room, which was responsible for capitalizing on mistakes of opponents; Mr. McCain’s advisers said that one sign of Mr. Schmidt’s increasing influence in the campaign’s rapid response operation was the quickness with which it seized on a remark by Gen. Wesley K. Clark questioning whether Mr. McCain’s years in Vietnam gave him the experience he needed to be president.

Mr. Schmidt also ran the successful re-election campaign of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the California Republican who won in a Democratic state by embracing moderate positions on issues like the environment and gay rights. Mr. Schmidt also served as communications director for the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, a job that presumably offered him the kind of district-by-district political education that could prove helpful in making decisions about where to send Mr. McCain and what he should talk about.

The shift comes after what even Mr. McCain’s aides acknowledged has been a squandered period of time since he claimed the nomination in February. Mr. McCain spent Wednesday in Colombia, his second overseas trip in a week, and one that he took despite the urging of Republicans who said he needed to convey his concerns about domestic problems to voters at home.

“Somebody asked, ‘What’s the strategy behind this?’ ” Mr. Black said of the foreign travel. “It’s simple. McCain says he wants to go to these places, and we say, of course.”

But, Mr. Black added, the trip should help to underline “one of the big contrasts in this race: Obama wants to become the first protectionist president in our history since Herbert Hoover.”
97 2008-07-03 AT the finale of the Armani men’s wear presentation in Milan 10 days ago, the lights in the theater suddenly went dark. When they flashed on again, the runway was filled with models striking poses in the Indian-inspired dhotis, band-collared jackets and vivid silks that were a major theme of the collection. Out went the lights again as the models hustled to get into yoga poses on the floor. When the illumination returned, all the pretties were facing the head of the runway, where Giorgio Armani was bathed in a pool of light, arms raised as if he were a fashion guru.

Mr. Armani may as well have been chanting a mantra on the lips of many in the fashion business lately. Not as euphonious as om shanti shanti, the words “IndiaEmergingMarket,” run together, seem destined to produce inner bliss in the minds of designers seeking new brand frontiers.

Although no one seems able to gauge the size of India’s prospering classes (the most common figures assert that India’s middle class numbers 200 million — a number that the writer Shashi Tharoor, among others, derides as being predicated on ownership of a bike), there is no arguing with the country’s 9 percent annual growth rate.

In cities like Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata and New Delhi, malls are being built almost faster than call centers and IT campuses. What is significant about this is that until now, Western luxury brands were restricted to selling their goods in stores in the lobbies of high-end hotels. All that will change next month when the five-story 320,000-square-foot Emporio mall opens in an upscale residential neighborhood of South Delhi.

Like shopping destinations everywhere, the Emporio mall will feature the requisite spa and Nobu-style Japanese restaurant. It will also have 34 Indian designers among its tenants. More important, it will offer brands like Vuitton, Dior, Fendi, Cartier, Paul Smith and others that have been slow to break into the lucrative South Asian market. And it will have Armani’s first Indian store.

“We obviously see India as an important emerging market of the future,” said Robert Triefus, Armani’s executive vice president for global communications. Armani will add stores in Mumbai and Bangalore within the year, Mr. Triefus said, exporting chic silk shantung dhotis to the land of Gandhi and hand-loomed khadi cloth.
98 2008-07-03 Mr. Rove, who was Mr. Bush’s senior political adviser until he left the White House last year, was said by Mr. McCain’s advisers to have offered advice in recent days to Mr. Schmidt and others on how to get Mr. McCain’s campaign on track, but has stayed mostly on the periphery. Mr. Rove is aware, his associates said, that his own legacy could be helped should Mr. McCain win the presidency.

Mr. McCain’s advisers said that Mr. Davis would continue to hold the position of campaign manager, but that Mr. Schmidt had taken over every major operation where Mr. McCain has shown signs of struggling: communications, scheduling and basic political strategy. Mr. McCain’s aides said that Mr. Davis would now focus more on longer-term campaign efforts, including helping with the selection of a running mate and planning for the Republican National Convention, which is now just two months away.

Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Davis declined a request for comment. The McCain campaign played down the significance of this latest personnel shift.

“Voters don’t care about the organizational chart of our campaign,” said Jill Hazelbaker, the campaign spokesman, adding: “Today’s move is simply an expression of our understanding of the need to scale up for a general election campaign against Barack Obama.”

Republican circles have been awash with rumors for weeks now that Mr. McCain would seek to bring Mike Murphy, a longtime friend and adviser who helped direct his 2000 campaign for the White House, back into the fold. Mr. McCain’s advisers, noting the deep tensions between Mr. Murphy and many of the people in Mr. McCain’s inner circle — including Mr. Davis and Mr. Schmidt — said such a development was highly unlikely.

Similarly, Mr. McCain’s aides said it was unlikely that John Weaver, another longtime McCain friend who left in the midst of the last shake-up, would return. “Not enough bayonets to make me do this,” Mr. Weaver said in an e-mail response to a question.

The last shake-up occurred at the beginning of last July as Mr. McCain’s campaign was bleeding money, riven by infighting, and the candidate was trailing in polls in Iowa and New Hampshire. For all the negative commentary that shake-up drew to Mr. McCain, it had its desired result, a reminder that campaign upheavals are not necessarily a bad thing.

In an early insight into the impact of Mr. Schmidt’s new role, the campaign is planning what will amount to a restarting of Mr. McCain’s candidacy after Independence Day, in which he will tour the country talking about a jobs program and visiting battleground states intended to illustrate the economic woes he will be talking about: Colorado, Wisconsin and Michigan.

By contrast, in appearances that drew widespread derision by Republicans — and whoops of delight from Democrats — Mr. McCain delivered a speech in which he came out in favor of off-shore drilling first before an audience of oil executives in Houston, and repeated it in a speech in Santa Barbara, Calif., a locale long identified with opposition to off-shore drilling.

In abandoning Mr. Davis’s idea to have the campaign largely run by 11 regional campaign managers, Mr. Schmidt told associates that he feared that system was unworkable and would lead to gridlock in the campaign. He is also about to hire a political director, a post that had gone unfilled under Mr. Davis.

There were other signs that Republicans were trying to get back on track in the fight with Senator Obama. The Republican National Committee this week formed an independent expenditure committee to run advertisements on behalf of Mr. McCain. The committee bought time for advertisements this weekend in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan, said Democrats who monitor the purchases.

Charlie Black, one of Mr. McCain’s senior advisers and an ally of Mr. Davis, described the changes as a retooling before the general election. Mr. Black said that Mr. Schmidt would be the chief operating officer of the campaign, serving under Mr. Davis, in charge mostly of helping Mr. McCain settle on a message and get it out with speeches, advertisements and surrogate events.

“He is going to be the chief choreographer,” Mr. Black said of Mr. Schmidt.

Yet by every appearance — including the broad portfolio Mr. McCain has handed Mr. Schmidt — it is clear that he is running the operation, Republicans involved in the campaign said.

Mr. Schmidt, 37, is one of the most intense, hard-driving figures in his party today: when he worked for Mr. Bush, his nickname in the campaign was “The Bullet,” a reference to the shape of his shaved head.

He has been at the center of some of the most politically significant Republican operations of the last 10 years. In working with Mr. Rove and Ken Mehlman, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, Mr. Schmidt has become immersed in the use of data-driven methods to find and turn out Republican voters.

He also ran the Bush campaign’s war room, which was responsible for capitalizing on mistakes of opponents. Mr. McCain’s advisers said that one sign of Mr. Schmidt’s increasing influence in the campaign’s rapid response operation was the quickness with which it seized on a remark by Gen. Wesley K. Clark questioning whether Mr. McCain’s experience as a naval aviator shot down over Vietnam had qualified him to be president.

Mr. Schmidt ran the successful re-election campaign of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the California Republican who won in a Democratic state by embracing moderate positions on issues like the environment and gay rights.

Mr. Schmidt also served as communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee, a job that presumably offered him the kind of district-by-district political education that could prove helpful in making decisions about where to send Mr. McCain and what he should talk about.

The shift comes after what even Mr. McCain’s aides acknowledged has been a squandered period of time since he claimed the nomination in February. Mr. McCain spent Wednesday in Colombia, his second overseas trip in a week, and one that he took despite the urging of Republicans who said he needed to convey his concerns about domestic problems to voters at home.

“Somebody asked, ‘What’s the strategy behind this?’ ” Mr. Black said of the foreign travel. “It’s simple. McCain says he wants to go to these places, and we say, of course.”

But, Mr. Black added, the trip should help to underline “one of the big contrasts in this race: Obama wants to become the first protectionist president in our history since Herbert Hoover.”
99 2008-07-03 “I thank you for the success you have achieved at great sacrifice on the part of Colombian citizens in trying to eliminate the flow of drugs and the struggle against the FARC and other paramilitary groups that have caused so much difficulty for the Colombian people,” Mr. McCain said at the news conference. “And I also want to urge you to continue your efforts, as I know you will, to free those people who are being held by the FARC. Our thoughts and prayers will always go out to the three American citizens who have been held captive for a number of years.”

Mr. McCain mentioned the American hostages again during another news conference in Cartagena on Wednesday shortly before he learned the news of the rescue.

Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. McCain took a fast ride on a drug interdiction boat in the Bay of Cartagena, a major exit point for illegal drugs from Colombia. “We have a long way to go to stem the flow of drugs into the United States of America,” Mr. McCain said at the news conference.

In the same session with reporters, Mr. McCain also denied a denied a recollection from Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, that he had roughly grabbed an associate of President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua and lifted him out of his chair during a trip to Central America in 1987.

“McCain was down at the end of the table and we were talking to the head of the guerrilla group here at this end of the table and I don’t know what attracted my attention,” Mr. Cochran said in an interview with the Sun Herald in Biloxi, Miss. “But I saw some kind of quick movement at the bottom of the table and I looked down there and John had reached over and grabbed this guy by the shirt collar and had snatched him up like he was throwing him up out of the chair to tell him what he thought about him or whatever.”

Mr. Cochran, who has spoken about Mr. McCain’s temper in the past, added, according to the newspaper: “I don’t know what he was telling him but I thought, ’Good grief, everybody around here has got guns and we were there on a diplomatic mission.’ I don’t know what had happened to provoke John, but he obviously got mad at the guy.”

Asked about Mr. Cochran’s remarks, Mr. McCain said, “It’s simply not true,” although he acknowledged, “I must say, I did not admire the Sandinistas.” Then he added, “There was never anything of that nature and it just didn’t happen.”
100 2008-07-03 Robert C. Seamans Jr., NASA's nuts-and-bolts manager of the Apollo moon-landing program, who later served as secretary of the Air Force and then as the first administrator of the federal energy research agency, died Saturday at his home in Beverly...
101 2008-07-03 FACING JUSTICE Samuel Israel III, below, the fugitive hedge fund manager, turned himself in to authorities in Southwick, Mass., after faking his suicide last month while on his way to serve a prison sentence for defrauding investors out of $450 mi...
102 2008-07-04 Karl Rove used a speech on Friday before a prominent anti-abortion group to attack Senator Barack Obama for his abortion rights positions and praise Senator John McCain for his family values....
103 2008-07-04 It took nearly 24 hours but Rafael Nadal finally learned which unlikely, stubble-faced veteran he will be facing in the Wimbledon semifinal.

Arnaud Clement of France and Rainer Schuettler of Germany started their quarterfinal match on Wednesday while Nadal was in the process of overwhelming British hopeful Andy Murray on Centre Court.

But darkness forced Clement and Schuettler off Court 1 with their match even at one set apiece. And while Nadal rested and recovered (not that he needed much) on Thursday, Clement and Schuettler returned to Court 1 for what was essentially a best-of-three set match.

It still turned into a marathon between two men whose career highlights came in the early 2000s when each reached Australian Open finals but whose rankings have since slipped dramatically. Schuettler, a 32-year-old German ranked 94th, won the third set, holding on after blowing a 6-0 lead in the tiebreaker. Clement, a 30-year-old Frenchman ranked 145th, then rallied from a 1-4 deficit to win the fourth, removing his sunglasses between points and taking his time to fight through a nervy tiebreaker in which Schuettler saved three set points before finally succumbing.

In the fifth, Schuettler saved a match point on his serve at 4-5, ad-out with a forehand winner off a tentative Clement shot. Though Schuettler tried and failed to serve out the match at 6-5, he eventually got the very tricky job done at 7-6 to win 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (6), 6-7 (7), 8-6.

In total, the two-day match took five hours and 12 minutes, and the prize was a most unexpected spot for Schuettler in the semifinals. “I had plans for the second week already, so I had to postpone those a bit,” he said with a laugh.
104 2008-07-04 Twenty years later, Mr. Duberstein still describes the plan with relish:

Mr. Reagan would speak on the opening night and fly out the next morning, just as Mr. Bush was arriving. “We agreed to meet on the tarmac,” Mr. Duberstein said. “The two of them would embrace, and make brief remarks, and Bush would escort Reagan off to Air Force One, and salute the president as he departed New Orleans and the convention. And then George Bush would get in his motorcade after saluting Ronald Reagan, and go downtown to be the nominee of the Republican Party.”

In St. Paul, Mr. Bush will speak on the convention’s opening night, said Dana Perino, the White House press secretary — a tiny bit of news from an administration that typically keeps a close hold on the president’s schedule. The White House and the McCain campaign said the details were still being worked out. But one Republican close to Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the president would give “an important speech” but that a joint appearance was “highly unlikely.”

Democrats face a similar quandary this year in figuring out what to do about former President Bill Clinton after the bitter nominating battle between his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the party’s presumptive nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois.

In 2000, when Vice President Al Gore became the nominee in Los Angeles, Mr. Clinton made a grand entrance into the convention hall, winding his way through the backstage maze, his every move tracked by television cameras as though he were a late-night comic or football hero about to run onto the field. “Elvis was most definitely in the building,” said Chris Lehane, a former top strategist for Mr. Gore, recalling the moment.

Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore had a joint appearance in Michigan just before the convention. But by the time Mr. Gore arrived in Los Angeles, Mr. Clinton was long gone, a move that Mr. Lehane said had been designed to “balance benefiting from voters’ desires to continue the Clinton approach while allowing Gore to take the torch and emerge from the large Clinton shadow.”

This year, of course, Mr. McCain is trying to escape from Mr. Bush’s shadow. Most Republicans say Mr. Bush should play whatever role Mr. McCain wants him to. Some, like Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California, simply wish Mr. Bush would keep out of it, though few would say so openly.

“I don’t think there are a lot of people who want to see him at the convention,” said Mr. Rohrabacher, who is especially irked with Mr. Bush for his stance on immigration. He said the president “should stay home from the Republican convention, and everybody would be better off.”

But others, like Rob Portman, a former congressman and budget director for Mr. Bush, say Mr. McCain would be unwise to put too much distance between himself and the sitting president. “The president’s approval rating among Republicans’ base voters who are needed for a successful McCain campaign is relatively high,” Mr. Portman said.

That is the crux of the Republicans’ 2008 convention quandary. If the imagery coming out of St. Paul looks like a McCain-Bush hug fest, the Arizona senator will turn off voters who are through with Mr. Bush and want to move past him. If the imagery looks like Mr. McCain is trying to file for some kind of Republican divorce, it will turn off party conservatives who are already skeptical of Mr. McCain.

So Republicans may just have to grit their teeth.

“The assumption would be that there will be some kind of physical handoff,” said Mr. Jones, the former spokesman for both Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain. “I think there is a sense that they would appear together. He is the sitting president; he’s still popular among hard-core Republicans; McCain has some issues with hard-core Republicans. Some people will say this was a bad way to play it, but I think it’s one of those things where you have to run through it, and do it, and embrace it.”
105 2008-07-04 EUGENE, Ore. — Before the start of the men's 400-meter final on Thursday, the miler Alan Webb approached LaShawn Merritt, a fellow Virginian, and told the quarter miler, "Run all the way through that line."

Merritt responded, "I'm running a 402-meter race tonight," then won wire-to-wire over Jeremy Wariner, the defending Olympic champion.

Webb had more preliminary duty at the Olympic track and field trials, running the first round of the 1,500 meters. Still, he took the lead by the 800-meter mark in his heat and ran the night's fastest time of 3 minutes 41.27 seconds, advancing easily to Friday's semifinal round.

The 1,500 final is scheduled for Sunday. There remains much uncertainty about Webb's chances of grabbing an Olympic spot, but he ran the final 400 in 55.1 seconds on Thursday, feeling reasonably comfortable and somewhat liberated after a rough early season in which he overtrained in his zeal to qualify for the Beijing Games.

"I needed to spread my wings a little bit and just feel good," said Webb, the American record holder in the mile. He added: "It always feels good to finish first, no matter when it is."

Four years ago, Webb ran away with the 1,500 at the Olympic trials. Last year, he ran the world's fastest time in the event at 3:30.54. Last month, though, he could do no better than seventh in the mile here at the Prefontaine Classic. But he said this week that he felt strong and confident heading into the Olympic trials.
106 2008-07-04 Chinese steel mills have reached an iron ore agreement with the mining company BHP Billiton in line with the near-doubling of prices won by BHP’s rival Rio Tinto, Chinese industry sources said. Confirming a report in The Australian Financial Review, the industry sources in Beijing said the mills had reached an accord with BHP on Thursday. It had taken time to study the deal, which initially was hammered out between Rio Tinto and China’s largest iron and steel maker, Baosteel, they said. Baosteel said last month it had agreed to pay up to 96.5 percent more for its iron ore under a term contract with Rio.
107 2008-07-04 There is every reason to celebrate the daring rescue from FARC guerrillas of the Colombian-French politician Ingrid Betancourt, three American military contractors and 11 members of the Colombian security forces. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia still holds many more hostages. But the operation by undercover Colombian commandos — who tricked the rebels into handing over the captives without a shot — offered further evidence that the guerrilla group is in disarray.

President Álvaro Uribe should now capitalize on that disarray and offer the rebels, who long ago traded the business of political liberation for drug trafficking, a political settlement.

Ms. Betancourt was raised in France but had returned to Colombia for a run for the presidency when she was seized six years ago. The three American contractors who were held with her were doing anti-narcotics work when their plane was shot down five years ago.

The rescue (pulled off with intelligence from the United States) was another coup for Mr. Uribe’s relentless assault on the FARC, which he has waged with billions in American aid. The movement has lost three of its top seven commanders in recent months, and defectors say the forces are increasingly fractured. The FARC is still flush with drug money and still holds more than 700 hostages. The rebels are unlikely to be so easily tricked again, and an all-out assault could cost many lives.

Mr. Uribe should instead press for a political settlement. Any deal must require the rebels to fully disarm and get out of the business of drug trafficking and extortion. In exchange, Mr. Uribe could offer amnesty for most guerrillas and the possibility to participate in Colombian politics.

Given the huge sums that the United States has spent backing the Colombians’ fight against the FARC, President Bush and Senators John McCain and Barack Obama should now join in congratulating Mr. Uribe — and in urging him to press for a full political victory.
108 2008-07-04 It makes sense to think of the Fourth of July as the start of a season and not as a one-day holiday moored off by itself. But it takes the éclat of a single, explosive day to capture the sense of release, the promise, of the Declaration of Independence.

It was conceived and written and revised over a long season of its own but became a living document in the lives of ordinary Americans on this day. It marked an end of “patient sufferance” under tyranny, the end of “allegiance to the British Crown” and an affirmation of natural rights that this nation still embodies.

The date is arbitrary. The Fourth of July might well have been the Ninth of December or the Eleventh of February. But we are especially glad we get to celebrate the Fourth in July. It is the buoy, or perhaps the cannonade, that marks the beginning of high summer.

The early vegetables in the garden are over, and now is about the time when the lettuce thinks about bolting. The weeds along the lake edge are coming on thick and strong, and the ponds are nearly all covered with a solid mat of green. High summer is the time of black shade in the woods and black underbellies on the thunderheads that seem to billow up out of the muggy afternoons. The city streets and the asphalt rooftops cling to your feet as you walk across them, and the puddles from a sudden downpour rise up in steam. Pedestrians find themselves hoping for a wisp of breeze, and hoping that that wisp will be the leading edge of a cold front that will scour the city clean, a breeze blowing in straight from the Dakotas.

After the Fourth, many of the locals in places like coastal Maine and the Berkshires begin to feel that they had better stay home, because the hordes have come again. There is always enough daylight to share, but never quite enough space on the ferries or the highways or the sidewalks. This is a good day to be sitting on an ice chest full of something cold to drink in your own backyard, watching the grill smoke and waiting for the fireworks off in the distance that say high summer has finally come. That’s how much better it is to be celebrating the Fourth of July than the Ninth of December or the Eleventh of February.
109 2008-07-04 Mr. McCain spoke in the enormous, gleaming command center for Mexico’s federal police, which opened last month and serves as a symbol of the country’s efforts to crack down on a drug trade that is growing increasingly bloody and threatening to Mexicans.

Despite Mr. McCain’s lauding of the $400 million in anti-narcotics assistance for Mexico that Congress approved last week, the country remains in the grip of an armed struggle with drug cartels that has thrown large parts of it into lawlessness that has more recently spread to the capital, with the killings of top police commanders.

In a sign of the tight security in the high-crime Ixtapalapa neighborhood, which Mr. McCain visited, police officers working the perimeters were not told whom they were protecting.

“There have been various attacks against officials,” explained Jorge Alberto Hernandez Perez, a traffic police officer outside the federal police station that Mr. McCain visited. “That’s why they don’t announce it.” He thought it was a Mexican government official who was arriving, not an American senator running for president.

Mexicans have become inured to reports of daily drug violence, but the day Senator McCain arrived, Wednesday, was particularly gruesome: Four decapitated bodies were found near a threatening message against one of Mexico’s top drug lords in the northern city of Culiacán, where the battle over drugs has centered. The police later killed four gunmen in a shootout in Culiacán and recovered an arsenal of weapons in a safe house.

Mr. McCain met privately with President Felipe Calderón of Mexico at Los Pinos, the presidential residence. Mr. Calderón, even in public, has become a blunt critic of American policies he sees as counter to Mexican interests, strongly criticizing the border wall that has gone up under the Bush administration and the focus on criminalizing migrants.

Mr. McCain’s previous emphasis on the need for revamping American immigration laws is far more in line with Mexican public opinion than his new emphasis on first cracking down on illegal border crossers.

Mr. McCain, who flew to Phoenix on Thursday afternoon, was in Mexico on the third and final day of a Latin American tour intended to promote himself as a seasoned foreign policy hand compared with Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee.

The trip also showed Mr. McCain in touch with Latinos and Catholics, two key voting blocs in the fall election.

During the tour of the Basilica of Guadalupe, Mr. McCain was blessed by Msgr. Diego Monroy, the rector. For several minutes, the monsignor had one hand on Mr. McCain’s forehead and another on his shoulder as he offered the blessing.

Later, Monsignor Monroy told Mexican reporters that he was certainly not picking sides.

“I receive everyone, any color, any ideology,” he said. “This is the home of God.”

At Mr. McCain’s side at the basilica was Jeb Bush, the president’s brother, who weighed in on Mr. McCain’s prospects in the presidential race.

“I think he’s going to win,” Mr. Bush, who was in Mexico on business, told a few reporters who caught up with him at the basilica. “He just needs to be himself and not let Senator Obama redefine himself.”

Mr. Obama has announced no plans to venture south of the border before Election Day, but his half-sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, is planning to headline a private fund-raiser in Mexico City on July 22. Lunch costs $250 and dinner, $1,000, and only American citizens can contribute.
110 2008-07-04 Other world leaders have wrestled with question of attending the opening ceremonies. Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain found a neat solution: he will be at the closing ceremony to pick up the torch for the symbolic handoff to London, the host of the 2012 games. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, will not attend, although German officials who announced her decision said it was not a political statement.

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who has waffled on whether he would attend, said earlier this week that he would make his final decision contingent on progress in talks between the Chinese and representatives of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of Tibet. But on Thursday, China bluntly told Mr. Sarkozy to stay home.

“Chinese people do not want the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to attend the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics,” the state newspaper China Daily said, citing an Internet survey by Sina.com.cn.

The White House announcement drew a rebuke from officials at Save Darfur, a nonprofit organization that accuses China, Sudan’s biggest trading partner, of failing to use its influence to stop fighting between rebels and militias in Darfur, where at least 200,000 people have been killed, according to published mortality surveys, and 2.5 million have been driven from their homes in what the White House terms a genocide.

“We are deeply disappointed,” the coalition’s president, Jerry Fowler, said.

On Capitol Hill, some lawmakers, led by two representatives — Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii, and Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California — have urged a boycott of the Games. In a telephone interview from California, Mr. Rohrabacher accused the president of timing the announcement so that reaction from members of Congress would be muted.

“I think that a president who has said we are conducting warfare in different parts of the world in order to promote democracy and human rights loses credibility when he announces that he is going to attend the opening ceremonies of the Olympics in a country that is the world’s worst human rights abuser,” Mr. Rohrabacher said.

Mr. Bush has long said that the United States and China have a “complex relationship,” and as president he has found it difficult to balance.

After accepting an invitation from President Hu Jintao of China to attend the Olympics, Mr. Bush met publicly with the Dalai Lama — a step the Chinese regarded as a poke in the eye. After the Chinese cracked down in Tibet during violent antigovernment protests, Mr. Bush pressed Mr. Hu to restart talks with the Dalai Lama’s representatives. Those talks are now under way, though Ms. Perino said that was not why Mr. Bush decided to attend the opening ceremonies.

“I wouldn’t say there was a quid pro quo,” she said.
111 2008-07-04 Four years later, Mr. O’Neill wrote this, without quotation marks or attribution to Professor Dailey: “Bounded rationality is not a refutation of the rational actor model; to the contrary, it seeks to recalibrate the neoclassical model to take account of predictable cognitive limitations and biases. Despite occasional references to irrationality in the literature, there is nothing especially irrational about bounded rationality.”

In an interview on Thursday in the dining room of his home in Chevy Chase, Md., Mr. O’Neill was contrite about the duplications, blaming “a poor work method.” He said he often mingled research materials and his own work in a single computer file. “I didn’t keep appropriate track of things,” he said. “I frankly did a poor and negligent job.”

Mr. O’Neill, a boyish 46-year-old who wore jeans and a wrinkled blue button-down shirt, said he had never knowingly passed off other scholars’ statements as his own. “So much of it is sort of dry and straightforward stuff,” he said. “To me, it all sounds generic and plain. I didn’t catch it.”

Deborah L. Rhode, an authority on legal ethics at Stanford, said the retraction by the Supreme Court Economic Review was “extremely unusual” and amounted to “a textbook case of conduct that casts doubt on someone’s fitness for judicial office.”

“That’s a serious form of misconduct in an academic career,” Ms. Rhode said. “I would think it would be viewed equally seriously in a judicial career. In my judgment, that would be disqualifying.”

In an interview, Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who was chairman of the Judiciary Committee until last year, said he had known for some time about the questions concerning Mr. O’Neill’s scholarship.

“I heard him out on it and put it in the balance of everything else I knew about him,” Mr. Specter said. “I believe he is an excellent prospect for the district court.”

“He was my chief counsel and staff director at a very difficult time,” Mr. Specter continued, referring to the nominations of Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito, the withdrawn Supreme Court nomination of Harriet E. Miers and a host of legal issues, including civil rights, bankruptcy and asbestos litigation.

Mr. Specter said Mr. O’Neill’s nomination “has been thoroughly vetted on a number of levels,” including by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the White House. “I was told it went to the president,” he said.

Emily A. Lawrimore, a White House spokeswoman, said Mr. O’Neill had been “completely forthcoming” from the start of the vetting process and had “expressed remorse for his actions.”

“He was highly recommended to President Bush,” Ms. Lawrimore said of Mr. O’Neill, “and the president is confident he will make an excellent judge.”

Friends and colleagues describe Mr. O’Neill as a creative, fair and exceptionally able lawyer. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University and Yale Law School, and he served as a law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court and Judge David B. Sentelle of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He is working on a master’s degree in writing fiction.

The flawed 2004 article was not an isolated incident. Passages in the other articles by Mr. O’Neill, now an associate professor at George Mason University School of Law, also bear striking similarities to other scholars’ work.

Shown a copy of a 2000 article by Mr. O’Neill in the Brigham Young University Law Review, Gerald M. Caplan, a former Justice Department official and former dean of the McGeorge School of Law in Sacramento, said it included a verbatim reproduction of a passage from a 1985 article he wrote in the Vanderbilt Law Review. Mr. O’Neill did not quote or cite Professor Caplan.

“Well, he’s got me word for word,” Professor Caplan said.

“And there is some evidence that it’s not innocent or inadvertent,” he added, referring to the nature and extent of the duplication.

“It shows him to disadvantage,” Professor Caplan said. “If I were on the Judiciary Committee, I would want to know more.”

Similarly, parts of a 2000 article by Mr. O’Neill in the George Mason Law Review bear a striking similarity to a 1997 article in the Michigan Law Review by Neal Kumar Katyal.

Professor Katyal, of the Georgetown University Law Center, said he knew Mr. O’Neill and admired him.

“Mike is an innovative thinker and has always had integrity in my many dealings with him,” Professor Katyal said. “I can’t imagine that he would intentionally copy this banal point from my article.”

Daniel D. Polsby, an editor of the Supreme Court Economic Review and the dean of the George Mason School of Law, said he had learned about the similarities to the book review in a letter from its author, Professor Dailey. (Professor Dailey declined to comment.)

“It was my opinion at the time that this was negligent behavior,” Dean Polsby said, “and he was duly chastised. The idea of O’Neill committing a theft is just impossible. It’s just impossible.”

But the law school and Mr. O’Neill agreed that the lack of attribution in the article would have serious consequences for him as a law professor. “By agreement, by a handshake,” Dean Polsby said, “he stepped away from tenure and will reapply for it.”

Mr. O’Neill said the law school’s investigation concluded that his conduct had not been willful.

“The range of possible sanctions was a hug and a cookie to firing you,” he said. “They felt like it was a significant mistake on my part. They didn’t think it was intentional.”

Asked how he would have viewed a judicial nominee like himself in his old job on the Judiciary Committee, Mr. O’Neill answered elliptically.

“I’ve tried to have a decent reputation with people,” he said. “It’s certainly my fault. You’d like to be not just defined by the mistakes that you make in life.”
112 2008-07-04 You correctly note the frustrating delays in Florida’s process of restoring voting rights.

Additional facts reveal how unfair and illogical the process is.

Approximately 30 percent of all individuals ineligible for rights restoration under Gov. Charlie Crist’s new policy cannot have their voting rights restored because they owe restitution. This requirement also disadvantages victims owed restitution because restoration of rights is required for many jobs requiring state licenses.

Additionally, the Florida Parole Commission has a backlog of about 60,000 rights restoration cases, with another 4,000 added every month.

Rather than provide the necessary financing to deal with this backlog, the state slashed the Parole Commission’s budget by 20 percent, eliminating nine staff positions that handle clemency.

If Governor Crist truly believes in rights restoration, he would push for the adoption of rules similar to the Clemency Rules of 1975, which restored voting rights to all individuals upon completion of sentence. Muslima Lewis

The writer is a senior attorney and director, Racial Justice and Voting Rights Projects, American Civil Liberties Union of Florida.
113 2008-07-04 I was very surprised to see in the column by Charles M. Blow that only about 20 percent of those over 55 agreed that John McCain’s age made it a reason not to vote for him.

I am only 67 and fit. I swim laps and walk everywhere, and I have no medical problems. Yet I am 100 percent certain that I would not want the grueling job of president. This is a task for the next generation, those in their 40s and 50s and at the height of their professional lives.

Now if they were to ask those over 65 ... we know how we feel, and it’s not the same as we felt at 55.

It is hardly surprising that in a recent survey, “more than 20 percent of those 55 and over” said that John McCain’s age “made it less likely that they would vote for” him. It would be likewise unsurprising if a survey of women 50 years ago showed that many would be disinclined to vote for a female presidential candidate.

Bias against a group by its own members is nothing new, especially when such bias is widespread in the society as a whole. What do old people really need? The equivalent of the women’s liberation movement, but this time directed against ageism rather than sexism. Felicia Nimue Ackerman

Charles M. Blow admonishes John McCain to stop with the jokes about his age. What advice might he offer me?

At 77 I do not know whether to feel more superannuated having a son the same age as the Democratic candidate or being six years older than the Republican candidate, whom so many believe is over the hill. Don Rose
114 2008-07-04 PARIS -- Global stocks fell Thursday as the price of oil rose above $145 a barrel for the first time.

Investors were unwilling to make major bets as they awaited an interest rate decision from the European Central Bank and an important employment report from the United States.

“Rising oil prices aren’t good for anyone,” said Steven Vanneste, an economist at Fortis in Brussels. “In addition to the higher energy costs that businesses face, employees are going to be asking for wage increases, which will double the cost burden on companies.”

U.S. crude oil futures for August delivery rose $1.80 to $145.37, beating the record of $144.57 a barrel set Wednesday in New York.

The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro-zone blue chips, was down 0.4 percent in midday trading, while the FTSE 100 index in London declined 0.3 percent.
115 2008-07-04 THE R68A subway car is shiny and modern-looking, with seats in two shades of orange — few of which can be glimpsed when the car is crowded. And the second-to-last R68A of the Q train that pulled out of DeKalb Avenue at 8:27 a.m. on Thursday felt near capacity.

There would be no four-day holiday weekends, it seemed, for the 128 passengers in this car.

As the train went over the Manhattan Bridge, few riders looked up from their books or newspapers or iPods or private thoughts or even their dreams to see, to the south, through the bridge’s riveted girders, the Statue of Liberty in the haze of a hot summer morning.

Is it nearly impossible to take a single authoritative snapshot of New York City’s population, to freeze it in place, to discover and list all the different people who live here. Or were born here. Or who came here in search of success, or family, or to escape misery. Each block is different, from Park Avenue to Parkside Avenue, from the East Village to Eastchester — each is its own little city, with its own evolving ethnic mixture, its own traditions.

But if there is no perfect way to take that snapshot, then there are certainly worse ways than to catalogue the people in that car of the 8:27 a.m. Q train in the middle of the Manhattan Bridge, to learn who they are, and how they happened to be there. And there are certainly worse days to publish it in the newspaper than the Fourth of July.

And so six reporters and four photographers from The New York Times set out early on Thursday to capture the intricate human mosaic sharing one journey in one R68A, high above Brooklyn and Manhattan, with the skyscrapers and a little green statue out the windows.

In all, 99 people were interviewed — not everyone in the car, but a large cross section of this captive population. In this proudly unscientific approach, riders were asked what they did for a living, where they were born, how long they had lived in New York. Some were interviewed in more depth. Twenty-nine were not interviewed, for various reasons, including four who were asleep. They were not disturbed.
116 2008-07-05 My Sunday column argues for a Truth Commission, with subpoena power, to investigate torture, improper detention and other abuses in the aftermath of 9/11. This should not be a bipartisan commission with Democrats and Republicans, like the 9/11 Com...
117 2008-07-05 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
118 2008-07-05 But older poor people and those who are homebound are doubly squeezed by rising gas and food prices, because they rely not just on social service agencies, but also on volunteers.

In the survey of agencies, more than 70 percent said it was more difficult to recruit and keep volunteers.

Mrs. Fair, who has limited mobility because of diabetes, lives on $642 per month in Social Security widow’s benefits, and relies on care from her son, who often works odd hours, especially during blueberry season. “He says, ‘You belong in a nursing home; I can’t take care of you,’ ” Mrs. Fair said.

The delivered meals allowed her to eat at regular hours, which helped her control her blood sugar levels, she said. Last year she lost her balance during a change in blood sugar and spent a month in a nursing home.

With no meal delivery in her area, Mrs. Fair said her home aide, who comes three times a week, must pick up frozen meals from a center in the next town.

“If my aide can’t get the meals, maybe I can get my pastor to pick them up,” Mrs. Fair said. “I can’t travel even to the drop-off center.”

Val J. Halamandaris, president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, said that rising fuel prices had become a significant burden for the 7,000 agencies represented by his group, with some forced to close and others compelled to shrink their service areas or reduce face-to-face visits with patients.

A recent survey by the group concluded that home health and hospice workers drove 4.8 billion miles in 2006 to serve 12 million clients. “If we lose these agencies in rural areas, we’ll never get them back,” Mr. Halamandaris said.

The agencies, which have suffered from Medicare cuts in recent years, are lobbying Congress to account for fuel inflation in reimbursement rates and to reinstate special increases for providers in rural areas, a program that expired in 2006.

In Union, Mich., a town among flat corn and soybean farms near the Indiana border, Bill Harman, 77, relies on a home aide to take care of his wife, Evelyn, who is 85 and has Alzheimer’s disease. Mr. Harman has had to use a wheelchair since 2000 because of hip problems.

But the aide, Katie Clark, 26, may have to give up the job. She lives 25 miles away and drives 700 miles a week to provide twice-daily visits, helping Mrs. Harman dress in the morning and get to bed at night, feeding her, doing chores around the house. “And putting up with a grumpy old man,” she said jokingly to Mr. Harman. Her weekly income of $250 is being eaten up by gas expenses, which come to $100 a week.

“Some weeks I have to borrow money to get here,” said Ms. Clark, a single mother of two, adding, “They’re just like family to me.”

Agencies say they are facing a shortage of home aides, because the jobs have low pay and often require long drives for a few hours of work. “They can’t make any money,” said Laurence Schmidt, administrator for the Oswego County Office for the Aging, in rural northwest New York. “So they’ll get jobs in nursing homes, where they can drive to one place and work a full shift. That is a statewide problem.”

Mr. Harman said that he thought a previous aide might have abused his wife, but that Mrs. Harman was comfortable with Ms. Clark. On a recent afternoon, Mrs. Harman called Ms. Clark “honey”; Ms. Clark, walking Mrs. Harman to the bathroom, kissed her nose. Mrs. Harman said she was going home. Ms. Clark said, “You are home, silly.”

For her work, Ms. Clark receives $9 an hour. If she leaves, Mr. Harman said, he could not care for his wife.

He said that when they married, she raised his five children as if they were her own. When Mrs. Harman started to develop Alzheimer’s 8 or 10 years ago, he said, “I promised her, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll take care of you as long as I can.’ ”

Without an aide, he said, he would have to put his wife in a nursing home, and probably need to live in one himself.

For many isolated older people, home delivery of meals provides not just nutrition but also regular contact with the outside world, said Elaine Eubank, president of CareLink, a nonprofit agency that serves elderly people in six counties in Arkansas, delivering 480,181 meals to 18,000 people last year. Because of gas prices, Ms. Eubank said, one center in Monroe County had closed its kitchen, and others were delivering frozen meals two days a week.

Mary Margaret Cox, executive director of Meals on Wheels in Greeley, Colo., which serves meals to 300 people a day, said that her agency was trying to avoid shifting to frozen meals, but that it was getting hard to recruit students and teachers who volunteer during the summer.

“Most don’t have anyone else checking up on them daily,” Mrs. Cox said of her clients. “If we do more frozen meals, they’ll lose that daily contact.”

Many agencies said their revenues — which come from state, federal and private sources — were not keeping up with their increased expenses. “We’ve had one increase from Medicaid in 11 years,” Ms. Eubank said. “But home care and Meals on Wheels keep people at home for a fraction of the cost of a nursing home. The state pays for care once they’re in a nursing home. So our cuts may cost more than they save.”

Sandra Prediger, 70, who still drives a car, said higher gas prices hit her every time she needed to go to the doctor. From her senior apartment in South Haven, she was barely able to pay her bills before gas prices rose.

“I try to help some of the ladies around here, driving them to doctors or to the store,” Miss Prediger said, but a round trip to her doctor or the beauty shop now costs $26 in gas. She has had to ask her friends to pay half. “I hate to ask,’’ she said, “because they have less than me.”

Her Social Security check arrives on the third of the month. For the few days before, her local gas station lets her write a postdated check to fill up.

On July 2, Miss Prediger had no money and owed money to the gas station. “In a few minutes,” she said, “my friend Shirley will probably call and say, ‘Can you take me to Wal-Mart to get needles for my diabetes?’ What else can I do?”

Barbara Blumka, 67, of Buchanan, Mich., said she would continue delivering 15 or 16 meals a week though she could not afford it. She is driving a Dodge Caravan, a “gas guzzler,” she said.

“I see these people’s faces,” said Ms. Blumka, who gets her meals at a senior center. “They’re so appreciative. I think of all the people who took care of my mother in the nursing home. This is my way of giving thanks.”

Christine Vanlandingham, development officer for the three-county Area Agency on Aging, said that in three to six months, the agency would have to start cutting meal deliveries to clients who get them now.

But Ms. Blumka will continue to help the homebound. Her nieces and nephews were buying her an adult tricycle for other travels. “It’s neon blue,” she said. “I’ll ride it to the senior center.”
119 2008-07-05 It is not just residents of Boulder, a mecca for all things organic and spiritual, who flock to Ms. Frederick’s “career intuition boot camp” and individual sessions in person or over the phone.

“I don’t want to come across as a new age-y kind of guy with my head in the stars, because as a New Yorker type that’s the last thing I am,” said Gary Purnhagen, 55, who started his own management consulting business in Manhattan a few months ago after spending 20 years working for companies. “But going to Sue was probably the best decision I’ve ever made in terms of reaching out.”

Several months ago Mr. Purnhagen left a financial printing company that was laying people off. He trolled the Internet for counselors and coaches. When he saw Ms. Frederick’s Web site he was drawn to her big smile and her message that your dream job should make you giggle when you speak of it.

Then, call it coincidence or destiny, a consultant friend of his in New York suggested that he check out a career coach named Sue Frederick, and Mr. Purnhagen tossed his skepticism aside. Four one-hour phone sessions and $500 later, he said he is more focused, confident and trusting in his ability to build a lucrative clientele.

Ms. Frederick, 58, trained as a career counselor in the 1970s at the University of Missouri. She worked at the university and later in the private sector. But she yearned to add to her repertoire her self-described clairvoyance, which she says she discovered when she was a child who would dream about things that would often happen later that day.

Her husband warned that she would lose corporate clients if she called herself a career intuitive, but she did anyway. “Soon I had more clients than I knew what to do with,” Ms. Frederick told the 29 people at a recent workshop.

When career coaches jumped onto the scene two decades ago they were looked upon suspiciously by career counselors as inexperienced, brash interlopers. But since 1999, when the International Coach Federation began offering certification training for coaches, their reputation has risen steadily.

Today, roughly 3,700 people in the United States are certified by the federation. But anyone can call herself a coach; in fact, roughly 30,000 people do just that, estimates Diane Brennan, president of the federation. Hundreds of organizations offer some form of coaching certifications.

“A lot of people call themselves coaches because it’s the hot thing to do,” Ms. Brennan said.

This factor is reflected in the rates coaches charge — up to $400 an hour. For many clients, seeing a coach feels far more upbeat, even more upscale, than working with a counselor. This makes some traditional career counselors fear they may become obsolete.

“A lot of people see having a coach as a prestigious thing, whereas going to a career counselor is often associated with having a problem,” said Maria Greco, a licensed professional counselor in Boulder with a Ph.D. in university administration.

A coach is more like a personal trainer, who coaxes clients to set and meet their job or career goals. A sure sign that you are talking to a coach is “five steps to” or “seven rules for.” The cover of Ms. Frederick’s 2004 book, “Dancing at Your Desk: A Metaphysical Guide to Job Happiness,” promises “The 7 Secret Steps to Finding Work You Love.”

Joel Garfinkle, a career coach in Oakland, Calif., said his seven-step formula to finding a dream job sets him apart.

“It’s all about aligning your natural gifts and talent to your passions that will equal a career that is 100 percent about fulfillment,” said Mr. Garfinkle, with the turbo-charged delivery of a football coach.

What draws people to a career counselor or coach depends on their age, their location and the industry they work in. For instance, even though Silicon Valley has averted the worst of the economic slowdown, some people who have lost their job are asking whether the long commute and the grueling workdays are worth it before they start interviewing for a new job.

“I’m seeing more people looking for quality of life, balance and a change that will give them something that’ll be more enduring and more of a natural expression of who they are,” said Norm Meshriy, a career counselor in Walnut Creek, Calif.

Career counselors and coaches also say they are seeing more college students and recent graduates.

“Students are very concerned about the amount of debt they are graduating with, the sluggish economy, loss of jobs in numerous areas due to the housing bust, skilled jobs going overseas and fewer opportunities outside the service industries,” Linda Bates Parker, president of Black Career Women, a nonprofit devoted to the career development of black women, wrote in an e-mail. She is also director of career development at the University of Cincinnati.

At the other end of the career lifeline, a small but growing number of baby boomers are summoning career counselors and coaches.

Keyren H. Cotter, 67, is a loan officer at a bank in Denver. With a Ph.D. in materials science, Mr. Cotter, known as Casey, worked for years in engineering before moving into mortgage banking. But it was not the mortgage crisis that recently sent him to Ms. Frederick’s career workshop.

“I ask myself, ‘What’s my legacy? Why am I here?’ ” Mr. Cotter said. “I’m at a period where I’m no longer motivated by money. I’m looking for something with more substance and more meaning.”

In the weeks since the workshop, Mr. Cotter saw Ms. Frederick for a one-hour session. He recalled that when he walked into her office she said, “I’ve been meditating on you. I think you should make movies.” Now he is considering combining his interest and experience in financing with documentary filmmaking.

“It’s too early to know,” Mr. Cotter said. “But I know I’m getting unstuck.”
120 2008-07-05 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 27 through July 3:

3. Deepening Cycle of Job Loss Seen Lasting Into ’09

4. Your Money: Food-Shopping Tips Direct From the Store Manager

5. Weighing the Costs of a CT Scan’s Look Inside the Heart

8. Digital Domain: Why Windows Software Could Use a Rush of Fresh Air

9. On the Road: New Bag Helps Laptop Pass Airport Security

10. EBay Ordered to Pay $61 Million in Sale of Counterfeit Goods
121 2008-07-05 At 86 the visionary musical sage Jon Hendricks, who along with Ella Fitzgerald and Eddie Jefferson originated the jazz style called vocalese — the setting of swing and jazz instrumentals with playful scat lyrics — is as voluble as ever. Since the late 1950s, when he was a co-founder of the vocal trio Lambert, Hendricks and Ross, this verbal conjurer and scat-singing virtuoso has remained a dedicated popularizer of a form that the Manhattan Transfer refined to a high buff in which polish undercuts raw spontaneity.

The original trio, which he founded in 1957 with Dave Lambert and Annie Ross, lasted five years until Ms. Ross departed, to be replaced briefly by Yolande Bavan. The group disbanded in 1964, and Mr. Lambert died two years later.

On Thursday at the Jazz Standard Mr. Hendricks introduced a new edition of the trio for a four-night engagement. Besides himself, the group, named Jon Hendricks’ L, H & R Redux, features Kevin Burke and Mr. Hendricks’s daughter Aria. The band included Ray Gallon on piano, Paul Gill on bass, Andy Watson on drums and Paul Meyers, a guitarist with a special affinity for bossa nova.

Of L, H & R Redux, it can be said that at least the spirit is intact. As long as Mr. Hendricks, one of the most joyous performers I’ve ever seen, is at the helm, it could hardly be otherwise. He is an intrepid musical missionary for a difficult style that has its own set of complicated but flexible rules: solos must not only follow the same notes as improvised instrumental solos, they should also take into account the timbre, note-bending and dynamics of those solos, as well as the sounds of the particular instruments on which they were played.

Some attempt must be made to articulate words that often flow in semi-nonsensical torrents. When the three voices sing together, a semblance of a coherent harmonic blend is essential.

On Thursday Ms. Hendricks’s bright, shiny voice, leaping into twirly peaks, was the trio’s sonic linchpin. Mr. Burke offered witty muted trumpet imitations. But Mr. Hendricks’s voice was husky and wavering. He sounded strongest outside the trio, singing “September of My Years.” But another solo, the chromatic João Gilberto classic “Estate,” mostly eluded him.
122 2008-07-05 The National Park Service is starting to consider reopening the Statue of Liberty’s crown, which has been closed since the 9/11 attacks, according to documents released Friday by Representative Anthony D. Weiner.

Mr. Weiner, a Queens Democrat who represents parts of Queens and Brooklyn, provided reporters with copies of a request for bids that the National Park Service sent out in June for a study to determine if the crown can be safely reopened.

Liberty Island was closed after the 9/11 attacks and the statue’s base reopened to the public on Aug. 3, 2004, after a $20 million effort to enhance fire safety, security and evacuation routes. But the crown remained closed because the Park Service said there was no way to safely evacuate visitors in an emergency.

The narrow spiral staircase leading up to the crown does not comply with federal, state or city fire and building codes.

The Park Service is seeking a study that would determine if there is a way to make physical modifications to bring the crown into compliance. The Park Service could not immediately be reached for comment on Friday afternoon.

Mr. Weiner, who helped arrange a Congressional hearing in September on reopening the statue’s crown, said that its continued closure was an “embarrassment” to the city and demonstrated a “lack of creativity and imagination” on the part of the Park Service.
123 2008-07-05 NEW DELHI — India’s governing Congress Party has swapped coalition allies in a last-ditch effort to push through a nuclear deal with the United States.

The Congress Party is replacing its leftist allies, led by the Communist Party, with a coalition led by the Samajwadi, a North Indian socialist party. The Congress Party’s grip on India is weakening as inflation and fuel prices rise and the economy slows, and securing an ally is crucial to staying in power.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who has been a staunch supporter of the nuclear agreement with the United States, has been rushing to firm up support for the deal in India ahead of the Group of 8 summit meeting in Japan, which starts on Monday.

There, he is expected to meet with President Bush to discuss the arrangement, which would grant India access to American nuclear technology and atomic fuel in exchange for agreeing to international inspections of its reactors.

The proposal has dominated headlines and fueled heavy debate almost since it was put forward in 2005. Critics, including the Communist Party, say the deal ties India’s future foreign and energy policy too closely to the United States, but advocates say it could usher in a new era of nuclear power in India, freeing the country from heavy dependence on fossil fuels.
124 2008-07-05 She said she walked perhaps 200 miles a year. “I walked with a hat pulled down over my ears because all sorts of things fall on your head, ants that bite you, insects, lice, ticks, with gloves because everything in the jungle bites, each time you try to grab on to something so that you don’t fall, you’ve put your hand on a tarantula, you’ve put your hand on a thorn, a leaf that bites, it’s an absolutely hostile world, dangerous with dangerous animals,” she said. “But the most dangerous of all was man, those who were behind me with their big guns.”

Ms. Betancourt, 46, whose father was a Colombian diplomat in Paris, studied here and married a French diplomat, attaining dual citizenship. They divorced, but their two children campaigned for their mother’s release, helping make her a French symbol of suffering and endurance.

On the flight to France, news agencies reported, Ms. Betancourt said: “I owe my life to France. If France hadn’t fought for me, I wouldn’t be here making this extraordinary journey.”

Mr. Sarkozy, who championed her cause, greeted her at the airport with an embrace, and said: “Dear Ingrid, we have been waiting for this so long. All of France is welcoming you back today.”

He called her bloodless rescue “a message of hope today for all those who believe in freedom.”

Mr. Sarkozy was accompanied by his wife, Carla, senior officials and members of the support group that has campaigned for Ms. Betancourt’s release. It was a signal honor for the French president to meet the plane, which he had sent to Colombia with her children to reunite the family and which now brought them all back to France. But it was wonderful publicity, too, covered live on television, allowing Mr. Sarkozy to bask in the good feelings around the release, which he had made a priority of his government.

At one point, Ms. Betancourt grabbed Mr. Sarkozy’s hand and said, “I owe so much to this extraordinary man who did so much for me,” and she praised France for aiding her family, providing moral support and for pressing the Colombian government to find a nonviolent way to rescue her. “France opposed a military operation that would put the lives of the hostages at risk, particularly my life,” she said. “So in a sense you saved my life.”

She asked Mr. Sarkozy for his continuing help in freeing the other 700 or so hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. She was freed along with three American contractors and 11 Colombians. He answered, “Let it be clear, we will continue.”

While the French saw Ms. Betancourt as a symbol of their own sense of political activism — an ecologist, an educated person with a social conscience, independent and brave — many in Colombia saw her as a dilettante, an exile who returned to teach the natives how to live and who courted publicity.

Mr. Sarkozy’s own role became a topic of heated internal politics on Friday. The rescue operation, carried out by Colombian forces with American guidance, was done with no French involvement and no forewarning to Paris.

That prompted the Socialist he defeated for the presidency, Ségolène Royal, to belittle the diplomatic role Mr. Sarkozy had played. “Nicolas Sarkozy had absolutely nothing to do with this liberation,” she said in an interview during a visit to Canada. She called his diplomatic efforts “useless.”

Mr. Sarkozy’s allies leaped to counterattack. Prime Minister François Fillon said Ms. Royal was behaving like “a little girl in the playground” while Frédéric Lefebvre, a spokesman for Mr. Sarkozy’s political party, said it was “pitiful” that Ms. Royal was “trying to break the national unity” surrounding Ms. Betancourt’s release.

He said that Mr. Sarkozy had displayed “total commitment these past 12 months in the search for all possible ways” to ensure Ms. Betancourt’s release, and that making accusations against him “is really not worthy of a woman who aspires to the highest responsibilities.”

French officials also dismissed Swiss reports that bribes had been paid to the FARC and that the rescue was a staged affair. Ms. Betancourt is expected to undergo a medical examination at a French military hospital on Saturday.
125 2008-07-05 Re “What We Learned in the War,” by Gail Collins (column, July 3):

Moral courage is far more important and fragile than physical courage. Most of us show some bravery when facing immediate danger but waver in the face of ethical decisions when we have something to lose by doing the right thing.

When it comes to the question of John McCain’s experience during the Vietnam War, I would be far more impressed if he had concluded that our country had no business meddling in a civil war on the other side of the planet. The tens of thousands of American deaths in that conflict were tragic but modest when compared with the several hundred thousand Vietnamese who died because of our intervention.

And the relentless use of sophisticated weaponry, particularly our unparalleled air power, against an impoverished agrarian society is a permanent stain on American history.

John McCain showed admirable defiance and fortitude as a prisoner of war. But he did not show moral courage when he took part in an immoral war that brought devastation to both Vietnam and the rest of Southeast Asia.
126 2008-07-05 The daughter that Valentina Korshunova knew would never have taken her own life.

“She was so full of life; she loved life,” Mrs. Korshunova, 48, said tearfully, speaking through a translator on Thursday at a funeral home in Greenwich Village where her daughter’s wake was held. “She was very strong, even though she looked so fragile. She had stamina, inner strength, and always acted so rationally, so reasonably.”

It had been five days since the body of her daughter, Ruslana Korshunova, a 20-year-old model, had been found in Lower Manhattan, nine stories beneath her apartment. The police said she had jumped. Upon hearing the news, Mrs. Korshunova flew immediately from her native city of Almaty, Kazakhstan, traveling alone because her son, Ruslan, 28, could not get a visa in time.

By the time Mrs. Korshunova’s plane touched down, speculation was raging about what might have caused her daughter to jump. The Daily News reported accounts of Ms. Korshunova’s lovelorn online musings, which hinted at desperation and a sense of being lost.

But Mrs. Korshunova, wearing black and shrouded in a mourning veil, insisted that her daughter was too excited about her future and too full of life to ever have considered ending it. Instead she believed, after speaking to the police, that the facts in the case did not add up and that her daughter, always adventurous, might have been making her way through construction netting to a neighboring balcony and accidentally slipped.

The pair had always been close. Mrs. Korshunova washed her daughter’s Rapunzel-like hair, which brushed her upper thighs, until Ms. Korshunova was 16. They kept in nearly constant touch after Ms. Korshunova left Kazakhstan, at 16, to model in Moscow, then Paris and finally New York, a city she adored. They spoke often.
127 2008-07-05 A housing market in shambles, inflation at the highest level in years and signs that the economy is headed for, or already in, recession. Sound familiar?     The British economy, like its counterpart across the Atlantic, has fallen on hard times, ...
128 2008-07-06 Alex Rodriguez has made the All-Star team in 12 of his 13 seasons. The exception was 1999, a snub talked about Sunday, after he learned he had been named the top vote-getter for this year's All-Star Game at Yankee Stadium. "I remember one year I d...
129 2008-07-06 Headlines from the world of property: U.K.: Average property prices are down 3.2 percent And the the number of buyers is down 5.7 per cent in a month and the number of completed sales now looked "set to reach levels not seen since the 1970s." From...
130 2008-07-06 Republicans begin broadcasting an ad on energy that promotes John McCain in several battleground states....
131 2008-07-06 The highlight of these trials for me was more personal. On Saturday afternoon, I had a reunion with Mike Bruner, a 1976 and 1980 Olympian who is the reason I became a sportswriter....
132 2008-07-06 Ross Fisher birdied the last hole to take a three-stroke lead Saturday after the third round of the European Open in Ash, England.

Fisher’s 6-footer for birdie completed a three-under 69 for a 54-hole total of 200.

Graeme McDowell shot a 71 for 203, including a bogey at the last hole. David Frost also shot 69 on a windy afternoon to hold third place at 206, with Michael Jonzon (71), Paul McGinley (71) and Soren Hansen (72) sharing fourth at 207.
133 2008-07-06 BERLIN (AP) — A man tore off the head of a wax figure of Hitler at Madame Tussauds’ new branch in Berlin in what appeared to be a symbolic protest at the museum’s opening on Saturday, officials said.

The police said the man, who was not identified, had shoved aside two museum employees and then ripped the head off the likeness of Hitler.

The police said they arrested the man, who told them he was protesting the display of the Hitler figure.

The man was the second customer to enter the museum, according to an employee, Stephan Koch, who said that he and a colleague had unsuccessfully tried to prevent the man from jumping over a table in front of the figure and damaging it.

The man, a Berlin resident, faces charges of causing damage to property and bodily harm, said a police spokesman, Bernd Schodrowski.
134 2008-07-06 By his own admission, Mr. McCain is not a great orator. He is ill-suited to lecterns, which often dwarf his small stature, and he tends to sound as if he is reading his lines, not speaking them. His shortcomings have been accentuated in a two-man race, particularly because the other man — Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee — can often dazzle on stage.

Mr. McCain and his advisers know that Mr. Obama’s ability to excite huge crowds will make for an inevitable podium mismatch for the older, softer-spoken Republican. “We’re going up against a guy who is off the charts,” said Mark Salter, Mr. McCain’s longtime Senate chief of staff and campaign adviser.

To better compete, Mr. McCain is undergoing a subtle but marked transition as a political performer, said aides and people who have watched him. As part of a staff shakeup that was announced Tuesday, he brought in a new adviser — Greg Jenkins, a former White House official and Fox News producer — who will oversee the producing and staging of Mr. McCain’s events. Mr. Jenkins is considered an expert at political stagecraft, oversaw many of President Bush’s appearances and served as executive director of the 2004 inaugural committee.

Mr. McCain is working closely with aides like Brett O’Donnell, a former debate consultant for Mr. Bush, to improve his speech and performance. He is working to limit his verbal tangents and nonverbal tics. He is speaking less out of the sides of his mouth, which can produce a wiseguy twang reminiscent of the Penguin from the Batman stories, and he is relying less on his favorite semantic crutch — the phrase “my friends” — which he used repeatedly in his campaign appearances. He also appears to be trying to exercise restraint, advisers and campaign observers say, when speaking off the cuff, wisecracking in town meetings and criticizing his opponent. In recent weeks, for example, Mr. McCain seems to have reined in the sarcasm he has directed at Mr. Obama. (In May, for example, he said of his opponent, “With his very, very great lack of experience and knowledge of the issues, he’s been very successful.”)

Alan Schroeder, a journalism professor at Northeastern University, said, “There’s a danger of sarcasm becoming nastiness, and McCain seems to be conscious of that line.”

Some McCain loyalists say he needs to be left alone and not burdened by his staff’s calculations about how he should be acting or what he should saying.

“I think the depressingly self-absorbed McCain campaign machine needs to get out of the way,” said Mike Murphy, a longtime friend and media adviser who has no role in the current operation but who still talks to Mr. McCain every few days. “They need to just let McCain be McCain.”

The more careful McCain, said by some to be overly scripted, has received some withering critiques. “His rhetorical style can best be described as ‘tired mayonnaise,’ ” the comedian Stephen Colbert declared on “The Colbert Report” before inviting viewers to enter the “Make McCain Exciting Challenge.”

Peter Spaulding, the chairman of Mr. McCain’s campaign in New Hampshire, said he recently saw a McCain speech on television that was “just atrocious.”

Dan Schnur, Mr. McCain’s communications chief during his 2000 presidential campaign, said, “Besides his convention speech, the only time I would even put him behind a podium at all between now and the end of the campaign is when he’s announcing a policy position.”

Mr. McCain’s advisers, who bristle at the idea that they are trying to transform the candidate, say that his lack of smoothness merely reinforces his reputation for authenticity.

“Voters are looking for credibility and are wary of polish,” said Mark McKinnon, a former consultant to Mr. McCain’s campaign. “At the end of the day, it doesn’t really matter which candidate can more deftly read a teleprompter.”

Indeed, Mr. McCain and his advisers seem to be trying to present him as a kind of anti-Obama whose weaknesses as a political performer underscore his accessibility to regular voters.

“John doesn’t ever want to be something that he is not,” Mr. Salter said, including trying to pass himself off as a larger-than-life figure on stage. “There’s nothing in there about him that wants to be rarefied.”

Mr. McCain and his surrogates appear to be taking a page from the primary campaign of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, which made a point of praising Mr. Obama’s speaking skills both to erase any expectation that she could match them and to imply that Mr. Obama was more of a performer than a leader. Nicolle Wallace, Mr. McCain’s new senior adviser, said the campaign would focus on having the candidate interact face to face with voters, “not from a center stage in the middle of a stadium.”

In an interview on his campaign plane, Mr. McCain said “my strongest environment is clearly the impromptu.” He added, “I don’t mean that in a way that denigrates Senator’s Obama’s speechmaking skills.”

He shrugged when asked whether he is improving as a speaker. “It’s fine, it’s fine,” he said. “It’s coming along.”

“I will continue to make mistakes,” he added.

He said he was trying to be “extra vigilant” about not giving unnecessary offense, knowing that the wisecracking humor that might charm cynical reporters might not do the same for earnest voters.

He sheepishly volunteered that he received complaints after a recent Newsweek profile of his wife, Cindy, said that he sometimes referred to her alma mater, the University of Southern California, as the University of Spoiled Children.

Mr. Salter bemoans the current environment, in which, he said, “the press creates the expectation that you better not stumble on a word, or tell a joke that Mr. Rogers wouldn’t tell, or you’re going to be in trouble.”

There are any number of Web videos of Mr. McCain to prove the point. They include the moment he playfully called a young man a “jerk” at a town-hall-style meeting in New Hampshire last year after he asked Mr. McCain if his age made him a candidate for Alzheimer’s disease in the White House (Mr. McCain typically uses jerk as a term of affection), or when he suggested to Jon Stewart on “The Daily Show” that he brought him a special gift from Iraq — an improvised explosive device.

Small misstatements become instant YouTube fodder — as when Mr. McCain vowed to “veto every single beer” that included lawmakers’ pet spending projects (he meant “bill”) or when he said the government should have been able to deliver “bottled hot water” to dehydrated babies in New Orleans. (It is fortunate for Mr. McCain that there was no YouTube in the 1980s when he jokingly referred to the retirement community Leisure World as “Seizure World.”)

Mr. McCain speaks often about his love of the “give and take,” the “more informal settings where I think I’m at my best.”

“It’s not an ego thing,” he said, “just where I think I’m most effective.”

When asked if it would be possible to run “the town meeting campaign” that he credited with providing him a decisive victory in New Hampshire, where he held 102 such events, Mr. McCain said, “Absolutely.”

The ease with which he presided over such a gathering in Cincinnati on June 26 was strikingly different from the difficulties he had with his speech in Las Vegas the day before. “I believe that town-hall meetings are the essence of the process,” Mr. McCain said to an audience at Xavier University, gripping his microphone with two hands. He talked about why it is important to engage with people across the political spectrum: “conservatives and liberals and libertarians and vegetarians,” he said.

A downside to such meetings is that they can become forums for people to ask about anything, including parochial concerns. One student, for example, asked Mr. McCain what he would do to ensure that commercial airlines continued to operate out of the Cincinnati airport.

Mr. McCain managed to steer his answer to energy, the theme of the week. “This is the reason for Project Lexington,” he responded.
135 2008-07-06 Torres, 24, said that Benítez’s relentless demands for improvement since he went to England from Atlético Madrid had been a catalyst in his career.

“There are days when you think, ‘My God, this guy doesn’t let you breathe,’ ” Torres told the club’s Web site on Saturday.

“At a club like Liverpool, you can’t sit back after scoring 20-odd goals and say, ‘Well, that’s it.’ After you score 20, Benítez is at you during the next training session and stays on top of you all day, all week.”

Torres was instrumental in helping Spain win its first major championship in 44 years, scoring the winning goal in last Sunday’s final against Germany. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

RONALDINHO WON’T BE CHEAP Barcelona said it would not sell its Brazilian midfielder/striker Ronaldinho, who has been deemed unneeded by the team’s new coach, Pep Guardiola, at a discount.

“Ronaldinho is a player of great value, and we will only sell if we get a proper price,” Ferrán Soriano, a club vice president, said at a news conference Friday. “If we don’t get it, he won’t go.”

Ronaldinho, 28, who has two years left on his contract, has been linked to a move to A.C. Milan and Manchester City since Guardiola said he, Samuel Eto’o and Deco did not figure in his plans. Deco signed with Chelsea last week. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) KEWELL JOINS GALATASARAY The former Liverpool star Harry Kewell, 29, signed a two-year contract with Turkish champion Galatasaray on Saturday, describing his move as a new chapter after five injury-riddled seasons in England. He left Liverpool on a free transfer.

Kewell said he chose Galatasaray after speaking to club officials about their plans and having seen Turkey’s improving performance in international competitions. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

NEWCASTLE: NO DEAL Newcastle United dismissed reports in the British news media that the owner Mike Ashley had put a price tag of $840 million on the club during talks with American investors over a possible sale.

According to a published report, Ashley’s asking price frightened off American private equity group InterMedia Partners.

Ashley, a billionaire who made his money with a chain of sporting goods stores, paid $271 million and took on approximately $160 million of debt when he bought Newcastle from Freddy Shepherd last year. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

NO JOKE IN RIO The Libertadores Cup runners-up Fluminense failed to see the funny side on Friday after its final defeat by L.D.U. Quito was publicly celebrated by its local rival Flamengo in Rio de Janeiro.

Fluminense won the second leg of the two-leg series, 3-1, on Wednesday for a 5-5 tie on aggregate. But L.D.U. won the penalty-kick shootout to become the first Ecuadorean team to win the tournament.

Thiago Neves, who scored a hat trick for Fluminense, was furious after Flamengo’s players joked and shouted the names of L.D.U. players during an open training session.

Neves remembered that Flamengo suffered a humiliating exit from the same tournament in the second round when it lost at home to Mexico’s América, 3-0, after winning the first leg, 4-2.

“They belittled their opponents and got knocked out,” Neves told reporters. “They didn’t get to the final and now they want to make silly jokes. We have to put these provocations aside. We respect all the players.” (REUTERS)
136 2008-07-06 Amnesty International said that Ms. Arbour, who formally left the job on Monday, had been a champion for human rights and that replacing her would not be easy. Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, is expected to announce her successor shortly.

Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said Ms. Arbour had been principled and outspoken. In a telephone interview from New York, he added, “Our hope is that the next commissioner not be excessively inclined to practice quiet diplomacy when outspokenness is called for.”

That said, Ms. Arbour’s forthright views have angered many governments and interest groups. This year, Zimbabwe’s justice minister, Patrick Chinamasa, said Ms. Arbour had turned her office into a “deified oracle which spews out edicts we all must follow.” Some supporters of Israel have called her an idiot.

The Bush administration, too, has objected to her frequent complaints about its use of torture, secret arrests and disregard of international law as part of the campaign against terrorism.

Yet Ms. Arbour herself does not regard naming-and-shaming as the high commissioner’s most effective tool. On one of the last days in her office on the banks of Lake Geneva, Ms. Arbour sounded almost defensive about sometimes using quiet diplomacy.

“On my travels, I can see presidents and prime ministers and foreign ministers,” she said. “A lot of nongovernmental organizations don’t have this kind of access. But that calls for a different tone of interaction. There’s no point in screaming if you cannot compel anything.”

She has, however, pressed her way into places like refugee camps and prisons, to the discomfort of her official hosts.

“She’d ask to see political prisoners or rape victims,” said Scott Campbell, an aide who has often traveled with her. “It’s difficult to say no to Louise Arbour.”

Some have said no. North Korea and Myanmar refused to let her in. China said she was always welcome, but recently, when she wanted to travel to Tibet, she was told it was not the right time. She visited Sri Lanka, but the government would not let her open a field office there.

Pakistan kept postponing her trip, finally offering her a date three days before she was to leave office. She accepted. Last week, she admonished the country’s president, Pervez Musharraf, and other high-ranking officials about human rights issues, including “disappearances” and the lack of judiciary independence.

But it is what she calls “a very serious erosion” of safeguards against human rights abuses in the United States that has haunted her work.

In many countries, Ms. Arbour said, when she raises human rights concerns with a president or prime minister: “I can write the script. The first response I get is, ‘Why aren’t you in Guantánamo? Why are you coming here?’ ”

But, she added, when she had admonished the United States, she had heard the opposing view. “I recently had a meeting with a group of Congressional aides,” she said, “and they complained, ‘Why aren’t you criticizing Myanmar instead of spending your time criticizing the United States?’ ”

In Geneva itself, pure politics often seem to dominate the Human Rights Council, which in 2006 replaced the politicized United Nations Commission on Human Rights.

Ms. Arbour said she welcomed the council’s new policy under which every country’s human rights record would be examined every four years, but she lamented regular attempts in the council to gain control of her office.

The council’s work has often been paralyzed and distorted by regional groups, notably the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the African group, which not only have focused overwhelmingly on Israel’s treatment of Palestinians but also have blocked discussion of such topics as sexual identity, female genital cutting and so-called honor killings.

“It seems to me that anything that is related to full gender equality is a fundamental human right,” Ms. Arbour said. “But the dictates of culture or religion or tradition are often put forward as clashing with that. It’s the wrong debate.”
137 2008-07-06 Negotiating contract extensions or new deals during Nascar’s racing season can be a major distraction for the drivers involved.

The two-time Nascar champion Tony Stewart, who is trying to decide whether to stay with Joe Gibbs Racing or move on to a deal that includes team ownership, is clearly fed up with the constant questions.

Greg Biffle knows how that feels. Last week, he announced he had signed a three-year extension with Roush-Fenway Racing and said was relieved to put the project to rest.

“It will be nice not to have to answer those questions again for a few years,” Biffle said.

For the Petty Enterprises driver Bobby Labonte, signing a contract extension was a chance to focus on the future.

“I don’t know that it’s distracting,” Labonte, the 2000 Cup champion, said of the in-season negotiations.
138 2008-07-06 Shane said he started reporting in March on the interrogation of Mohammed and quickly focused on Martinez, a desk-bound analyst, not a covert spy, who was pressed into service and wound up establishing a remarkable rapport with the ruthless terrorist. Although Mohammed had been subjected earlier to waterboarding, which simulates drowning and is condemned as torture by many, Martinez took no part in that and refused to be trained how.

Shane said he had sought the C.I.A.’s cooperation in reporting the story but was rebuffed by the agency and by Martinez, who now works for a private contractor. After Shane contacted friends and associates of Martinez and sought an interview with him, Mark Mansfield, the C.I.A.’s director of public affairs, sent a strongly worded letter to Dean Baquet, The Times’s Washington bureau chief. Naming the interrogator “would be reckless and irresponsible,” Mansfield said, and “could endanger the lives of this American and his family” by making them Qaeda targets. And in the “poisoned atmosphere” of the debate over the C.I.A.’s interrogation techniques, Mansfield wrote, Martinez could be “vulnerable to any misguided person who believes they need to confront ‘torture’ directly.”

Baquet asked for a meeting to discuss the C.I.A.’s request. Mansfield refused. He told me the letter said it all and nothing could be accomplished by a meeting. But to Baquet, Shane and Rebecca Corbett, the editor of the story, the refusal suggested that the C.I.A. was not actually that concerned. The Times has been asked before by the C.I.A. to withhold information — it has sometimes agreed, sometimes refused — and serious requests have usually come from the top of the agency, with an opportunity to discuss them.

But the reporter and editors said they were still worried about Martinez’s fears and tried to assess how realistic they were. Shane said he repeatedly pressed the C.I.A. for more information. He called John Kiriakou, a former covert operative who was the first to question another top Qaeda terrorist, Abu Zubaydah. Kiriakou voluntarily went public last December, and Shane wanted to know what happened. Kiriakou mentioned a death threat published in Pakistan and didn’t go into much more detail. Kiriakou said he advised Shane not to use the name.

When I asked Kiriakou for full details about his experience, he said he received more than a dozen death threats, many of them crank. His house was put under police guard and he took his family to Mexico for two weeks after the C.I.A. advised him to get out of town for a while. He said he lost his job with a major accounting firm because executives expressed fear that Al Qaeda could attack its offices to get him, though Kiriakou considered that fear unreasonable.

Martinez hired a Washington super-lawyer, Robert Bennett, to plead his case. With the story two days from publication, Gen. Michael Hayden, the C.I.A. director, called Bill Keller, The Times’s executive editor. Keller said Hayden acknowledged that he did not know of any specific threat to Martinez or of any Qaeda hit list. But Hayden said that naming Martinez could subject him to harassment or even put him in danger. Keller said, “I had this impression that he was doing it out of respect for Martinez’s and his family’s concerns more than a concern the C.I.A. had.”

Through his spokesman, Hayden agreed with Keller’s description of what was said but disagreed with the editor’s interpretation of the call. Hayden was “extremely disappointed” in the newspaper’s decision, Mansfield said.

Bennett said he offered to vouch on the record for his client’s role as Mohammed’s interrogator if the newspaper would withhold his name. Shane does not recall that offer, but Baquet said he would have rejected it.

Mark Zaid, a Washington lawyer who often represents C.I.A. employees, covert and not, said Martinez’s concern is understandable and he may have to curtail overseas travel for a while, a point made by Bennett and Kiriakou. But he said, “I think it would be unrealistic — you can never rule it out — to think he’s at risk of harm here in the United States.”

The Times and other news organizations have been asked over the years to withhold stories for fear of harm. And they have done so when a persuasive case has been made that the danger — whether to national security or an individual — is real and imminent. In this case, there is no history of Al Qaeda hunting down individuals in the United States for retribution. It prefers dramatic attacks that kill indiscriminately. And The Times took reasonable precautions to prevent Martinez from being easily found.

Bennett said The Times did “a terrible thing.” He said Martinez had been threatened repeatedly by Mohammed and others he interrogated but they did not know his identity. Now their friends do, at least to some degree. Martinez has received no threats since the article was published. Shane, on the other hand, has received abusive e-mail bordering on the threatening.

I understand how readers can think that if there is any risk at all, a person like Martinez should never be identified. But going in that direction, especially in this age of increasing government secrecy, would leave news organizations hobbled when trying to tell the public about some of the government’s most important and controversial actions.

In preparing this column, I consulted with Bob Steele, an ethicist at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla. His discussion of the Times article can be found at www.poynter.org/nytcia.
139 2008-07-06 In a pattern that has been repeated for weeks, oil prices rose and the stock market fell.

This time, the entire week on Wall Street was constrained to three and a half days of trading because of the Fourth of July holiday, which fell on Friday and shortened trading on Thursday.

Oil futures in New York settled on Thursday at $145.29 a barrel, up from $140.21 the previous week. The United States economy shed an additional 62,000 nongovernment jobs in June, the sixth consecutive month of job losses, according to a Labor Department report on Friday.

General Motors shares dropped 12 percent for the week, the biggest loss among the Dow industrials for the second consecutive week.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 57.97 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 11,288.54. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 15.48 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 1,262.90. The Nasdaq composite index fell 70.25 points, or 3 percent, to close at 2,245.38. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note remained flat from the previous week, at 3.97 percent.
140 2008-07-06 WHY do some people reach their creative potential in business while other equally talented peers don’t?

After three decades of painstaking research, the Stanford psychologist Carol Dweck believes that the answer to the puzzle lies in how people think about intelligence and talent. Those who believe they were born with all the smarts and gifts they’re ever going to have approach life with what she calls a “fixed mind-set.” Those who believe that their own abilities can expand over time, however, live with a “growth mind-set.”

Guess which ones prove to be most innovative over time.

“Society is obsessed with the idea of talent and genius and people who are ‘naturals’ with innate ability,” says Ms. Dweck, who is known for research that crosses the boundaries of personal, social and developmental psychology.

“People who believe in the power of talent tend not to fulfill their potential because they’re so concerned with looking smart and not making mistakes. But people who believe that talent can be developed are the ones who really push, stretch, confront their own mistakes and learn from them.”

In this case, nurture wins out over nature just about every time.

While some managers apply these principles every day, too many others instead believe that hiring the best and the brightest from top-flight schools guarantees corporate success.
141 2008-07-06 JOHN McCAIN and Barack Obama are not the only winners to emerge from the long presidential primary season.

The two presumptive nominees, along with the many candidates who bowed out along the way, spent more than $900 million through the end of May, about $470 million more than was spent on primaries in 2000, when both major parties last had competitive primary battles. Nearly half of the current spending has been paid to just a few dozen companies.

Before November, hundreds of additional millions will be paid to the lucky few businesses that have contracts with the winning candidates for campaign necessities like media consulting, airplane charters, direct mail and telemarketing. And as campaign schedules become more crowded, companies that coordinate rallies and events, and those that make signs and bumper stickers, will also rake in dollars.

Even companies that do not cater to the political arena can reap great rewards, according to spending records each candidate has filed with the Federal Election Commission. Bank of America and American Express together received about $7 million in credit card and banking fees from the Obama campaign alone. Verizon was paid more than $4 million by all the candidates combined to put phones into the hands of their employees.

To be sure, some of the companies that received the highest payments passed the money on to other vendors. The Obama campaign, for example, paid $85 million to GMMB, a media consulting firm. But $69 million of that was used to buy advertising time, which means that much of the money paid to GMMB ended up at local television and radio stations.
142 2008-07-06 An article last Sunday about a new dog park in Ward Acres Park misstated the annual fees charged for resident and nonresident owners to take their dogs there. They are $50 per dog for residents and $100 per dog for nonresidents, not a flat $50 for residents and $100 for nonresidents.
143 2008-07-06 In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the lobster shells and sauté for 1 minute. Add enough water so that the pot is 2/3 full, then add the onion, bay leaves and peppercorns. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low and simmer for several hours or overnight. (The longer it simmers, the better.) Using tongs, remove and discard the large shells, then strain the stock through a fine sieve twice. Makes 6 or more cups.
144 2008-07-06 Marissa Amy Karl, the daughter of Nancy Karl and Dr. Mitchell Karl of Manalapan, N.J., was married on Thursday evening to Daniel Mendel Siegman, a son of Joanne Rosenberg and Dr. David Siegman of Highland Park, N.J. Rabbi Ira J. Rothstein officiated at the Rockleigh Country Club in Rockleigh, N.J.

The bride and bridegroom, both 24, met on their first day of college at the University of Pennsylvania, where they graduated, she magna cum laude and he summa cum laude.

Mrs. Siegman is a business development associate at a unit of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. She works in Great Neck, N.Y. She received a master’s degree in health services administration from the University of Michigan.

Her father has a private dental practice in East Brunswick, N.J., and her mother is an occupational therapist with the Visiting Nurse Association of Central Jersey in Red Bank, N.J.

The bridegroom is an associate at Invus Financial Advisors in Manhattan. He evaluates and manages investments in private companies. He also serves on the board of United Neighbors of East Midtown, a nonprofit agency that provides social services to the elderly.

His mother works from New Jersey as a medical writer, working on new drug applications for Allergan, the pharmaceutical company in Irvine, Calif. His father is a clinical psychologist with a private practice in Highland Park.
145 2008-07-06 Aili Mary McConnon, the daughter of Dr. Mari-Ann Ott McConnon of Brampton, Ontario, and the late Dr. Joseph K. McConnon, was married on Saturday evening to Geoffrey Peter McKay Adamson, the son of Nora F. Adamson and Dr. Peter A. Adamson of Toronto. The Rev. Jason van Veghel-Wood, an Anglican minister, performed the ceremony at Trinity College Chapel of the University of Toronto.

The bride and the bridegroom met at Princeton, from which they graduated, both cum laude.

The bride, 28, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a staff editor and writer at BusinessWeek magazine in New York. She received two master’s degrees, in literature from the University of Cambridge and in journalism from Columbia.

Her mother is a family physician at Queen West Medical Associates in Brampton. Her father was an endocrinologist, also in Brampton.

The bridegroom, 31, is a vice president at Goldman Sachs in New York, where he buys and sells bonds on behalf of the firm. He is a chartered financial analyst.

His mother retired as a speech-language pathologist for the Bloorview MacMillan Children’s Center, a rehabilitation hospital in Toronto. His father is a facial plastic surgeon in Toronto and a professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery at the University of Toronto. He is the founder and president of the Canadian Foundation for Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, a nonprofit organization that provides medical treatment and training in Russia.
146 2008-07-06 Emily Zilpha Storey, the daughter of Karen Storey of Berkeley, Calif., and James Storey of Oakland, Calif., was married on Saturday to Matthew Thomas Walsh, a son of Elizabeth Hawkins-Walsh and Dr. Thomas Walsh of Arlington, Va. The Rev. M. L. Agnew, performed the ceremony at St. Ann’s Episcopal Church in Kennebunkport, Me.

Mrs. Walsh, 34, a nurse practitioner, works with breast cancer patients at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She graduated from St. Mary’s College in Moraga, Calif., and received her master’s degree in nursing from Simmons College.

Her father owns a picture framing business bearing his name in Berkeley. Her mother, who is retired, owned Lobelia, a women’s clothing boutique there.

Mr. Walsh, 31, is a vice president for investment banking at Merrill Lynch in New York. He graduated from Georgetown.

His mother is an associate professor at the school of nursing of the Catholic University of America in Washington and the director of its programs for prospective pediatric nurse practitioners and doctors of nursing. His father is a child and adolescent psychiatrist in private practice in Washington and a clinical professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at the school of medicine at George Washington University.
147 2008-07-06 Thank you for the article about jazz pioneers who went overseas. I’m one of those former Russians whose life was changed forever in the late ’50s and ’60s with the help of those ambassadors.

I’m one of those who had a few sleepless and dangerous nights and days in 1962 going to Moscow to see and listen to Benny Goodman. I hurried home every evening to listen to the unforgettable voice of Willis Conover on the radio, followed by songs like “Take the ‘A’ Train.” (Oh, how risky it was.) And I received an amazing jazz magazine from the hands of Duke Ellington in Moscow, 1971. It’s impossible to detail our hard and dangerous discovery of America.

The ambassadors did their business excellently, but my dreams came true only in 1991, when I became a New Yorker. Today, as a proud American citizen, I have to say that in my opinion the idea of jazz ambassadors wouldn’t work now. The world of the ’60s was divided with an Iron Curtain, without an Internet or even a television connection. Russians knew nothing about the real America, only local powerful anti-American propaganda.

In those circumstances what was delivered by “ambassadors” was like something from another planet. In spite of today’s Russian anti-American activity, America can improve its image only from the inside.
148 2008-07-06 Among several enticing salads we especially like the golden beet salad, a gallimaufry of mâche, frisée, lardons, French Roquefort and thinly sliced golden beets in a tangy verjus dressing.

Most appetizer portions at Marly’s are large enough to serve as light entrees. Three pastas and a vegetarian dish are available in small and large portions. We had, as one entree, the smaller serving of truffle mac and cheese ($14 versus the $26 portion). It was more than ample as a main course, especially with a starter and dessert. This dish is not your childhood macaroni and cheese, but a more sophisticated rendering: orecchiette and brie with truffles, garlic and a touch of pancetta. The menu-stated truffle cream sauce, which would have held the shell-shaped pasta together, was missing.

There were several appealing dishes among the entrees. Coriander-crusted red snapper came with a zippy, red onion confit; “Low Country” roasted pork tenderloin was served with baked beans, maple bourbon and apple radish salad; and roasted Atlantic cod was reminiscent of a Portuguese favorite — cod with chorizo sausage, baby clams and white beans in a tomato herb broth.

Marly’s desserts are not mainstream (no tiramisù, praise be!), but sometimes they are a bit too show-offish.

The flourless chocolate cake was decadent enough without poached Bing cherries, two sauces (white chocolate and Earl Grey tea) and almond-cherry gelato. The same overkill was true of lemon-vanilla panna cotta, served with warm Scandinavian crepes and blueberry compote. The dense panna cotta had little lemon flavor. Orange flower risotto pudding sounded intriguing, but came out rather leaden. Its menu-listed “roasted apricot and golden rum raisins” was instead an underripe, bitter whole peach. The best were the simplest, like peach tartlet with ginger ice cream and caramel oat tuiles.

By choosing adroitly, you can have a good and moderately priced meal — and if weather permits, enjoy it even more at one of the tables outside.

THE SPACE Main dining area has wood wainscoting, tile flooring and wood tabletops. Like most places with hard surfaces, this is noisy when more than half full. A quieter spot is a cozy area just past the bar; a few tables outside in front are quieter still. Ground-level entrance.

THE CROWD Many families, especially at dinner; most diners in neat-casual attire. Waiters are friendly.

THE BAR Large, attractive semicircle of polished wood. Sizable, well-priced, global wine list (many California and regional French), beginning at $20 a bottle, with many in the $20 to $30 range; at least a dozen choices by the glass, from $7.

THE BILL Lunch: entrees and salads, $12 to $25. Dinner: appetizers, $7 to $14; entrees, $10 to $36; sandwiches, $11 to $14; desserts, $7 to $9. American Express, MasterCard and Visa credit cards are accepted.

WHAT WE LIKE Golden beet salad, herb-crusted rare tuna, pan-seared sea scallops, lamb Merguez; roasted Atlantic cod, “Low Country” pork tenderloin, coriander-crusted red snapper; peach tartlet, flourless chocolate cake.

IF YOU GO Lunch: 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday to Friday. Dinner: 5 to 9 p.m. Sunday and Monday, 5 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday to Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Sunday brunch: 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Reservations accepted. Free parking available in front of the restaurant and in rear.
149 2008-07-06 In any case, there is plenty of pet pampering. “Survivor”-esque reward challenges mean that winning pairs get the elaborate Dog Bone Suite, along with the power to banish another team to the backyard Dog House. Naturally, it’s often the humans who aren’t so well behaved.

“We’ve got our own Omarosa,” said Wendy Diamond, a judge and the founder of Animal Fair magazine, referring to one of the more controversial contestants on “The Apprentice.” “If you look at this show from a dog’s perspective, can you imagine having to live with some of these owners? That’s what I was thinking: Oh, that poor dog!”

In at least one case stage mother is a more fitting term than dog owner. Beth Joy Knutsen, a New Yorker, employs four talent agents for her little mixed-breed Bella Starlet, a veteran dog actress.

“It’s really amazing to be recognized for her achievements,” said Ms. Knutsen, who has a detailed tattoo of Bella on her leg. “We’ve done so much, and this is the next step in our journey of life together.”

On the show one of Ms. Knutsen’s rivals is David Best, a New York doctor. His life of fancy restaurants and Broadway theater was “all about me,” he said, until he acquired Elvis, a Parson Russell terrier, and “fell head over heels for this little dog.”

Calculating that Nov. 9 was Elvis’s 13th birthday (in dog years), Dr. Best held a “bark mitzvah” last year at Sammy’s Roumanian steak house on the Lower East Side. About a hundred people attended, including the sex expert Dr. Ruth Westheimer, a friend of Dr. Best’s. Video of the event on the Web led to an invitation to take part in “Greatest American Dog.”

Another 400 to 500 dogs and owners auditioned for the show, with producers searching throughout the country for a cross section of breeds and skills. The applicants ranged from house pets to show-dog veterans, though Westminster champions were not considered.

Mr. Cutler, who is an executive producer, said he had been asked to develop a reality show about dogs by Ghen Maynard, executive vice president for alternative programming at CBS, after Stu Schreiberg, another of the show’s executive producers, brought the idea to Mr. Maynard.

“My first reaction was, I can’t believe there isn’t a competition show based around dogs on network television,” said Mr. Cutler, whose reality credits include “Flip That House” on TLC. “Although, having spent many months on it, I can tell you there are a lot of challenges in designing and filming it.” He cited the difficulty in creating competitions that dogs of different sizes, breeds and ages could all handle, adding, “I can see how some might have been discouraged.”

But Ms. Diamond, a veteran of four failed dog-theme reality pilots and two short-lived cable series, has her own theory about the paucity of pet-friendly reality series. “There are dog people, and there are not-dog people,” she said, “and network executives tend to not have that unconditional love.”

Mr. Maynard has a different take. “As much as the animals are characters, reality shows are about people,” he said. “So if the people aren’t compelling, and if we don’t find the relationships they have compelling, then all the dog tricks in the world aren’t necessarily going to make an interesting show.”

And in the end the success of “Greatest American Dog” may hinge on how well it taps into a basic human craving.

“I’ve caught myself running down the hallway in my apartment building to get to the door to see Elvis,” Dr. Best said. “And if you’ve ever been in love, you do that with people, don’t you? There’s one difference: When the door swings open, that person who loves you could one day say, ‘Get lost.’ ”
150 2008-07-06 I WAS a latchkey kid before the term became popular. Both my parents worked for the federal government. I rode a school bus my first two years of school but then moved to a different school at least two miles away from my home.

I remember walking home and then riding my bike back and forth. At the time it was no big deal. Having to fend for myself probably helped me strike out on my own later in life.

After I graduated from Mississippi State University with an accounting degree, I went to work for I.B.M. in Memphis. I joined in June 1967 and received technical and sales training.

By the next August I was given a quota and had my salary cut in half because I was supposed to start earning commissions. I didn’t sell anything the balance of that year and four months into the following year.

I told my boss that maybe I should have pursued accounting, but he encouraged me to keep trying. I ended up with 100 percent of my quota for the remainder of the year and I was No. 2 in my area of specialty, new business, the next year.

Four years later, I started my own computer company, Econocom, with another I.B.M. salesman. We got the idea after hearing a colleague complain about the competition. Companies were buying computers at a discount and then marking them up and reselling them to I.B.M. clients. I.B.M. maintained the machines but lost out on the rental business. We thought the concept was a neat idea and struck out on our own to follow those companies’ lead.
151 2008-07-06 In legislative matters, however, the devil is in the details. Both the Federal Election Campaign Act (amended in the aftermath of Watergate in 1974) and the more recent Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (popularly known as McCain-Feingold) have faced numerous First Amendment challenges, and more are pending. Although the Supreme Court has affirmed the legality of placing contribution and expenditure limits on candidates who accept public financing, it has ruled against imposing similar limits on independent advocacy groups.

Because political expression occupies such a hallowed place in the American constitutional tradition, the court’s First Amendment concerns won’t vanish. Voicing one’s opinions effectively in a political campaign requires money. So the law can’t eliminate the influence of money in politics without also preventing people from making their political views heard.

At the same time, it is vitally important to prevent donors from buying laws and policies in violation of the public trust.

The harsh reality is that free speech and good government are conflicting goals. When forced to choose, the Supreme Court has essentially sided with free speech. Recent decisions by the Roberts court suggest an even stronger tilt in that direction.

That is the crucial backdrop to the 2008 campaign. Despite the McCain-Feingold law, the First Amendment constraint had essentially made it impossible to impose effective legal limits on campaign spending. As the year unfolded, however, the Obama campaign demonstrated the possibility not only of remaining financially competitive but also of raising record sums by relying primarily on small donations from individuals. (Disclosure: I’m one of those contributors.)

This was a significant change. It showed that voters had the power to take matters into their own hands. For them to be able to avoid candidates who are beholden to large contributors, the law need only require full public disclosure of campaign contributions, a step that poses no threat to the First Amendment.

Senator Obama’s fund-raising totals caught many observers off guard. After all, traditional economic models suggest that a campaign financed by small individual donations shouldn’t go far. The problem, according to these models, is that because a campaign’s fate is essentially independent of any given small donation, no individual donor can expect to have any influence. Yet many small donors seem undeterred by that logic.

Campaign finance reform laws notwithstanding, political campaign contributions from large donors have grown explosively in recent decades. Because the marketplace has become so much more competitive, corporations are under much greater pressure to bend the rules to their own advantage. In this effort, the corporate side has had victories like Medicare Part D, the so-called Enron loophole and the deregulation of the financial industry. But the public has often paid a heavy price.

To be sure, the Obama campaign’s move does nothing to reduce the scale of campaign budgets. Nor does the mere fact that small donors can finance successful campaigns guarantee that champions of good government will prevail. A charismatic tyrant, for example, might prove extremely successful as a fund-raiser. Current campaign finance laws, which allow but do not require public financing, provide no protection against the emergence of such a tyrant, either.

The fund-raising success of the Obama campaign, however, has demonstrated that if enough people are willing to withhold donations to politicians who do not credibly refuse to rely on large private contributions, voters have the power to eliminate the fundamental conflicts of interest that have corrupted American politics in recent decades. Because of the First Amendment constraint, that’s something McCain-Feingold and other campaign finance laws simply cannot deliver by themselves.
152 2008-07-06 Indeed, Ms. Abrahams’s home, a four-bedroom 1929 colonial, with flower-pot cutouts in the shutters, cost $300,000 in 1984; she estimates it could sell for $2 million today, based on listings on her block.

A better bet for a starter home might be one of the neighborhood’s 400 condominiums, like the alcove studio bought in April by Laura Bennett, who runs a family jewelry store that has been in the village since 1945.

The unit, with 650 square feet and a terrace through sliding glass doors, cost $325,000, she said.

Next-door Stamford, where she also looked, didn’t have nearly the charm of Old Greenwich’s “quaint old-style street,” with many longtime merchants, said Ms. Bennett.

That street, Sound Beach Avenue, evokes an island resort town envisioned by Norman Rockwell, despite afternoon traffic that can snarl 20 cars deep in both directions. It has an ice cream parlor and an open-air restaurant, a barbershop with a checkered linoleum floor and a toy store with trucks in the window.

With the exception of a pharmacy, “we don’t have any chain stores,” Ms. Bennett said, “and we don’t want them.”

Measuring just over two square miles, with about 10,000 people, Old Greenwich is split in half by a one-two punch of Route 1 and Interstate 95.

Houses north of that noisy dividing line, which tend toward colonials, raised ranches and brick Capes, are about half the price of ones south of it, and smaller, too. Many examples are found in Havemeyer Park, a 1940s subdivision partly developed by the boxer Gene Tunney, where streets like MacArthur Drive, Halsey Drive and Nimitz Place, bear the names of World War II military leaders, apparently in a bid to appeal to returning soldiers.

The more coveted homes sit south, on Old Greenwich’s nearly eight miles of winding coastline, which encompasses coves, ponds and rocky points, close to named microenclaves like Lucas Point, Tomac and Shorelands.

Here, among traces of a late 1800s summer colony, sit hulking shingles and ornate Mediterraneans and eyebrow-dormered colonials; some seem to have been “Victorianized” with porches, fish-scale shingles and additions.

Along prestigious Shore Road, there is evidence of teardowns behind boxwood hedges, where builders have maximized what’s allowed under generally quarter-acre zoning.

Also, because this section is prone to flooding in severe northeasters, many homes have had to prop themselves up in recent years under federal law.

Condos, meanwhile, are scattered, though most are found in two complexes: Old Greenwich Gables, from the 1990s, and the Commons, from the 1970s, each with about 180 units, brokers say. Rental housing, few and far between, usually consists of sublet condos.

In general, the narrow, twisting roads of Old Greenwich are tough enough to navigate by joggers and bicyclists. But dozens of others, marked private, are made almost impassable by sections of fence, alternated like gates on a giant slalom ski course.

Yet house hunting by car might be a moot point anyway. Greenwich bans all for-sale signs, stuck in the lawn or otherwise.

The median price of a home in Old Greenwich in late June, when 76 properties were on the market, was $2.2 million, according to the Greenwich MLXchange, a multiple listing service.

For that price, buyers can typically pick up a 1950s colonial, with 3,500 square feet of space, in move-in condition, according to Rose Revel, a sales associate with William Raveis Real Estate in its Old Greenwich office.

Occasionally, homes trade above $8 million, especially if they’re newly built, with a dock, pool and 6,000 square feet of space, she added.

The prices of these homes are comparable to next-door Riverside, which also has its own train station, but are about half those found in Belle Haven, a gated community with one-acre zoning to the west, brokers say.

Those prices have also held steady in the last two years, while other markets softened, though this spring there has been a dip in prices of about 5 percent, Ms. Revel said. “But it’s usually the overpriced houses that drop,” she said, “especially if the seller is under duress and needs to sell.”

WHAT TO DO

The 24-acre Binney Park, tucked on the western flank of Old Greenwich, has four tennis courts, a pair of band shells and ponds ringed by rhododendrons and hemlocks.

The bigger jewel, though, is Greenwich Point Park, whose 147 acres sweep across about an eighth of the neighborhood. On the beach-lined spit, great egrets pick their way through sea grass while joggers pound paths.

Since 2001, out-of-towners can use the park, after the State Supreme Court ruled in their favor to end a six-year legal battle. But they must pay $25 a day to do so, which is about what locals pay for the season. Only about 3,000 nonresidents took advantage last year — a fraction of the 500,000 total park visitors — possibly rebutting the argument that it would be inundated.

“There was never the deluge that people expected,” said Fred Walters, parks superintendent.

In terms of test scores and reputation, the neighborhood’s schools rank among the state’s best.

The Old Greenwich School, which teaches kindergarten through fifth grade in a stately two-story brick building close to the village, enrolled 413 students last year.

On the 2007 Connecticut Mastery Test, 96 percent of fourth graders at the school met standards in math, while 90 percent did so in reading and 96 percent in writing. Statewide, those numbers were 81 percent in math, 71 percent in reading and 84 percent in writing.

From there, students head to Eastern Middle School, in neighboring Riverside, for Grades 6 through 8. Eastern enrolled 726 students last year. On the mastery tests, 98 percent of eighth graders met standards in math, as 95 percent did in reading and 99 percent in writing; statewide, those numbers were 81 percent, 76 percent and 83 percent.

Greenwich High School offers seven languages, including Mandarin Chinese, and more than three dozen varsity-level sports. Last year, it enrolled 2,712 students, and of the 667-student graduating class, 23 were National Merit Scholarship semifinalists and 43 others received letters of commendation.

On last year’s SAT’s, the average scores were 564 in math, 558 in reading and 563 in writing, compared with statewide scores of 504 in math, 502 in reading and 503 in writing.

Situated on Metro-North’s New Haven line, Old Greenwich has weekday morning rush-hour trains from a red slope-roofed National Register structure about every 20 minutes; they take 53 to 72 minutes to arrive at Grand Central Terminal. Monthly passes cost $237 in person and $232.26 online.

Near the station, there are 524 reserved parking spaces; permits cost $242 a year. There is a waiting list of 120 names, or a wait of about a year, said Allen Corry, the town’s parking services director.

When the railroad arrived in 1872, it gave the station in Greenwich Old Town, where European settlers came ashore in 1640, the name Sound Beach, to avoid confusion with the main Greenwich station down the line, according to Megan McWhorter, an administrator at Greenwich’s historical society.

That name stuck until 1931, when the railroad switched to Old Greenwich. The fire department, however, retains the name Sound Beach.
153 2008-07-06 Instead, all the attention goes toward offering creative, well-prepared food at prices that won’t break the bank. Embat, one of the newest bistronomics, exemplifies the ethos (Mallorca 304; 34-93-458-0855; www.restaurantembat.es). Its two chefs, Fidel Puig (who is in charge of the savory dishes) and Santi Rebés (who handles sweets) and their maître d’hôtel Cristina Torras, met working at Espai Sucre, Barcelona’s cutting-edge dessert restaurant. “Working at Espai really marked us,” said Mr. Puig, 31. “So even though we might make something really traditional like lentils with pigs’ feet, we’ll play with it a bit by adding foie gras.”

At Embat, the white stucco walls are unadorned, and the lighting that falls over the restaurant’s 10 tables comes from nothing more than bare bulbs draped in bronze-colored netting. (“We decorated the place ourselves,” said Mr. Puig.) The restaurant is most popular during lunch, when Mr. Puig and Mr. Rebés offer a reduced selection that might include a fresh cheese ravioli with lemon and bacon, or a cod with wild mushrooms and prunes (those two courses, plus a dessert, run 21 euros).

But even at dinner, when the menu is a little more ambitious, the place is packed, and the prices are still reasonable. On a recent night, the 38-euro tasting menu included a succulent scallop and pork jowl combination, and desserts like a chocolate sponge with coffee “sand” that showed off Mr. Rebés’s avant-garde training.

With its exposed brick walls and simple black-and-white photos, Catalina (Anglí 4 bis; 34-93-206-1791; www.catalina.es) looks as though it belongs on the 1990s Upper West Side. But its owners, Josep Lacambra and Catalina Ballesté have infused their tiny neighborhood restaurant with an air of sophisticated bonhomie. With 12- and 18-euro lunch menus, you won’t find any of those dazzling techniques that contemporary Catalan chefs are known for — no spherifications, no airs — and like other bistronomics, the staff is pretty much limited to the place’s owners.

The snack that opens the meal is, refreshingly, nothing more than olives and salted peanuts. But it’s quickly followed by an amuse bouche of tiny sweet peas poached in a hot fruity olive oil and topped with a single, salty cockle. And from there, through the fried and roasted calçots with romesco, which taste like the best onion rings you’ve ever eaten, through the flaky cod poised on a swath of brandade, Mr. Lacambra’s cooking, with its deft combination of textures and skillful repetition of flavors, offers a sensory lesson in the bright pleasures of new Spanish cuisine.

At the other end of the bistronomic spectrum is Hisop (Passatge Marimón 9; 34-93-241-3233; www.hisop.com), perhaps the most ambitious of the city’s new breed. There is more than one waitress here, and they all dress in black smocks that lend them a vaguely Matrixesque air. Diners get their choice of breads and oils, and a slate of elaborate petit fours accompany coffee. Yet for all the high-end touches, Hisop’s bistronomic credentials are still evident in its physical layout, it’s black-and-red-and-not-much-else color scheme, and in a lunch menu that, while on the high end at 25 euros, is nonetheless one of Barcelona’s best culinary bargains.

Like Coure, its well-regarded partner in bistronomia across the street, Hisop incorporates avant-garde technique to delicious effect. Its chefs, Oriol Ivern and Guillem Pla, dress a single grilled razor clam in thyme foam and blood orange emulsion and top a cool slice of tuna with a ball of salt that shatters when touched by a fork. More robust dishes work just as well, from a delectable rice — the grains creamy as polenta — with caramelized baby squid to a spiced venison loin sauced with ground cocoa beans. And a dessert of chocolate cake, olive oil and shaved black truffle literally made me want to cry, so profound and earthlike were the flavors.

But bistronomia may have no greater spokesperson than Rafa Peña of Gresca. The 31-year-old Barcelona native was hardly born to the calling; he worked for years in information technology, and got his first kitchen job at a pizzeria. But his natural talent has made Gresca (Provença 230; 34-93-451-6193; www.gresca.net) one of the city’s best young restaurants.

Recently, his lunch menu started off with a single grilled sardine, draped in a rectangle of pancetta as translucent as cellophane and sprinkled with sesame seeds that gave the whole fatty package a delectable crunch. A single souffléed egg looked like a Vienna roll atop its mound of savory vegetables, and never collapsed — its white had been separated from the yolk, whipped until stiff, wrapped in plastic so the yolk could be reinserted, then cooked at low heat, in a high-tech treatment that miraculously transformed the simplest of ingredients.

At a presentation on bistronomia that he gave earlier this year, Mr. Peña recalled the famed Spanish chef Ferran Adrià’s statement that a good sardine is always better than a mediocre lobster. That ethos — using high quality, if lowly, ingredients — drives Mr. Peña’s menu planning. After I had polished off his delicious tuna tartare, Mr. Peña told me how he did it.

“I can’t get atún de almadraba,” he said, referring to the famous, and costly, fish that is caught in a maze of nets off the coast of southern Spain. “I have to buy smaller fish, no more than four kilos,” he said. “For 18 euros, I have to think about my costs before anything else.” Words, in these difficult economic times, to give hope to the gourmand.
154 2008-07-06 Two photographs with an article on June 22 about three memorable restaurants in London were transposed. The picture at bottom right of Page 7 was of Devon cockles and mussels steamed in cider at Hereford Road; the picture at top right on Page 10 with the continuation of the article was of Hereford beef burger and parsley salad at Great Queen Street.
155 2008-07-06 Morgans, the New York boutique hotel founded by Ian Schrager in 1984 and now owned by Morgans Hotel Group, is scheduled to reopen in September, after undergoing a four-month, $9 million renovation. The designer, Andrée Putman, is reinterpreting her black-and-white interior by adding gradations of black, white and gray tones, above, which were used everywhere from the lobby to the 113 guest rooms. Original black-and-white photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe will adorn guest-room walls, and the lobby will have a living-room feel, with custom-made wool rugs and vintage chairs bought in Parisian flea markets. Nightly rates start at $449 (www.morganshotel.com).
156 2008-07-06 With so many trails to explore, how does a non-Czech hiker choose the right route? For my wife, Jessie, and me, the answer was simple. We would spend five days walking trails of the Czech Greenways, a network of old trading routes that were recently restored by the Friends of Czech Greenways, a nonprofit group based in Brooklyn.

The network, also called the Prague-Vienna Greenways, is the brainchild of Lubomir Chmelar, a retired architect who splits his time between New York City and Mikulov, a small southeastern town near the Austrian border. He was inspired by the Hudson River Valley Greenway, a revitalization project in New York that has spurred recreation and culture along the riverfront from Westchester County to Albany.

Mr. Chmelar assembled a team of landscape architects and Harvard M.B.A’.s and set off on foot to find the most scenic route between Prague and Vienna. The result is a 250-mile-long network of trails, zigzagging between the two European capitals past ruined castles, cute villages, dense forests and the once-forbidden Cold War border.

A few weeks before my hike, I met up with Mr. Chmelar, 73, at his Manhattan town house, hoping that he’d help me decide which section of the greenway I should hike. Mr. Chmelar, a tall and dapper man who spoke with an Oxford-educated accent, excitedly threw out numerous itineraries.

Eventually, we settled on my jaunt: we’d start halfway between the two capitals, in the picturesque, Unesco-protected southwestern town of Cesky Krumlov, and head east and northeast about 80 miles to the medieval town of Slavonice, about a mile from the Austrian border. The hike offered a mix of gorgeous Baroque towns, varied terrain and a dose of history in a part of the country that tourists rarely see.

Mr. Chmelar offered a little history lesson himself. Under Communism, he said, even hiking was politicized. “The government preferred keeping people in the pub,” he said, “not deep in the forest where they don’t know what they’re up to.”

We set out in mid-May, on a cold morning when the majestic castle of Cesky Krumlov cast a long shadow over the town’s quiet cobblestone streets. My wife and I slung on our medium-size backpacks, filled with two-days’ worth of clothes, bandages (for blisters) and several detailed maps of south Bohemia. Then we boarded a bus.

Although we would cover most the trail by foot, the cheap and efficient Czech bus system also meant we could hop on buses to keep the daily hikes under 25 miles. The idea would be to hit the trail early in the morning, so we could arrive at our destination for a late lunch and spend the remainder of the day sightseeing.

The bus took us over the steep surrounding hills and deposited us 15 miles away in Kaplice, a tiny town at the foot of the Novohradske mountains. We found a red-and-white-striped trail marker in the town’s center that lead us up a dirt path. Within minutes, we were hiking through dense pine forests and skirting yellow-poppy-filled prairies, so bright and expansive that it almost gave me vertigo.

About five hours and eight miles later, we entered Benesov nad Cernou, a village that was little more than a square with a yellow-and-white church at one end. That night, we celebrated our first day of hiking in one of the town’s two noisy pubs. We washed down plates of svickova (roasted tenderloin slathered in gravy and topped with a dollop of cream and cranberries) with pints of Budweiser (the Czech version) while mustached men chain-smoked and screamed at a televised soccer match.

The next couple of days took us through wildly diverse terrain that included two 2,600-foot-high mountains and an English-style park dotted with oak trees and empty fortresses. In Nove Hrady, a hilltop town with a leafy main square, we slept in a monastery once used to house guards who patrolled the border. We strode through sleepy villages where the only sound was the echo of a soccer ball, bouncing off a stone wall.

Fortunately, Trebon, where we spent our third night, was more dynamic. This town of nearly 9,000 people was the perfect rest stop after a trek of some 22 miles through swamps, pine forests and deer-filled prairies. The town has a small castle, an irregularly shaped square flanked by colorful Baroque apartment houses, a spa and a warren of winding lanes — all encircled by thick walls.

But we had not gone there to sightsee. Trebon is famous for the Bohemia Regent Brewery, which has been making its fabulously hoppy beer since 1379. After checking into our hotel — a quiet pension just outside the walls — we made our way to the brewery’s pub, where we sat on the terrace, chatting with a man named Jiri, who told us about his escape to France during the Cold War. As the sun set, we nursed pints of opaque, orange-hued beer, a special unfiltered brew sold only there, and toasted to getting halfway through our hike.

We spent the rest of the day exploring another of Trebon’s oddities. Just outside the town walls were artificial lakes teeming with carp. Some people call carp river scum; the good people of Trebon, however, call them dinner. We ended up at Supinka, a surprisingly chic restaurant that serves carp in just about every conceivable way: fried, pan-seared, and poached; sprinkled with paprika, marinated in soy sauce, drenched in chili or topped with garlic sauce.

This was hardly the hike I expected. Instead of overdosing on bad Czech grub, getting lost in the woods and maybe even encountering a bear, everything had gone smoothly so far. And just to make sure it continued to go well, we went to bed early.

For our final day, we took a bus from Jindrichuv Hradec to Nova Bystrice, about 15 miles from our finish line. A black dog trailed us out of Nova Bystrice until we reached the village of Klaster, which is little more than its namesake, a plus-sized white cloister in the middle of a huge meadow.

About five miles later, we passed the imposing Landstejn castle then hiked through dense fern-blanketed pine forest. I half expected to see a troll or a gnome. Instead, we came across igloo-like concrete bunkers, many which were camouflaged with dirt and tree branches.

These bunkers, it turned out, were built from 1935 to 1938 to guard the Czechoslovak border against an invasion by Hitler. But during the Cold War, the bunkers served the opposite function: to prevent Czechoslovak citizens from escaping to the West. That might explain why the area felt spooky, as if we were trespassing on sacred ground.

As we passed the final bunker, the Renaissance-era bell tower of Slavonice came into view. We trudged through a neighborhood of 19th-century houses and through one of Slavonice’s medieval stone gates.

The tiny town looked like it hadn’t changed in two centuries, with triangular-shaped piazzas lined with old Renaissance apartment buildings painted with colorful, comic-strip-like Biblical scenes. Back in the 15th century, Slavonice was a common stopover on the Prague-to-Vienna trade route. Today, it’s become a magnet for artists and bohemians from Prague.

And, of course, it is also attracting visitors like me, looking for a cheap place to stay and a friendly pub in which to rest my feet and nurse a sudsy beer after an 80-mile Bohemian hike. We put down our backpacks and headed for the first bar we saw.

Hiking and biking maps can be downloaded through the Brooklyn-based Friends of Czech Greenways (www.pragueviennagreenways.org). Others are sold at bookstores in Prague, including the Kiwi Travel Bookshop (Jungmannova 23; 420-224-948-455).

Buses and trains leave Prague regularly for Cesky Krumlov (trains require a change in Ceske Budejovice). Check schedules at www.idos.cz.

Hotels, pensions and private rooms are found in every village (look for signs that say “ubytovani” or “accommodation”).

In Cesky Krumlov, the Hotel Na Louzi (Kajovska 66; 420-380-711-280; www.nalouzi.cz) has 11 rooms in a 15th-century building with an atmospheric pub. Doubles start at 1,350 koruna, about $85 at 15.8 koruna to the dollar.

In Nove Hrady, the 400-year-old Monastery of Divine Mercy (Husova 2; 420-386-301-322; www.klaster.cz) has 21 comfortable rooms, with shared baths, for 340 koruna a person for a single; 300 a person in a double or triple room (add 40 koruna for a single-night stay).

Trebon has lots of hotels, but one of the coziest is Penzion Siesta (Hradebni 26; 420-384-724-831). The pension, which faces the tiny canal near the old walls, has doubles from 1,080 koruna.

In Slavonice, the hip Besidka (Horni Namesti 522; 420-384-493-293; www.besidka.cz) has eight chic rooms, starting at 1,290 koruna in summer.
157 2008-07-06 We already know that the United States government has kept Nelson Mandela on a terrorism watch list and that the U.S. military taught interrogation techniques borrowed verbatim from records of Chinese methods used to break American prisoners in the Korean War — even though we knew that these torture techniques produced false confessions.

It’s a national disgrace that more than 100 inmates have died in American custody in Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantánamo. After two Afghan inmates were beaten to death by American soldiers, the American military investigator found that one of the men’s legs had been “pulpified.”

Moreover, many of the people we tortured were innocent: the administration was as incompetent as it was immoral. The McClatchy newspaper group has just published a devastating series on torture and other abuses, and it quotes Thomas White, the former Army secretary, as saying that it was clear from the moment Guantánamo opened that one-third of the inmates didn’t belong there.

McClatchy says that one inmate, Mohammed Akhtiar, was known as pro-American to everybody but the American soldiers who battered him. Some of his militant fellow inmates spit on him, beat him and called him “infidel,” all because of his anti-Taliban record.

These abuses happened partly because, for several years after 9/11, many of our national institutions didn’t do their jobs. The Democratic Party rolled over rather than serving as loyal opposition. We in the press were often lap dogs rather than watchdogs, and we let the public down.

Yet there were heroes, including civil liberties groups and lawyers for detainees. Some judges bucked the mood, and a few conservatives inside the administration spoke out forcefully. The Times’s Eric Lichtblau writes in his terrific new book, “Bush’s Law,” that the Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner, James Ziglar, pushed back against plans for door-to-door sweeps of Arab-American neighborhoods.

The book recounts that in one meeting, Mr. Ziglar bluntly declared, “We do have this thing called the Constitution,” adding that such sweeps would be illegal and “I’m not going to be part of it.”

Among those I admire most are the military lawyers who risked their careers, defied the Pentagon and antagonized their drinking buddies — all for the sake of Muslim terror suspects in circumstances where the evidence was often ambiguous. At a time when we as a nation took the expedient path, these military officers took the honorable one, and they deserve medals for their courage.

The Truth Commission investigating these issues ideally would be a non-partisan group heavily weighted with respected military and security officials, including generals, admirals and top intelligence figures. Such backgrounds would give their findings credibility across the political spectrum — and I don’t think they would pull punches. The military and intelligence officials I know are as appalled by our abuses as any other group, in part because they realize that if our people waterboard, then our people will also be waterboarded.

Both Barack Obama and John McCain should commit to impaneling a Truth Commission early in the next administration. This commission would issue a report to help us absorb the lessons of our failings, the better to avoid them during the next crisis.

As for what to do with Guantánamo itself, the best suggestion comes from an obscure medical journal, PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases. It suggests that the prison camp would be an ideal research facility for tropical diseases that afflict so many of the world’s people. An excellent suggestion: the U.S. should close the prison and turn it into a research base to fight the diseases of global poverty, and maybe then we could eventually say the word “Guantánamo” without pangs of shame.
158 2008-07-06 McCLINTOCK--William T. (Bill), died peacefully on June 17, 2008, at age 95, in Medford, Oregon. His three daughters Julie McClintock, Mary Kadarauch and Bonnie Cohen, and his son William T. McClintock, Jr., his eight grandchildren and 12 great-gra...
159 2008-07-06 NARKISS--Professor Bezalel, passed Sunday June 29, 2008. The Center for Jewish Art Jerusalem and New York mourns the loss of its founder and leader. He was the outstanding world figure in his field, a prolific writer, scholar, and world authority ...
160 2008-07-06 LISS--Elliott R. July 6, 1931-May 18, 2004 Beloved husband, father and friend. You are remembered everyday. We will always love you and miss you....
161 2008-07-06 An independent group that has been critical of Senator Barack Obama is preparing an initial $1.5 million television advertising campaign over the next two weeks in battleground states promoting what it deems the success of the troop buildup in Ira...
162 2008-07-07 The chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission noted that fares were increased twice since 2004 and said he did not believe that a fuel surcharge or fare adjustment was needed....
163 2008-07-07 Will voters agree with business leaders that New York City’s next mayor needs to have experience in the corporate world?...
164 2008-07-07 Microsoft's latest statement that it might or might not be interested in buying all or part of Yahoo if Yahoo's shareholders replace the company's board is either cunningly devious or deeply confused....
165 2008-07-07 When someone gives you 10 pounds of rhubarb, one reasonable reaction is to make a quick and easy rhubarb soup....
166 2008-07-07 Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda announced that he, like U.S. President George W. Bush, would attend the Olympic opening ceremonies next month....
167 2008-07-07 The Holy Land, a.k.a. Yankee Stadium, seems safe from a (shudder!) hockey finale....
168 2008-07-07 The Republican candidate is set to renew an earlier pledge he'd made to get the budget balanced by the end of a first term in the White House....
169 2008-07-07 CNBC's David Faber discusses Carl Icahn's latest letter to shareholders, in which the billionaire says Microsoft may hold talks -- with a new board.
170 2008-07-07 Updated: Carl C. Icahn is claiming a new backer in his proxy fight at Yahoo: Microsoft. In a new letter to shareholders on Monday, the activist investor once again dangled the prospects of Microsoft returning to the negotiating table for at least ...
171 2008-07-07 General Motors is said to be considering whether or not to sell or close down more automotive brands as the giant car maker looks for a path to profitability. The Wall Street Journal, citing anonymous sources, said Monday that all of G.M.'s brands...
172 2008-07-07 The sale of Deutsche Postbank, Germany's biggest retail bank, could fail because the price potential bidders are willing to pay does not meet the expectations of the lender's parent, Deutsche Post, a German magazine reported on Saturday, according...
173 2008-07-07 After hearing constituents' worries at home, lawmakers return to tackle the high price of gas. The surveillance bill and Medicare may also be on the table this week....
174 2008-07-07 Are private equity firms really the knights in shining armor they're cracked up to be? Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Andy Stern, the international president of the Service Employees International Union, warned that short-term capital injecti...
175 2008-07-07 James Leigh-Pemberton is set to be appointed chief executive of Credit Suisse's British operations, The Financial Times reported. The move is part of a reorganization by the Swiss banker which has cut the cost of its top management team in Europe ...
176 2008-07-07 Italian businessmen are coming to Alitalia's rescue by infusing it with a capital injection of 700 million to 800 million euros ($1.1 billion to $1.3 billion), Reuters said citing a report in newspaper Corriere della Sera. The paper did not cite s...
177 2008-07-07 The sale of two BBC joint ventures is being delayed by a battle over online distribution rights. The two ventures, UKTV and 2entertain, are valued at 1.2 billion pounds ($2.4 billion), The Telegraph reported. In the case of UKTV, the BBC is lookin...
178 2008-07-07 Swiss authorities could require UBS and Credit Suisse to set aside an additional 70 billion Swiss francs ($68.29 billion) in capital, a newspaper reported on Sunday, citing lawmakers. "40 billion for UBS, 30 billion francs for CS," parliamentarian...
179 2008-07-07 Goldman Sachs has opened a hedge fund office in Toronto, according to the Ontario government. Ranked among the top five global administrators for single-manager funds, Goldman Sachs Administrative Services has about $225 billion in assets under ma...
180 2008-07-07 In the Senate, Mr. McCain voted against the Bush tax cuts that he now wants to make permanent, warning that they were tilted toward the rich and were not offset by enough spending cuts to pay for them. In doing so, he incurred the wrath — and suspicion — of many prominent supply-siders. As a presidential candidate, though, his circle of advisers has included both card-carrying supply-siders like Jack Kemp, the former New York congressman, and deficit hawks like Phil Gramm, the former Texas senator.

But Mr. McCain’s early ardor for balanced budgets seems to have cooled slightly in this campaign season, and he is much less specific about spending cuts than he is about tax cuts. Robert Bixby, the president of the Concord Coalition, which advocates balanced budgets, questioned how Mr. McCain’s current proposals could lead to balanced budgets.

“It’s feasible to balance the budget by 2013, but very unlikely under the policies Senator McCain has proposed,” Mr. Bixby said in an e-mail. “The spending cuts are far too vague to be counted on for significant savings and, even if they were more specific, I can’t see how they would come close to offsetting the level of tax cuts he recommends. Looking at this set of proposals it doesn’t seem that McCain fits neatly into either the deficit hawk or supply side camp.”

But Mr. McCain’s tax cut proposals have won over some of his erstwhile supply-side critics. Last year the Club for Growth, a prominent group that advocates tax cuts, issued a paper headlined “John McCain is No Supply-Sider” that faulted him for his earlier opposition to the Bush tax cuts. Now Pat Toomey, the president of the group, said that Mr. McCain’s recent tax cut proposals indicate that supply-siders are getting the upper hand.

“Is John McCain a supply-sider in his bones?” Mr. Toomey asked. “I’m not sure he is. But I do support the positions he has been taking.”

When Mr. McCain spoke about his tax plan in April, he cited the faltering economy in saying that it might take two terms to balance the budget. Since then, he seems to have refined some of his earlier tax cut plans. While his campaign once spoke then of repealing the alternative minimum tax, which is aimed at the wealthy but has increasingly ensnared middle-class taxpayers, his advisers now speak of “phasing out” the tax. And they now say that his proposal to let corporations write off their equipment expenses more quickly is scheduled to be temporary.

Mr. McCain, who has been dogged by his own past statements that he does not understand the economy as well as he should, has not always spoken fluently about economic policy during the campaign.

When he was asked at a town hall-style meeting in Connecticut in April whether he wanted to “raise taxes, cut entitlement spending, cut defense spending, or have a deficit,” Mr. McCain spoke generally about emulating President Ronald Reagan, not mentioning that the deficit nearly tripled during the Reagan presidency.

And when Mr. McCain first outlined his tax cut proposals shortly before the South Carolina primary in January, he eagerly highlighted his new enthusiasm for supply-side economics. “‘Don’t listen to this siren song about cutting taxes,” Mr. McCain said then. “Every time in history we have raised taxes it has cut revenues.” Of course, history is full of tax increases that ended up raising revenues, just as planned, and many economists deride the notion that broad-based tax cuts will spur enough economic growth to raise tax revenues over all.

The two pillars of Republican economic thought vying for supremacy in the McCain agenda do not always coexist easily.

Deficit hawks believe that keeping the budget in balance will put downward pressure on interest rates, which will help the economy. Many supply-siders believe that balancing the budget is a misguided goal, except to the extent that it shrinks government — which is a somewhat different goal. Supply-siders believe that lower taxes will spur economic growth, and that while the lower taxes may lead to bigger deficits in the short term, they will eventually produce more revenue and lead to balanced budgets.

But one of Mr. McCain’s top economic advisers, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who said Monday that Senator McCain’s “plan is to balance the budget by the end of his first term in 2013,” suggested that the two strains are not incompatible. “You’ll never have successful deficit reduction,” he said, “without strong economic growth.”
181 2008-07-07 But in Prospect Park over the weekend, in what was perhaps a snapshot of countless other celebrations throughout New York City, holiday cookouts had a distinctly ethnic flair. Mexicans grilled tortillas and chilies. Ecuadoreans savored corn with grated cheese and mayonnaise. Guyanese grilled goat, Jamaicans grilled jerked meat, and Dominicans ate shrimp kebabs with arroz con gandules — rice with pigeon peas.

Stirring a pot of riz djon-djon, or rice with black mushrooms, Pierre Louis Mario, who traded the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, for Flatbush, Brooklyn, in the summer of 2000, explained: “Our barbecue has the same food — chicken, beef, pork, you know, the same stuff we all buy in the same market. We just cook it differently.”

Before him, on a folding table that held a pot of deep-fried chicken and a salad made of shredded cabbage, carrots, hot peppers and vinegar, in addition to the rice and a couple of other dishes, there was not a hamburger patty in sight.

“I don’t like burgers,” said Marie Paul Altidor, a friend of Mr. Mario’s who was also a Haitian immigrant and was in charge of the cooking.

There were birthday cookouts, reunion and farewell cookouts, and there were cookouts just because. To Manuel Angeles, a Mexican waiter who lives in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, with his wife, Maria Castela, the extra day off gave him good reason to bring his children, nieces and nephews together.

“It’s a holiday weekend, and holiday weekends are enough reason to celebrate,” Mr. Angeles said.

To about 60 Tibetans and Nepalese who gathered for a potluck picnic that featured spicy noodles, dumplings and a selection of chicken and pork seasoned with cracked red pepper, the holiday weekend carried a particularly special meaning.

“We celebrate America’s birthday on Friday,” said Pasang Lama, 47, who works in the produce department at a Manhattan supermarket and lives in Astoria, Queens. “On Sunday, we celebrate the Dalai Lama’s birthday,” he said, referring to the Tibetan Buddhist spiritual leader, who turned 73.

Nearby, two boys born in Brooklyn to Nepalese parents tossed a baseball to and fro in a game of catch. Tibetan music played on a portable stereo. Next to it, a teenage girl listened to an iPod.

There are nine authorized barbecue areas in Prospect Park. Large groups can reserve space, but parties are so common in the summer that families often take whatever vacant patch of grass they can claim, like the area near the park’s southwestern entrance. That was where Maria Flores and her husband, César Vermejo, celebrated their son’s first birthday.

The couple are from Ecuador. Mr. Vermejo said he moved here 10 years ago, and Ms. Flores said she came two years after that. They live in Bushwick and have three sons: 5-year-old Christopher, 3-year-old Edwin and John Carlos, who was born last year, on the Fourth of July.

“America’s birthday is now the birthday of our son,” Ms. Flores said, “and that makes it two times more special.”
182 2008-07-07 The new union is an upgrading of a languishing effort of the European Union known as the Barcelona process, established 13 years ago to help develop the Muslim nations on the Mediterranean’s southern rim and support Israeli-Arab reconciliation.

French officials insist the new union may eventually produce results. It will have co-presidents, from Europe and the Mediterranean — the first ones will be France and Egypt, a way to win Egyptian support — and a permanent secretariat staffed by officials from both north and south, a promise of concrete participation that pleases Morocco and other southern countries.

Its projects are meant to be concrete: fighting pollution in the Mediterranean; developing use of solar energy; improving surveillance of maritime traffic; “civil security cooperation” in case of natural disaster, and for antiterrorism coordination; and establishing cultural exchanges for scientists and students.

But the initial projects “are not the most exciting initiatives,” Ambassador Sijilmassi said, adding, “They won’t mobilize our populations.”

Dominique Moïsi, senior adviser to the French Institute for International Relations, an independent research center, said the union “was a great intuition — to extend the logic of reconciliation to the Mediterranean and deal with the issues as ‘Europe’ — but it was badly mismanaged and presented, so as a result it may lead nowhere.”

When Mr. Sarkozy described the idea, in his presidential victory speech in May 2007, the thought was much grander. He proposed a “Mediterranean Union” limited to countries bordering the sea and spoke of it as a means “to end all hatreds to make way for a great dream of peace and a great dream of civilization.”

His political point was much sharper. A fierce opponent of Turkish membership in the European Union, he intended to offer Turkey this instead, given its importance in the “southern tier,” bordering Europe but not entirely of it.

But the plan outraged Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, because it cut Germany out altogether, while taking on a European character and presuming to use European funds, of which Germany is the top contributor.

The plan also annoyed Spain, which was crucial to the 1995 Barcelona process, and it offended the Turks, because it was another grouping short of what they had long been promised: full membership in the European Union.

Moreover, Mr. Sarkozy initiated the plan before forming a government, throwing the French Foreign Ministry into a tizzy and forcing it to try to both calm France’s European allies and put some substance on the glory of a grand Sarkozian idea.

“The attempt to stick to geography, which excluded Germany and Britain, was the secret vice in the project,” Mr. Moïsi said. “The Germans felt deeply offended and bruised by it, and it confirmed all the negative feelings they had about Sarkozy.”

Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations, an organization formed last year to promote a pan-European foreign policy, said: “The Germans developed an obsession about it. They were being left out, hadn’t been consulted and were expected to help pay for it.” He said that whenever France proposes ideas that “ring of grandeur and old colonial links, Germans worry.”

Katinka Barysch, deputy director of the Center for European Reform, a London-based research group, said: “The Germans were really angry and wanted to show Sarkozy how to do E.U. business before he got started as president. They wanted him to understand that you talk to the Germans and key partners in advance, and precook, and you don’t propose new institutions that exclude other E.U. members and expect to use their money.”

New European Union members from Eastern Europe already think that too much attention is paid to the south and want more attention to a “Black Sea Union” that could include Ukraine, Russia and Turkey.

So having been presented with a grand, French-centered idea, Germany and others have essentially reduced the Mediterranean Union to “Barcelona-plus,” Ms. Barysch said. “Now it’s been Europeanized,” she said.

But the Barcelona process, which was partly intended to support the optimistic Oslo peace process between Israel and the Palestinians, has been, like Oslo itself, a failure. And to get Muslim and Arab leaders to show up for summit meetings with Israel has been increasingly difficult. It is unclear whether the new union will have any more attraction.

“The charitable version,” Mr. Leonard said, is that Mr. Sarkozy was trying to “shake up the Mideast, revive the Barcelona process, reposition France with Israel and move away from the old line” of his predecessor as France’s president, Jacques Chirac, whom some considered to be too pro-Palestinian.

“But many others see it less charitably, as Sarkozy launching exciting things that work as sound bites and then officials struggle to make sense of them,” Mr. Leonard said.

When Mr. Sarkozy proposed the union, it was an idea promoted by the man who wrote it, a close aide, Henri Guaino. The Foreign Ministry felt no ownership, and the new foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, a Socialist, supports Turkish membership in the European Union.

The project was given to a ministry star close to Mr. Kouchner, Alain Le Roy, a former ambassador to Madagascar. Mr. Le Roy and the French minister for European affairs, Jean-Pierre Jouyet, worked to mollify Europeans, Turks and Muslims to create an institution with practical impact.

But the political goals of the original idea, which was to help transform regional government and improve human rights in Mediterranean lands, have largely been gutted. And there remain worries in the south that the European interest is more self-centered: to help the southern Mediterranean countries keep their poor at home, to reduce illegal immigration and to work against terrorism and organized crime. The countries are still squabbling over the founding text of the union.

And Mr. Le Roy himself is soon to depart, to take over United Nations peacekeeping operations. Still, to those who say the union is empty, Mr. Le Roy said, “If it was so insubstantial, no one would have got so worked up about it.”
183 2008-07-07 The supersonic passenger jet known as Alpha Delta retired unscathed in 2003 after nearly 30 years of speeding back and forth over the Atlantic Ocean. But in less than two years in Brooklyn, it already has had its pointy nose knocked off.

In a multicultural crash in the middle of the night, the jet, a Concorde that is owned by a British airline, was hit by a truck that was hauling equipment from a Jamaican music and soccer festival. The truck clipped the distinctive nose cone off the parked Anglo-French jet about 3 a.m. last Monday, prompting an impassioned uproar among the jet’s band of enthusiasts.

To many admirers, the tapered nose, which could be lowered up to 12.5 degrees to clear the pilots’ field of vision during the jet’s steeply angled takeoffs and landings, was what made the Concorde the Concorde. Within 20 hours of the accident, photos of the damaged plane appeared on the Internet, and Concorde lovers were deploring the level of care it had received during its postretirement odyssey in New York.

Bill White, the man responsible for maintenance of the 32-year-old jet, said he learned of the damage indirectly through the Concorde’s fan club. The plane is in Mr. White’s charge because he is the president of the foundation that operates the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum. After British Airways retired its fleet of Concordes, the airline leased the jet to the museum, which displayed it on a barge in the Hudson River.

But when the Intrepid, the aircraft carrier that houses the museum, had to temporarily abandon its rotting pier on the West Side of Manhattan in late 2006, the Concorde had to go, too. British Airways considers the plane a three-dimensional billboard for its service, and it did not want the Concorde to stay with the Intrepid, which is docked at Staten Island and is closed while the West Side pier is being refurbished.
184 2008-07-07 Sarah Kane’s bleak and controversial drama “Blasted,” which drew outrage from audiences and critics when it had its premiere in 1995 at the Royal Court Theater Upstairs in London, will make its New York debut at SoHo Rep as the first show in that theater’s 2008-9 season, the artistic director Sarah Benson has announced. Also planned for next season are “Sixty Miles to Silver Lake,” a two-hander about the relationship between a boy and his father, by Dan LeFranc and directed by Anne Kauffman (“The Thugs”), and “Rambo Solo,” the latest work from Nature Theater of Oklahoma, which presented “No Dice” at Soho Rep last year. In “Rambo Solo” the actor Zachary Oberzan examines his obsession with the story of “Rambo: First Blood” as the company tries to recount the action-adventure plot in all its cinematic glory. Ms. Kane, who also wrote “4:48 Psychosis,” committed suicide in 1999 at the age of 28 but made a lasting impression. A headline over a review by the critic Jack Tinker of The Daily Mail in London called “Blasted,” a three-character drama involving rape and cannibalism, a “disgusting feast of filth.” But Harold Pinter, Caryl Churchill and other playwrights defended it. The American premiere will star Marin Ireland, Reed Birney and Louis Cancelmi, with Ms. Benson directing. Performances are scheduled to begin Oct. 2.

Correction: July 8, 2008 

 A report in the “Arts, Briefly” column on Monday about Soho Rep’s 2008-9 season referred incorrectly to the first production, “Blasted,” by Sarah Kane. It will be the New York premiere of the play, not the American premiere.
185 2008-07-07 Cast members from several Off Broadway productions, including “Altar Boyz” and “Blue Man Group,” below, will participate in a concert in Union Square Park on Thursday at 5:30 p.m. as part of Summer in the Square 2008, a series of free events on Thursdays through Aug. 14 (unionsquarenyc.org). ... New York Classical Theater will present a free outdoor production of George Bernard Shaw’s “Misalliance,” July 31 to Aug. 24 at 7 p.m. at 103rd Street and Central Park West (newyorkclassical.org). ... Gorilla Rep will present free showings of Shakespeare’s “Hamlet” on the Cloisters Lawn in Fort Tryon Park in Inwood, Aug. 7 to 31 (gorillarep.org).
186 2008-07-07 “On a Wing and a Prayer” is, if nothing else, a congenial exercise in cultural bridge building. This hourlong documentary introduces us to Monem and Iman Salam, an investment manager and his wife who live in Bellingham, Wash. He travels too much for work; she scrapbooks; they debate whether to buy a new truck or take an anniversary trip to the Maldives. If this were in Us Weekly it would be called “American Muslims: They’re Just Like Us.”

What makes this family just a little different from us is telegraphed in the film’s subtitle, “An American Muslim Learns to Fly.” Mr. Salam, whose father was a commercial pilot, dreams of taking to the air himself, and his quest to do so in post-9/11 America is supposed to make the program, produced and directed by Max Kaiser, more than a feel-good local news segment. Unfortunately there’s not much drama there.

Mr. Salam tells us that he applied to the bigger of Bellingham’s two flight schools and that he never heard back; we hear third-hand that the school called the F.B.I., but the filmmakers never talk to anyone at the school or the F.B.I. In any case the smaller school, Bellingham Aero, is happy to take Mr. Salam’s business despite what appears to be a cursory F.B.I. inquiry.

Mr. Salam proceeds toward his first solo flight with no real problems beyond fighting to get the school’s banged-up single-engine Cessnas to start on cold Washington mornings. To generate some tension he’s reduced to speculating about whether he would have been safer had he been training in the larger school’s newer planes, which seems awfully unfair to Bellingham Aero.

The film’s most appealing characters work for the school: Harlo Friday, the crusty general manager, and especially Matthew Monson, the preternaturally calm 22-year-old instructor who can’t quite hide his boredom while spending hours in the air with Mr. Salam. If there’s any justice in the world, “On a Wing and a Prayer” will not only increase understanding of Muslim values, it will also drum up some business for Bellingham Aero.

WNET, New York, at 12:30 a.m. Tuesday.

Directed and produced by Max Kaiser; Alex Kronemer and Michael Wolfe, executive producers. Produced by Unity Productions Foundation for APT Presentations.
187 2008-07-07 At a time when online file-sharing is rampant, record stores are closing and consumers are buying singles instead of albums, getting into the music business might seem like running into a burning building. But as record labels struggle to adjust to a harsh new digital reality, other companies are stepping up their involvement in music, going far beyond standard endorsement contracts and the use of songs in commercials.

These companies — like Procter & Gamble, Red Bull and Nike — are stepping outside of their core businesses to promote, finance and even distribute music themselves.

A few months ago, Bacardi announced that it would help the English electronic music duo Groove Armada pay for and promote its next release. Caress, the body-care line owned by Unilever, commissioned the Pussycat Dolls singer Nicole Scherzinger to record a version of Duran Duran’s “Rio” that it gave away on its Web site to promote its “Brazilian body wash” product. The energy drink company Red Bull is starting a label that is expected to release music before the end of the year.

And at least some of this music is credible: a hip-hop song that Nike released by Kanye West, Nas, Rakim and KRS-One was nominated for a Grammy Award for best rap performance by a duo or group.

Unlike Starbucks, which got into the music business to sell CDs at its stores, these companies want to use music to promote products they already sell.

“It’s not about money,” said Sarah Tinsley, a global marketing manager at Bacardi. “It’s a branding exercise.”

Unlike the exclusive album deals that Wal-Mart is striking with groups like the Eagles, these companies are attracting artists at the height of their relevance. Two weeks ago, Converse released a single by a combination of artists that The Times of London called “a three-headed Frankenstein’s monster of coolness”: the Strokes singer Julian Casablancas, the producer Pharrell Williams and the R&B performer Santogold. Offered as a free download on Converse’s Web site, the song received mostly favorable reviews from both blogs and newspapers.

“Our instructions to them were to have fun, as though they were doing any song,” said Jon Cohen, co-founder of Cornerstone, a music marketing company that has set up music deals for Converse, Nike, Caress and Smirnoff. “It doesn’t matter where the music comes from as long as it’s great.”

A decade ago, signing a record contract with a body spray company would have been unthinkable for most artists. But at a time when labels’ promotion budgets are declining, consumer brands can offer valuable exposure in print and television ads. Jeff Straughn, Island Def Jam’s vice president for strategic marketing, said that Tag might spend seven times as much promoting a release as a traditional label.

“When I started in this business 10 years ago, it was hard to get an artist to stand in front of a sign with a logo on it,” said David Caruso, the co-founder of Acme, the agency that negotiated the deal between Island Def Jam and Tag. “Now brands are engaging their audiences with content.”

But the brands walk a fine line by making sure that consumers are aware that they financed a song without having it simply seem like a commercial.

“We wanted it to be like they were making their own record,” said Rob Stone, a Cornerstone co-founder, referring to the song that Kanye West, Nas and KRS-One made for Nike with a celebrated producer, Rick Rubin. “None of them had to mention the Air Force 1,” a Nike shoe.

Instead, Cornerstone asked the artists to write a track about the theme of timelessness and promoted it like any other song, making a video, promoting it to radio and selling it on iTunes. (Nike’s profits went to the Force4Change Fund, a charity for youth leadership programs.) As it turned out, the song, “Better Than I’ve Ever Been,” does mention the sneakers as well as “Nike’s straight classic.”

For artists, deals with brands can be more lucrative than traditional record contracts. Performers usually get an advance or fee in addition to a royalty rate higher than that given by record labels, which is usually $1 to $2 per sale. If the artist is signed to a label, he usually has to share the money he makes. In most cases, control of the recording copyright reverts to the artist or label after a set period of time.

In another deal Cornerstone negotiated, the electronic music duo Crystal Method remixed some of its songs to create a workout soundtrack that Nike could sell on its page in Apple’s iTunes store. The sneaker company gave Crystal Method a small advance but a generous royalty, according to Richard Bishop, the duo’s manager.

The mix sold nearly 40,000 copies online, according to Nielsen SoundScan, and more than 15,000 copies in traditional stores once Nike’s period of exclusivity ended. Crystal Method’s last traditional album sold 184,000 copies, but Mr. Bishop said the duo made more money on the Nike project because the royalty rate was so much better.

“I think in the world today, it doesn’t make a difference to the consumer if a record comes out on Warner Music, EMI, Red Bull or Diesel Jeans,” Mr. Bishop said. “Artists may be better advised to put their music out with a brand to get better reach and bigger advertising.”

Groove Armada should also do well in its deal with Bacardi, according to the band’s manager, Dan O’Neill. The yearlong contract calls for the duo to play 25 Bacardi events and give the liquor company online distribution rights to its new E.P. — a release with less music than a CD — which is due in October.

In exchange, Groove Armada receives a monthly fee, money for recording costs and a generous royalty on music Bacardi sells or gives away. It retains the copyright to its recording, as well as the right to sell its E.P. in traditional outlets, where it will presumably benefit from the money Bacardi spends on marketing.

Music executives say many of the acts now striking deals with brands are popular enough to do so because they have already benefited from major-label marketing campaigns: Crystal Method was signed to Interscope, Groove Armada to Sony.

Although consumer brands are taking on roles once reserved for labels, they are investing so much money in music because the same digital technology that whipsawed the music business is also making it harder to reach consumers.

“We don’t just want to talk to people,” said Anne Jensen, a brand-building director at Unilever who works with Caress. “We want to give them something that adds value to their lives.” She said that Ms. Scherzinger of the Pussycat Dolls was perfect for the campaign because she embodied the spirit of Brazil. (Though, truth be told, she is Hawaiian, Russian and Filipino.)

Ms. Scherzinger will get money from her deal with Caress as well as exposure in the brand’s television campaign — the kind of advertising that a major label would not buy, even for a star.

“If you’re only looking at these deals in terms of money, you’re going to miss what they do for each party,” said Jeff Haddad, who manages Ms. Scherzinger and the Pussycat Dolls.

Danny Goldberg, founder of the management company Gold Village Entertainment and former chairman and chief executive of Mercury Records, said that deals with brands would turn off fans of some bands but could be effective in promoting other performers.

“In another era, there was a stigma attached to this,” he said. “Now it’s just another way to expose your music.”
188 2008-07-07 Dove is trying to rekindle customer interest in its four-year-old “Campaign for Real Beauty,” which shows images, including curvy women in white underwear, that have sometimes eclipsed the charitable cause that underpins it.

And that, some critics say, is the problem: , which manufactures the Dove brand of soaps, shampoos and body lotions, uses the campaign to raise money for a fund that promotes healthy body images to young girls, but the effort is faltering because consumers do not connect its products to the cause.

So Dove is changing course. Last week, it introduced a television spot that directly links the purchase of Dove products to financial support for the Dove Self-Esteem Fund. The 30-second commercial, shows a girl bombarded with unrealistic images of skinny models and closes with the line: “And you support our efforts every time you buy Dove.” (To clear up any lingering confusion, the ad, created by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, also shows a Dove moisturizing soap bar.)

The ad may not be enough to silence critics. Dove says that it does not designate a dollar amount or percentage of product sales for its Real Beauty campaign, but it said it had spent more than $10 million on the Self-Esteem Fund, which also takes donations from the public. By comparison, the Dove brand brought in sales of more than $2.5 billion last year, outselling competitors like Ivory from .

Kathrine E. O’Brien, marketing director for Dove, said that the Self-Esteem Fund will spend $1.5 million to $2 million this year. The goal is to reach five million girls by 2010, and so far the number stands at two million, she said. Most of the outreach is done through a collaboration with the , which offers a program to help girls counter idealized beauty images.

The campaign has “spent a lot of time debunking stereotypes, and now it’s time to let people know what we’ve been doing to build self-esteem,” Ms. O’Brien said.
189 2008-07-07 Kirchen took the green sprinter’s jersey as a consolation prize, the result of his two finishes. Valverde held on to the race leader’s yellow jersey for a second day.

If this year’s race included time bonuses, Kirchen might be in yellow.

But that was one of the modifications this year by the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, who has said he prefers the purity of measuring the race in real time. Thus, Valverde leads Kirchen and 11 other riders, including Óscar Freire and Cadel Evans, by a second. Another 32 riders are seven seconds back.

The day seemed as if it might provide a reason for a French celebration. Two of the country’s top riders — Thomas Voeckler of the Bouygues Telecom team and Sylvain Chavanel, leader of the Cofidis team — set out on an early breakaway that by the middle of the stage had an advantage of six and a half minutes.

Rolling over a series of small climbs as they traversed the Brittany peninsula, Voeckler and Chavanel were later joined by Christophe Moreau, a former French national champion, and David Lelay, a 28-year-old native of St.-Brieuc.

The four put in a furious effort to keep the charging peloton at bay, but the gap fell steadily to less than a minute about 12 miles from the finish. With two and a half miles left, the four were still 28 seconds in front, and with less than two miles to go, Chavanel attacked and left his countrymen behind.

He remained in front until the final mile, when the peloton closed in and Fabian Cancellara, the world time-trial champion, attacked. Cancellara’s pace slowed as the road climbed a moderate incline to the finish, and the group came back together with 350 yards to go. That was when Hushovd turned on his sprint.

“Since I’m not a pure sprinter,” Hushovd said, “after a day like today with some climbs, maybe I have a bit more energy in my legs” than the sprinters who are faster on flat finishing terrain.

The peloton appeared to have settled down a bit after Saturday’s jittery opening day, resulting in fewer crashes Sunday. Juan Mauricio Soler-Hernández, who crashed Saturday and severely injured his right hand, started Sunday with a splint on his wrist and with bandages on his left knee and left forearm. A wad of gauze was also packed on his left hip, where a wound had begun to bleed even before he mounted his bike for the start in Auray.

Soler-Hernández, whose X-rays were negative for a fracture, noticeably suffered during the stage, finishing last, more than seven minutes behind Hushovd. Riders have competed with worse injuries, but Soler-Hernández seemed close to being spent at the end of the day.

It is unclear if he will start Monday in St.-Malo, a nearby village, for the final day of racing in Brittany. From there, the peloton will travel a more traditional early Tour route, a relatively flat 129.3 miles to Nantes. After two stages with finishes marked by challenging hills in the final miles, the true sprinters will finally have a chance to rev up their jets and contest a finish.
190 2008-07-07 THE TECHNOLOGY ECONOMY Much as Microsoft dominated the software industry in its day, Google is dominating the search advertising market today. But it is dominating  by different means, prompting a rethinking of the assumptions about the behavior o...
191 2008-07-07 Pick a Price     For iPhone 3G...
192 2008-07-07 Intel Bets     On the Past...
193 2008-07-08 M.T.A. New York City Transit disputed the findings of the Straphangers Campaign, arguing that it had increased bus spending by more than $200 million a year and that service improvements had outpaced ridership increases since 2001....
194 2008-07-08 An audit by the city comptroller has found that a two-acre, city-owned site along the East River has structural damage, with a parking garage at the site at risk of “catastrophic failure.”...
195 2008-07-08 Exploring entrepreneurship as an option for women in later life....
196 2008-07-08 The Iraqi government's discussion of a scheduled withdrawal of American troops poses special complications for John McCain....
197 2008-07-08 Your world leaders: are they what they eat at fancy summits?...
198 2008-07-08 The Fox thriller 'Fringe' and CBS' sci-fi drama 'Eleventh Hour' will be the highest-rated new shows next season, an analyst predicts....
199 2008-07-08 An article in The New Republic examines whether human rights pressure will loosen the Chinese government's grip on power....
200 2008-07-08 It's getting harder to start a hedge fund - unless the word "Goldman" appears in your letterhead. The number of hedge fund start-ups in the United States fell by 50 percent in the first half of 2008 compared with the same period last year, accordi...
201 2008-07-08 The consultant who worked on Mr. McCain's 2000 campaign says he won't sign up this time around, citing how speculation has been damaging to the campaign....
202 2008-07-08 The Democratic candidate issues his first general cycle contrast ad with McCain positions on oil and energy, coupling his opponent with President Bush....
203 2008-07-08 After often referring to the economy as "slowing" down, the Republican candidate shruggingly acknowledges the dreaded "R" word....
204 2008-07-08 The one-minute ad takes on Barack Obama and one of the signature themes of his campaign -- hope....
205 2008-07-08 So what if Steven P. Jobs once called the Segway's design inelegant? Doug Field, Segway's longtime technology chief, is joining Apple as a product designer....
206 2008-07-08 Hedge funds are on a hiring binge, taking advantage of cutbacks at investment banks. Star traders, senior executives and whole teams have been recruited by funds recently as they look to capitalize on the banks' woes for their own expansion, The F...
207 2008-07-08 Energy pricing agency Platts has put Lehman Brothers under a temporary review that effectively excludes it from trading benchmark-setting oil contracts, Reuters reported citing unnamed sources on Monday. The exact cause of the move was not immedia...
208 2008-07-08 UTI Asset Management has deferred plans to launch an initial public offering, sources told Reuters. India's No. 4 mutual fund firm made the decision after falling stocks hit investor sentiment. "It's deferred," one source in UTI told Reuters, refe...
209 2008-07-08 CVC Capital Partners has opened a Beijing office and appointed former Goldman Sachs executive Zhu Wei to head it, FinanceAsia reported. This is CVC's sixth office in the region where it already has branches in Hong Kong, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney a...
210 2008-07-08 Abu Dhabi's International Petroleum Investment Company and MTM Capital Partners, have launched a $1.5 billion fund to be used for investments in projects to capture natural gas, The Khaleej Times reported. MTM Capital Partners Limited, a subsidiar...
211 2008-07-08 Peter Leko won the Dortmund tournamnent with an easy last round draw against Arkadij Naiditsch of Germany. His two closest pursuers, Ian Nepomniachtchi of Russia and Jan Gustafsson of Germany, either of whom could have caught him with a win, inste...
212 2008-07-08 A European Parliament committee voted to give national regulators the power to force dominant telephone companies like Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom to open their networks, saying the proposal would help competition. The legislation, proposed last year by a European Telecommunications commissioner, Viviane Reding, will allow regulators in the 27-member European Union to split the high-speed networks and telephone services of dominant phone companies into separate units. Telecommunications companies have opposed the legislation, which requires approval from the entire European Parliament and national governments to become law, warning that it risks of harming investments in new fiber-optic networks and does not bolster competition.
213 2008-07-08 A British police department reached an agreement with the parents of Madeleine McCann to provide them with 80 pieces of information from its investigation into her disappearance from a resort town in Portugal last year. In return for the Leicestershire police force’s agreeing to release the information, Madeleine’s parents, Kate and Gerry McCann, agreed to abandon a lawsuit seeking release of all information held by the department. Madeleine vanished from the family’s apartment in Praia da Luz on May 3, 2007, shortly before her fourth birthday.
214 2008-07-08 The authority no longer makes such estimates public, but the data on arrests and summonses suggests that while turnstile jumping has not gone the way of the token, it is no longer as common as it was in the early 1990s. But even as fares rose and the subway system improved, the fine for fare beating remained unchanged.

It was set at $60 in 1984 and went into effect the following year, when a special tribunal was set up to handle transit offenses, like turnstile jumping, riding on the outside of a subway car or playing loud music in a station.

The change in the fine for fare evasion was approved last month by the authority’s board, but Monday was the first day tickets were issued carrying the higher fine.

The larger fine was to help with enforcement at the start of the new Select Bus Service on the Bx12 route in the Bronx. In the Select Bus Service, which began last week, passengers pay their fare before boarding the bus, as a means of reducing the time it takes for them to board. They pay at machines on the sidewalk and receive a receipt, which they must keep to show to inspectors who may be on the bus.

But the higher fine also applies to old-fashioned turnstile jumping in the subway.

The authority said that it might increase the fine for other offenses as well and was also considering asking the State Legislature to raise the maximum fine it can charge to $200.

“Clearly, we believe that a deterrent such as a higher fine will get the attention of some people who would contemplate evading the fare,” said Paul Fleuranges, a spokesman for New York City Transit. “It’s not going to stop everybody, but the fact of the matter is, when they’re hit with that fine, that will give them a pause the next time they’re thinking about doing it.”

Even as crime in the subway has dropped, enforcement of fare evasion has remained an important tool for policing, according to Chief James P. Hall, commander of the Police Department’s Transit Bureau.

He said that so far this year, 44 people who were stopped for turnstile jumping turned out to be wanted for a more serious crime.

In one case on June 3, officers at the Gates Avenue station in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, stopped a 17-year-old for turnstile jumping at about 7 p.m. When they checked his name in police computers, they found that he was a suspect in a mugging done at gunpoint earlier in the day. He was arrested for fare evasion and then turned over to detectives, who charged him with the mugging.

“It’s still a great tool because bad guys still think that they can jump over, and then you find out they’re badder than just the jumping,” Chief Hall said. “They’re real bad.”

The police will make an arrest if the person refuses to give identification, has an outstanding warrant, is wanted for another crime or has a history of arrests or summonses in the transit system.

Arrests for fare beating increased last year to 15,247, from 13,091 in 2006. But the number of fare evasion summonses issued was down last year, to 84,985 from 89,580 in 2006.

Still, the majority of turnstile jumpers receive tickets and some of those decide to fight the summonses in the special tribunal, known as the Transit Adjudication Bureau.

On Monday, at the bureau’s offices in Downtown Brooklyn, several people who had received a summons for fare evasion tried to make their case before an administrative judge. Most had been caught while going through one of the subway’s floor-to-ceiling turnstiles with another person — essentially trying to get two people into the subway on one fare.

Carlo Knoell and Jeannine Troendle, tourists from Basel, Switzerland, said they were ticketed recently while entering the subway at Grand Central Terminal.

Mr. Knoell told a reporter that he and Ms. Troendle both had 30-day unlimited ride MetroCards but that they could not get one of the cards to work that day.

As the two repeatedly swiped the nonfunctioning card, a growing crowd behind them began to complain, Mr. Knoell said.

“The place was very crowded,” he said. “People were getting angry.” He said that a man behind them suggested that they use a single card and pass through one of the floor-to-ceiling turnstiles together. When they did, they were stopped by the police.

Mr. Knoell said that since he had already paid for unlimited rides, he did not think his action had cheated the transit system.

Both Mr. Knoell and Ms. Troendle face a $60 fine, since they got their tickets before the fine went up. But Mr. Knoell was stung by the fact that they had both already paid $81 for their MetroCards, and he appealed to a judge at the hearing to see things his way.

He was told he would learn the judge’s decision in an e-mail.
215 2008-07-08 In the Senate, Mr. McCain voted against the Bush tax cuts that he now wants to make permanent, warning that they were tilted toward the rich and were not offset by enough spending cuts. In doing so, he incurred the wrath, and suspicion, of many prominent supply-siders. But as a presidential candidate, Mr. McCain has had a circle of advisers that included both card-carrying supply-siders like Jack Kemp, the former New York congressman, and deficit hawks like Phil Gramm, the former Texas senator.

But Mr. McCain’s early enthusiasm for balanced budgets seems to have cooled slightly in this campaign, and he is much less specific about spending cuts than he is about tax cuts. Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, which advocates fiscal discipline, questioned how Mr. McCain’s current proposals could lead to balanced budgets.

“It’s feasible to balance the budget by 2013, but very unlikely under the policies Senator McCain has proposed,” Mr. Bixby said in an e-mail message. “The spending cuts are far too vague to be counted on for significant savings and, even if they were more specific, I can’t see how they would come close to offsetting the level of tax cuts he recommends. Looking at this set of proposals, it doesn’t seem that McCain fits neatly into either the deficit hawk or supply-side camp.”

But Mr. McCain’s tax cut proposals have won over some of his erstwhile supply-side critics. Last year the Club for Growth, a prominent antitax group, issued a report under the headline “John McCain is No Supply-Sider” that faulted him for his earlier opposition to the Bush tax cuts. Now, Pat Toomey, the group’s president, said that Mr. McCain’s recent tax cut proposals indicated that supply-siders were getting the upper hand.

“Is John McCain a supply-sider in his bones?” Mr. Toomey asked. “I’m not sure he is. But I do support the positions he has been taking.”

When Mr. McCain spoke about his tax plan in April, he cited the faltering economy and said that it might take two terms to balance the budget, explaining that “economic conditions are reversed.” Since then he seems to have refined some of his earlier tax cut plans. While Mr. McCain’s campaign once spoke of repealing the alternative minimum tax, which is aimed at the wealthy but has increasingly ensnared middle-class taxpayers, his advisers now speak of “phasing out” the tax. And they now say that his plan to let corporations write off their equipment expenses more quickly would be temporary.

Mr. McCain, who has been dogged by his own past statements that he does not understand the economy as well as he should, has not always spoken fluently about economic policy during the campaign.

When he was asked at a town-hall-style meeting in Connecticut in April whether he wanted to “raise taxes, cut entitlement spending, cut defense spending, or have a deficit,” Mr. McCain spoke generally about emulating President Reagan, not mentioning that the deficit nearly tripled during the Reagan presidency.

And when Mr. McCain first outlined his tax cut proposals shortly before the South Carolina primary in January, he highlighted his new enthusiasm for supply-side economics. “Don’t listen to this siren song about cutting taxes,” Mr. McCain said then. “Every time in history we have raised taxes it has cut revenues.” Of course, history is full of tax increases that raised revenues, just as planned, and many economists deride the notion that broad-based tax cuts will spur enough economic growth to raise tax revenues over all.

The two pillars of Republican economic thought vying for supremacy in the McCain agenda do not always coexist easily.

Deficit hawks believe that keeping the budget balanced will put downward pressure on interest rates, helping the economy. Many supply-siders believe that balancing the budget is a misguided goal, except to the extent that it shrinks government, which is a somewhat different goal. Supply-siders believe that lower taxes will spur economic growth, and that while lower taxes may lead to bigger deficits in the short term, they will eventually produce more revenue and lead to balanced budgets.

But one of Mr. McCain’s top economic advisers, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who said on Monday that Mr. McCain’s “plan is to balance the budget by the end of his first term in 2013,” suggested that the two arguments are not incompatible. “You’ll never have successful deficit reduction,” he said, “without strong economic growth.”
216 2008-07-08 “This is how the mayor treats working people?” he asked, adding, “I believe the mayor is a bold, innovative and pragmatic man, but he has an Achilles’ heel; he doesn’t feel for other people.”

In May 2004, fares were increased by 26 percent, the first such increase in eight years. Three-quarters of that increase went directly to the drivers; the rest benefited medallion owners in the form of lease caps, the amount the owners are permitted to charge drivers leasing their medallions.

In November 2006, the commission doubled the fare passengers pay while waiting in traffic to $24 an hour from $12, and all of that increase went directly to drivers, said Allan J. Fromberg, a spokesman for the commission.

According to the commission, the average daily gross earnings for a driver who owns his or her own vehicle and leases a medallion were $290.75 in June, unchanged from June 2007. (Fleet drivers and lease drivers, who rent both the car and the medallion, make 20 cents an hour less on average, according to the commission.)

But because per-gallon gasoline prices increased to $4.45 from $3.44 over the same period, the actual earnings per hour for drivers fell, to $13.41 from $14.59 for drivers of a Ford Crown Victoria, and to $16.12 from $16.69 for drivers of the Ford Escape, which runs on a hybrid of gasoline and electricity and has a significantly better fuel economy rating.

Several drivers said they had to work longer hours to make ends meet.

Victor Salazar, an owner-operator who drives a 2007 Toyota Sienna, and who took part in the protest, said: “To fill up the gas tank, I spend almost $80 per shift. My shift now is about 14 hours. I have to work more hours to compensate. I work six shifts a week. Actually it’s more like six and a half, because on my day off, I have to go out.”

Factoring in vehicle maintenance, car insurance, health insurance, liability insurance, the mortgage on his medallion and even the expense of looking for a bathroom while on the road, Mr. Salazar said, “It’s terrible.” He added, “It’s just amazing that I end up paying this much, even without having any accidents.”

Loubert Alexander, another owner-operator, said, “Two years ago, a fill-up cost $40; now it’s double that.” With the hot summer weather, he noted, cabs are burning even more gasoline as they run air-conditioning. (Cabdrivers are required to turn on air-conditioning if the customer requests it.)

The New York drivers were joined by Ronald Blount, president of the Taxi Workers Alliance of Pennsylvania, based in Philadelphia. “If I have to pay an extra $30 to $40 a day at the pump, that’s my rent,” Mr. Blount, a lease driver for 25 years, said. “So we came up to show solidarity.”
217 2008-07-08 WASHINGTON (AP) — Financial regulators announced on Monday an information-sharing agreement aimed at better detecting potential risks to the nation’s financial system.

The pact, between the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission, should enhance regulatory cooperation between the two agencies, allowing them to carry out their regulatory duties more effectively, officials said.

Under the agreement, the agencies will share information and cooperate across a number of important areas of common interest, including efforts against money laundering, bank brokerage activities and the clearing and settling of financial transactions conducted by both banks and investment firms.

The Fed is the main regulator of banks, while the S.E.C. oversees Wall Street investment firms.

The two agencies have been working together more closely — especially since March with the near collapse of the investment firm Bear Stearns. JPMorgan Chase & Company took over Bear Stearns after a run brought the troubled firm to the brink of bankruptcy.

That situation, which came about quickly and raised questions about the financial health of banks and other Wall Street firms, underscored the need for the Fed and the S.E.C. to better combine their resources and share information to bolster their ability to detect problems.
218 2008-07-08 The new Madame Tussauds museum in Berlin said a wax figure of Adolf Hitler whose head was ripped off would be put back on display once it is repaired, Agence France-Press reported. On Saturday, just after the museum opened, a former police officer evaded security guards and tore the head off the figure, which depicts Hitler looking grim and defeated seated behind a desk in a re-creation of his bunker. The incident has attracted widespread news coverage and commentary, including accusations that the museum’s decision to include a Hitler figure was in bad taste and was made only to generate publicity. A spokeswoman for Madame Tussauds told the news agency the statue would return to its place in the museum’s history section as soon as possible. “Adolf Hitler represents a defining moment in German history that cannot be denied,” she said, adding that the display was created “with sensitivity and respect.” The 41-year-old who was arrested, identified only as Frank L., told reporters that he came up with the idea over drinks with friends, who dared him to do it; he said he now regretted it. “I did not do it for money, nor for fame,” he told the online edition of the newspaper Die Welt (welt.de), “though I suppose I will now be famous for a while.”
219 2008-07-08 EMI, the music company that was bought by the private equity firm Terra Firma last year for about $6.4 billion, has hired Elio Leoni-Sceti, 42, to be the chief executive of its recorded music division, the company said on Monday. Mr. Leoni-Sceti, who will take over on Oct. 1 as the chief executive of EMI Music, is the latest in a string of recruits from outside the music business. The company, which has sustained heavy losses in recent years, releases music by the Beatles, Coldplay, Norah Jones and others. Born in Rome, Mr. Leoni-Sceti currently serves as an executive vice president at Reckitt Benckiser, which owns brands including Lysol and Woolite. In an interview on Monday, he said he believed that understanding music consumers was crucial to turning around the company. “Understanding where they will need music in the future, where they will go, how they will interact with it,” Mr. Leoni-Sceti said, “and try to position the company so that you are there first.”
220 2008-07-08 The library’s exhibition doesn’t bother with any such background. This is sound-bite history, featuring the creators who made it into the industry’s Hall of Fame.

Floor-to-ceiling panels at the bottom of the library’s grand staircase display copies of ads with short explanations. In the early decades of the 20th century, for instance, “reason why” ads dominated, long essays explaining to consumers the rationale for buying a product. Fear was a popular strategy. A full-page ad for Postum drinks warns men that they might crack up if they don’t replenish their energy.

Raymond Rubicam, Rosser Reeves and Ted Bates helped create the Madison Avenue image that was exalted and attacked in the century’s middle decades. Reeves used what he called the unique selling proposition — that inimitable quality that differentiates a product from the rest. For M&M’s, it was that the candy “melts in your mouth, not in your hand.”

Shirley Polykoff, a Jewish adwoman from Brooklyn, was able to break into the country-club, all-male environment with her extraordinary success with Clairol, which turned hair dye, with its somewhat tawdry associations, into the girl next door’s best friend.

Leo Burnett centered his empire in Chicago, where he created imaginary figures to sell products — Tony the Tiger, the Pillsbury Doughboy and the Jolly Green Giant.

The modern-day visionary in the industry was Bill Bernbach, known for the creative revolution of the 1960s. He was the first to team up art directors with copywriters. The result was high-impact images twinned with memorable slogans. His agency, Doyle Dane Bernbach, created the “Lemon” and “Think Small” ads for Volkswagen, “You don’t have to be Jewish to love Levy’s real Jewish rye” and “We try harder” for Avis.

Mary Wells Lawrence, who in 1967 became the first woman to start an ad agency and also originated Alka-Seltzer’s “I can’t believe I ate the whole thing” ad, was inspired by Bernbach.

All the people featured have a place in the ad industry’s Hall of Fame, like Jerry Della Femina, who created the liar Joe Isuzu and a singing cat for Meow Mix. George Lois, who ran his own ad agency but is best known for the covers he created for Esquire magazine, is represented by his “I want my MTV!” campaign. (Some of his Esquire covers are currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art.)

Also there is Lee Clow, who created the Energizer bunny (which became so famous that it was spoofed in other advertisements) and a series of ads for Apple, including the “1984” commercial with an Orwellian image of a runner smashing a big screen and the “Think Different” ads.

The library’s exhibition is sponsored by the One Club, the trade’s nonprofit cheerleading arm, so there is very little about advertising’s darker moments and no discussion of questions like advertising’s influence on consumption, waste and values.

Historical information and context that might help illustrate advertising’s impact on the larger culture are also missing. Mr. Clow’s “1984” is described as one of the most talked about advertisements in history, but there is no explanation of why it made such an impact. Nor is there any mention of how Cliff Freeman’s “Where’s the Beef?” ad for Wendy’s ended up becoming a catchphrase during Walter Mondale’s 1984 Democratic primary battle with Gary Hart.

“We didn’t really want to tackle the history of advertising,” said Mary Warlick, the chief executive of the One Club and co-curator of the exhibition. “We wanted to capture the people who were at the top of their game and really did change advertising.”

Though print is the star of this show, television advertisements make their appearance on a large flat-screen TV behind the staircase. (Those not already familiar with the ads, though, may have trouble placing them in the larger historical context, since no dates are included.)

The library, one of the New York Public Library’s research libraries, hosted this exhibition because of its unusually large collection of old periodicals and newspapers, which aspiring ad executives can page through to see the earliest versions of American selling techniques.

Perhaps the most revealing parts of the show are the recorded interviews and book excerpts that talk about the business and give the listener a sense of the personalities involved.

Ms. Lawrence, who currently lives on a yacht in the Mediterranean, recalls that when she started, it was just to earn some extra money for fashions that showed off her long Norwegian legs. The impeccably tailored David Ogilvy, creator of the man in the eye patch for Hathaway shirts, confesses that his greatest mistake was moving from writing ads to management. The creative people should write the ads, he says, and let the people who aren’t any good with clients run the company. And Mr. Lois, whose heavy Bronx accent turns every “th” into a “d,” talks about both the Esquire covers and his ads.

“The name of the game” is to “nail somebody,” he says. “And if it’s a punch in the mouth, great. That’s advertising, baby.”
221 2008-07-08 Unitaid, the international agency created in 2006 to buy medicine to counter AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, has taken the first step toward establishing a mechanism to deal with a vexing problem of drugs so expensive they are out of reach for most poor people.

The agency is endorsing the creation of a panel of experts to explore the feasibility of a “patent pool.” In theory, the pool would hold licenses on patented medicines, which it could use to have them made at lower costs for poor countries. Initially, it would focus on drugs for infants with AIDS and for adult patients who have developed resistance to first-line drugs.

While patents have expired on most first-line AIDS drugs and they are available cheaply from generic makers, patents still exist on many second-line and pediatric medicines. Only a tiny fraction of people on AIDS drugs in poor countries get the newer drugs.

Drug patents can be complex and may have multiple holders, including universities and governments who sub-licensed aspects of their research in return for royalties. Getting those rights may involve complex negotiations.

The panel would initially have only five experts in patent law and a budget of less than $2 million. “The panel might ask for licenses on second-generation drugs,” said James Love, a longtime advocate for lower drug prices. “The patent-holders will either say yes or no — but if they say no, it might raise some eyebrows.”

Unitaid was created in 2006 by Brazil, Britain, Chile, France, Norway and other countries — not including the United States. It is financed by a tax on airline tickets.
222 2008-07-08 Wall Street lost more ground in volatile trading Monday as investors recoiled at a cautious economic outlook from a Federal Reserve official and the possibility of more financial troubles at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

The market found only slight solace in retreating oil prices.

Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech that the financial markets remained fragile and that it would take time for conditions to improve. “My expectation is that market functioning will improve markedly by 2009,” she said. “But things could get worse before they get better.”

The comments added to concerns raised in a note by Lehman Brothers analysts that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may need to raise more capital as the credit crisis continues. Worries about the ailing financial sector deflated a stock rally early in the day that had been fueled by a $4-a-barrel pullback in oil prices.

The market managed, however, to rebound from its lows of the day, when the Dow Jones industrial average sank to its worst level since mid-August of 2006. Some investors bought back into the market to take advantage of the low prices.

“The market is so skittish and so scared that half the people believe that this is just another leg of the down market and the other half believes that we’re forming a bottom,” said Frank Ingarra, assistant portfolio manager at Hennessy Funds.
223 2008-07-08 Most of the main contenders for the overall victory finished in a group that crossed the line 2:03 after the winner. But two hopefuls — Denis Menchov of Rabobank and Riccardo Ricco of Saunier Duval — were caught in the wrong place and finished in a second group of riders, 2:41 behind the stage winner.

“Obviously this is great for France,” Dumoulin said. “It proves we are not as bad as it is said. We know how to train.”

Dumoulin noted that before this year’s race, the Tour director, Christian Prudhomme, said this would be “a Tour for those who attempt things.”

Dumoulin said: “That’s exactly what I did, and it paid off.”

Dumoulin finished the stage in 5 hours 5 minutes 27 seconds, for an average speed of just over 25 miles per hour. Though the course was the flattest of the three stages so far, it was also the slowest because of the wind and the rain.

Feillu, who won the Tour of Britain last year, started the day 18 seconds behind the overall leader, Alejandro Valverde. So he knew early on that he was destined for the yellow jersey if the breakaway could keep that much of a gap over the field at the finish line.

“I had the belief I could do it all day long,” he said after the race.

He said that he and his breakaway companions made a point of not riding too fast at the beginning. Although they gained a 15-minute lead over the main field at one point, not unusual for a breakaway on a flat stage, they worked well together until the jostling to be first across the finish line began with a little more than a mile to go.

As the main field gave chase, riders from the Quick Step team revved up the pace with roughly 12 miles to go, hoping to catch the breakaway and set up the finish for its sprinter, Gert Steegmans.

But the wind, which was steadily blowing at more than 20 m.p.h. with higher gusts, played havoc with the group.

The field was split after Quick Step’s acceleration and a crash that sent Ángel Gómez of the Saunier Duval team to the hospital. Menchov and Ricco were not riding close enough to the front to stay with the first group.

Although the Rabobank and Saunier Duval teams worked fiercely at the front of the second group to bring it back into contact with the peloton, the group never came closer than about 30 seconds back.

There could well be another shakeup in the overall standings Tuesday, when the riders set off on the first of two individual time trials, a relatively flat 18.3-mile route that begins and ends in the town of Cholet.
224 2008-07-08 “It is beautiful,” said Youssef Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Company. “Icahn is doing the dirty work, and they don’t need to commit to anything until they feel that the board is ready to deal. They are letting the prey come to them instead of chasing it.”

The new informal alliance between Mr. Icahn and Microsoft came together after a series of conversations between Mr. Icahn and Steven A. Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, during the last week, Mr. Icahn said in a letter to Yahoo shareholders.

“Steve made it abundantly clear that, due to his experiences with Yahoo during the past several months, he cannot negotiate any transaction with the current board,” Mr. Icahn wrote.

He later added: “However, Steve made it clear to me that if a new board were elected, he would be interested in discussing a major transaction with Yahoo,” like the purchase of the search unit or the whole company.

In an apparently coordinated statement, Microsoft confirmed its interest in negotiating with a new board, but said it was not ready to disclose publicly the specific terms of any transaction. In an interview, Mr. Icahn said he understood Microsoft’s interest in replacing the board.

“If you’re going to put up $45 billion, you certainly can’t be blamed for wanting to have faith in the stewardship of the company, especially if you have to wait a year to buy it,” he said, referring to the time it would take to get regulatory approval for the deal. “I believe Ballmer wants to buy it one way or the other.”

For its part, Yahoo sought to cast doubt on Microsoft’s commitment to acquire the company and suggested it would be risky for shareholders to endorse Mr. Icahn’s slate of directors without such a commitment.

“If Microsoft and Mr. Ballmer really want to purchase Yahoo, we again invite them to make a proposal immediately,” Yahoo said in a statement. “And if Mr. Icahn has an actual plan for Yahoo beyond hoping that Microsoft might actually consummate a deal which they have repeatedly walked away from, we would be very interested in hearing it.”

Microsoft withdrew its offer to buy Yahoo outright on May 3 after Yahoo executives said they would be willing to sell the company for $37 a share. Microsoft had offered $33 a share, or about $47.5 billion.

Two weeks later, Microsoft said it was interested in buying Yahoo’s search business, but the company has said time and again that it was no longer interested in buying all of Yahoo, not even for $33 a share.

Yahoo has said that selling its search business alone would not be in the best interest of shareholders. On June 12, it said talks with Microsoft had ended, and it signed an alternative search advertising partnership with its No. 1 rival, Google. Yahoo could withdraw from the partnership if it pays a breakup fee.

It is too early to handicap the outcome of Mr. Icahn’s proxy fight, as most major Yahoo shareholders have yet to say whether they will support him. Several large shareholders have said recently that they favored a deal with Microsoft, and they have voiced their anger at Yahoo’s management for its inability to consummate a merger.

Yet many have been unwilling publicly to endorse Mr. Icahn, who, they fear, lacks a specific plan, other than hoping to sell the company to Microsoft.

Some analysts said Microsoft’s statement Monday did little to change that calculus. But some Yahoo shareholders said they thought Mr. Icahn would be more effective in leading Yahoo than the current management, whether or not he succeeds in selling the company or its search business to Microsoft.

“If Microsoft comes back with a deal that is completely unattractive, we’d be back to where we are today,” said Mark Nelson, a partner at Mithras Capital, a private fund that owns about 1.7 million shares of Yahoo. “But the difference is that Icahn would be more aggressive in dealing with where Yahoo goes next.”

About 10 percent of the company’s shares were owned by Yahoo directors and executive officers as of May 7, according to a regulatory filing. Most of those were held by its co-founders, David Filo, with a 5.79 percent stake, and Jerry Yang, the chief executive, with a 3.9 percent stake.

Mr. Icahn owned about 59 million shares, or more than 4 percent, according to a June 6 filing. Mr. Icahn paid about $25 a share, on average. After Microsoft’s announcement Monday, shares of Yahoo rose $2.56, or nearly 12 percent, to $23.91.

Yahoo’s largest shareholder is Capital Research and Management Company, the giant investment firm, which owns about 16 percent of the shares. Its ownership of Yahoo is divided between two units, Capital World Investors, with a 9.8 percent stake, and Capital Research Global Investors, with 6.2 percent.

Gordon Crawford, a portfolio manager with Capital Research Global, has been openly critical of Yahoo’s management but his company has not publicly endorsed Mr. Icahn. Managers at Capital World have not spoken publicly about the proxy fight, but privately they have been far more supportive of Yahoo’s management and board, according to two people familiar with their views who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss them.

A spokesman for Capital Research and Management declined to comment Monday.

Keith Gottfried, a partner in the shareholder activism practice of the law firm Blank Rome, said the downturn in the stock market could influence many fund managers to vote their shares for Mr. Icahn in the hope that he could complete a deal with Microsoft.

“I wouldn’t underestimate the effect that the bear market has,” Mr. Gottfried said. “Any opportunity that fund managers have to lessen the losses that they are likely to show in other parts of their portfolio might make them more willing to support a transaction.”
225 2008-07-08 A 55-year-old man who smokes is as likely to die in the next 10 years as a 65-year-old who has never smoked. A 35-year-old woman is twice as likely to die in an accident as she is to die of breast cancer in the next 10 years.

And after 75, heart disease is the biggest killer of smokers and nonsmokers alike, though lung cancer and respiratory disease remain huge risks for smokers.

New risk charts in a paper last month in The Journal of the National Cancer Institute provide a broader perspective than most of the risk calculators available on the Internet, because they cover the risks for 10 causes of death and for all causes combined, while differentiating by age and among smokers, nonsmokers and former smokers.

At first glance, it may appear that smokers and nonsmokers die of heart disease at the same rate, but they do not. A 35-year-old smoker is seven times as likely to die of heart disease as a nonsmoker the same age. But as smokers age and as some survive the more common smokers’ diseases, the numbers begin to converge. By 75, their rate of death from heart disease is almost, but still not quite, the same.

“Often, numbers are presented as lifetime statistics, which make the risk look too large, or as one-year statistics, which make the risk look too small,” said Dr. Lisa M. Schwartz, a co-author of the paper and an associate professor of medicine at Dartmouth. “These charts provide the information you need to understand a risk, and whether to consider taking some action to reduce it. How big is my risk? And how does this risk compare to others?”
226 2008-07-08 Incandescent light bulbs are on the way out by 2012, thanks to Congress, meaning for now at least that compact fluorescent lamps are on the rise. The spiral-shaped tubes last longer and use much less electricity than conventional bulbs, both good things. But they contain small amounts of the neurotoxin mercury, a bad thing.

Compact fluorescents are supposed to be recycled so that the mercury (which is in vapor form) can be dealt with properly. But the tubes do occasionally crack or break, and the recycling rate is currently low, so mercury could be released in homes or elsewhere, posing a small risk to children.

Robert H. Hurt, an engineering professor at Brown University, along with a student, Natalie C. Johnson, and others, set out to see what could be done to reduce the risk. They report in Environmental Science and Technology that they have developed a material that can capture the mercury released from a broken tube.

The researchers experimented with tiny particles of sulfur, copper, nickel and other elements to see how well mercury was absorbed onto them. Selenium, in particular, has a well-known affinity for mercury, and the researchers found that particles of it with a size from about 10 to 600 nanometers were capable of binding with almost all of the mercury from a lamp.

The researchers say this “nanoselenium,” impregnated in cloth, could be used in packaging for new lamps (in case of breakage during shipment) or for cleaning up a broken lamp in the home. Plastic bags used to hold recycled compact fluorescents could also be treated with the material.
227 2008-07-08 A longtime foe of pet projects known as earmarks, Mr. McCain said he would stop such spending. The Bush White House says earmarks this year total $17 billion, a comparatively small share of a $2.9 trillion budget.

Mr. McCain proposed a one-year freeze in most domestic spending subject to annual appropriations, “to allow for a comprehensive review.” This proposal would affect education, scientific research, law enforcement and scores of other programs.

Mr. Bush’s battles with Congress suggest it would be extremely difficult for Mr. McCain to win approval for such a freeze.

Mr. McCain said he was counting on “rapid economic growth” to help reduce the deficit. While a growing economy generates additional revenue, several of Mr. McCain’s tax proposals would be costly, experts said.

He would “phase out and eliminate” a provision of the tax code known as the alternative minimum tax, which has ensnared a growing number of middle-class Americans in recent years.

By his own account, repealing this tax “will save middle-class families nearly $60 billion in a single year.” That is $60 billion that would presumably not be available to the Treasury.

Mr. McCain also wants to extend many of the Bush tax cuts, scheduled to expire by Jan. 1, 2011. That could reduce tax collections below the levels assumed under current law, and it could widen the deficit, many economists said.

In January, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that extending the Bush tax cuts would cost more than $700 billion in the next five years.

Since January, the economy has been weaker than expected, making the goal of a balanced budget more difficult to achieve. The budget deficit in the current fiscal year is running much higher than in the previous year.

Other McCain proposals, like doubling the personal tax exemption for dependents and cutting the corporate income tax rate, would also reduce revenues, economists said.

C. Eugene Steuerle of the Urban Institute, who worked in the Reagan administration, said Mr. McCain “may well be committed to balancing the budget in five years, but does not tell you how he would reach that goal.”

J. Bradford DeLong, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, who worked at the Treasury under President Bill Clinton, said, “Senator McCain and his advisers want to claim they will balance the budget by 2013, but they have given us no clue and no plan to meet all the commitments he has made and still get there.”

On the other hand, history shows the deficit sometimes shrinks faster than experts expect.

That happened in 1998 in the Clinton administration, when the government ran a surplus for the first time in nearly three decades. And Mr. Bush cut the deficit in half faster than he or many fiscal experts had predicted.
228 2008-07-08 MIKE MURPHY He has been in Mr. McCain’s orbit since he ran for president in 2000; it seems safe to say that few people understand Mr. McCain as well as Mr. Murphy does. He has on several occasions offered Mr. McCain blunt advice about how to fix his campaign. Mr. McCain has told two friends in recent weeks that that he would like Mr. Murphy as his senior strategist, and before the most recent shake-up that put Mr. Schmidt in charge, Mr. Murphy told at least one associate that he was interested in coming back.

It is not clear how Mr. Schmidt, among others, would react to that. Mr. Murphy and Mr. Schmidt had their differences when they worked together for the re-election of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, though by all accounts, those are mild compared with Mr. Murphy’s differences with other people in the various factions at Mr. McCain’s headquarters.

Mr. Schmidt did not return an e-mail message seeking comment. Mr. Murphy, while declining to comment about the possibility of his joining the McCain campaign, said that he admired Mr. Schmidt and that there were no differences between them.

“Steve Schmidt has been a friend of mine since I originally helped recruit him into the Arnold world back in 2005,” Mr. Murphy said. “Steve and I are friends, and we get along fine.”

One other potential hindrance to Mr. Murphy coming in: He is a founder of DC Navigators, a lobbying firm whose clients include insurance firms and the Indian Gaming Association, to name a few. Mr. McCain said he did not want any working lobbyists in his campaign. Mr. Murphy said his role at the firm was not as a lobbyist. “I’ve never been registered in my life,” he said. “I told my partners months ago that if I did McCain, I’d leave the firm.”

RICK DAVIS Mr. Davis is nothing if not a survivor. He managed to emerge from the staff wars of the McCain campaign last year as the manager — escaping blame as the campaign collapsed under the weight of its debt and was forced to lay off most of his staff. Mr. Davis without question deserves some credit for helping to steer Mr. McCain from the brink of withdrawal to securing the Republican nomination. Yet his management (and survival) skills do not necessarily translate into what it takes to run against a candidate like Senator Barack Obama; Mr. Davis came under fire as Mr. McCain’s campaign became characterized by missteps and squandered opportunities. He lost power after Mr. Schmidt went to Mr. McCain and warned him that he needed to make changes in his operation, or accept the fact that he is going to lose.

KARL ROVE You thought we were going to write a story about the internal dynamics of a Republican presidential campaign without mentioning Mr. Rove? The chief strategist for Mr. Bush in 2000 and 2004, Mr. Rove is not directly involved in the McCain campaign, but his presence there can be seen in the number of his protégés who now hold central roles there. Mr. Schmidt tops that list; coming in a very close second is Nicolle Wallace, who was communications director for Mr. Bush in 2004 and in the White House.

All of this intrigue breeds discouragement among even those former McCain associates who do not dispute the notion that voters now might be getting an early glimpse of the messy, unstructured way in which a McCain White House might be managed. They are hard-pressed to explain why Mr. McCain tolerates this — or encourages this — or why he has trouble cutting ties with people who have not served him well over the years.

“I can’t answer the why,” said John Weaver, who was one of Mr. McCain’s closest advisers before being forced out in a shake-up last year. “It is just that way and for his own sake, he needs to finally, firmly decide where he wants to take this campaign.”
229 2008-07-08 JERONIMO--Bob, NYC, on July 3. Art director, sculptor, proud member of United Scenic Artists Local 829. This bright, warm, funny man is deeply missed by his wife, Ellen, family and friends....
230 2008-07-08 WEISS--Nathan Norman, age 85, on July 3, 2008 after a long illness; treasured husband of Golda Weiss, a key executive in the motion picture industry in the 1960s and 70s; respected colleague and friend of filmakers Joseph Mankiewicz, David Lean, G...
231 2008-07-08 TAKING THE HELMMarcus W. Brauchli, below, a former top editor of The Wall Street Journal, will be the next executive editor of The Washington Post, a paper with declining ad revenue that is working to merge its print and online news operations.   ...
232 2008-07-08 Photo of Veronica Shear and dog near Valentino Pier in Red Hook, Brooklyn...
233 2008-07-08 LEVISS--Rita (Ricque), Stanford, CT. Passed away on July 5, 2008 at the age of 94. Pre-deceased by husband Jules, mother of Bernard (Bonnie) and Richard (Ellen), grandmother to Beth Gardner (Perry) and Ted, greatgrandmother to Sadie. Contact Leo P...
234 2008-07-09 The closing line of John McCain's latest ad was also used in a spot for the Conservative Party of Margaret Thatcher in the late 1970s....
235 2008-07-09 The Senate Commerce Committee heard testimony from regulators and Internet companies Wednesday about whether Congress needs to set some ground rules for online advertising and privacy....
236 2008-07-09 Steve & Barry's, the purveyor of ultra-low-cost brands by the likes of Sarah Jessica Parker and Stephon Marbury, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Wednesday, the latest retailer to fall victim to the slumping economy. In a filing with the United ...
237 2008-07-09 And that's what's so strange about Suzuki: the company builds insanely powerful motorcycles and faint-hearted subcompacts....
238 2008-07-09 As if "Mad Men" weren't enough, the advertising industry can now entertain itself with the latest episode in what has become an international takeover feud. Not long after WPP Group, a British advertising giant, announced a hostile bid for Taylor ...
239 2008-07-09 The Internet Advertising Bureau is trying to rally small firms to block new regulations on online advertising. Meanwhile, Microsoft criticizes the Google-Yahoo ad partnership ahead of a Senate hearing Tuesday on the deal....
240 2008-07-09 SAC Capital Management has turned off the power on its electricity trading operations, as its four-member team has left the giant hedge fund, according to SparkSpread.com. The four traders joined the Greenwich, Conn. fund, run by Steven A. Cohen, ...
241 2008-07-09 We're going to take a brief break from mogul coverage in Sun Valley to respond to an outpouring of e-mails and blog posts about my DealBook column on Tuesday about the proliferation of rumor-mongering and its dangerous effects on the market. I arg...
242 2008-07-09 High fuel prices are leading people to buy smaller, more eco-friendly cars, but what are they doing to the airline industry, a faster-growing source of greenhouse gas emissions? For years, airlines have countered pressure from environmentalists wi...
243 2008-07-09 Fox Business announced that the Wall Street Journal personal technology columnist Walt Mossberg would be a regular contributor....
244 2008-07-09 Steve & Barry's, the clothing chain that tried to undercut competitors by selling celebrity fashion and shoes for less than $10, was preparing to file for bankruptcy protection late Tuesday in the latest blow to shopping malls battered by the econ...
245 2008-07-09 An important source of profits for private equity groups in Europe has been cut off due to the credit crunch by eliminating the option to add new debt to companies they own solely to pay themselves a dividend, The Financial Times reported. Accordi...
246 2008-07-09 Carl C. Icahn would have more support in his proxy battle against Yahoo if he pledged not to sell the company for less than $33 a share, Legg Mason portfolio manager Bill Miller said on Tuesday. Miller's Legg Mason Capital Management is the third-...
247 2008-07-09 Four months after embarking on a search for directors with financial expertise, Citigroup is close to announcing that the dean of the Harvard Business School will join its board, The New York Times reported citing several people briefed on the sea...
248 2008-07-09 Federal prosecutors are investigating whether two former Credit Suisse brokers lied to investors about how they placed their money into short-term securities, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The investigat...
249 2008-07-09 Hedge funds have suffered their worst first-half since at least 1990 as the credit crunch took a heavy toll on some managers, MarketWatch reported citing data compiled by industry tracker Hedge Fund Research. HFR's hedge fund index fell 0.68 perce...
250 2008-07-09 Bradford & Bingley shareholders and the biggest British banks are planning to buy most of the 400 million pounds ($789 million) of stock that Bradford & Bingley will sell to prevent a second failure in the country's financial industry. Lloyds TSB ...
251 2008-07-09 Hong Kong's High Court has dismissed a lawsuit by Winnie Ho challenging the legality of the $493 million initial public offering of her brother's SJM Holdings, Bloomerg News reported. As reported on Tuesday, Stanley Ho, SJM´s founder, had been ch...
252 2008-07-09 Biggest greenhouse-gas emitters fail to agree on long-term goal for cuts....
253 2008-07-09 Australian business confidence fell in June to its lowest level since the 9/11 attacks in the United States as domestic demand slowed and costs continued to rise, according to a survey of companies. National Australia Bank’s monthly business index predicted a marked slowdown in Australia’s economic growth, with business confidence falling to minus 9 points from minus 4 in May. Overall business conditions fell 7 points from May to zero — also the lowest since 2001, and 20 points lower than the peak in October 2007. “Conditions across the nonfarm business sector as a whole deteriorated unexpectedly and significantly in June,” Jeff Oughton, head of Australian economics at the bank, said in the report. “This slowdown in conditions appears to have further to run.”
254 2008-07-09 University of Iowa officials more than tripled their estimated cost for flood damage at the campus, with the tab expected to exceed $231 million. The estimate, made at the request of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is a best guess but could go higher, said Steve Parrott, a university spokesman. Previous estimates from the university president, Sally Mason, had put costs around $75 million, though university officials had said they expected the figure to rise. The damage was caused by the Iowa River, one of several that topped their banks in record flooding in June.
255 2008-07-09 A day after India’s prime minister, Manmohan Singh, spoke confidently of having amassed sufficient political backing to complete a landmark nuclear accord with the United States, the Communist parties that have been part of his parliamentary majority for four years said they were withdrawing support because of the proposed deal. The agreement would allow India access to nuclear fuel and technology on the world market. Mr. Singh’s government appears able to survive the loss of the Communists’ support because of a deal it reached last week with the Samajwadi Party.
256 2008-07-09 UNITED NATIONS — Iran, sharpening its image contest with Israel amid the standoff over Iran’s nuclear program, has resurrected questions about the fate of four of its citizens who disappeared in Beirut in 1982 while Israeli forces occupied the city.

Officials in the office of the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said Tuesday that a letter the Iranian Mission released publicly on Monday, asking him to intervene to determine the men’s fate, had yet to arrive. In it Iran accuses Israel of holding the Iranians — two diplomats, their driver and a journalist — as prisoners for 26 years, a charge the Israelis dismiss.

Israel has long drawn attention to its missing soldiers in Lebanon, so analysts believe that Tehran wants to show that it, too, has endured losses.

“It is an attempt to get back at Israel and get some publicity points, to put Israel on the defensive at a time when they think that Israel might be considering attacking them,” said Abbas Milani, director of Stanford University’s Iranian studies program.

Iran has grown bolder in recent months in highlighting its close ties with Hezbollah, to serve as a kind of warning that forces capable of retaliating against Israel sit right beyond its northern border. Indeed, Hezbollah’s use of current prisoner negotiations to focus attention on four Iranians missing for so long, instead of on the many Lebanese and Palestinian prisoners confirmed in Israeli custody, underscores the close bond between the organization and Iran, diplomats and analysts noted.
257 2008-07-09 If the Rooney family sells the Pittsburgh Steelers, the N.F.L. would still have a few ownership families whose league roots date to the 1920s and ’30s. The McCaskeys, George Halas’s descendants, own the Chicago Bears. The Mara family owns half of the Giants, and the Arizona Cardinals have been owned by the Bidwills for 76 years.

“I knew the Steelers were going to be sold someday, but I didn’t know it would be so soon,” Art Modell, who owned the Cleveland Browns-turned-Baltimore Ravens from 1961 to 2004, said Tuesday. “I didn’t think there was any alternative, not with four or five diverse ownership interests. If the divisions are sharp, this could be tough to reconcile.”

Dan Rooney, the eldest of five sons of the Steelers’ patriarch, Art Sr., wants to buy out his brothers and cousins. But the team could be sold to an outsider like Stanley Druckenmiller, a billionaire financier whose firm, Duquesne Capital Management, is based in Pittsburgh, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.

Dan Rooney’s brothers want to focus on racetracks and other family businesses, but he wants to keep the team, which is the legacy of his father. Art Rooney Sr. bought the team in 1933 and sold it in 1941, but shortly after regained control of it.

“Sometimes you get to the point where your minority partners become a burden and you have to do something about it,” said Modell, who racked up enormous debt in Cleveland, moved the franchise to Baltimore in 1996, sold 49 percent of the team to Steve Bisciotti four years later for $275 million and the rest in 2004 for $325 million. He retains a 1 percent share of the team “as a rooting interest.”

Modell’s motivation to sell the Ravens differed from what prompted Tim Mara and Mara’s mother and sister to sell half of the Giants to Bob Tisch in 1991 for $75 million. Tim and his uncle Wellington Mara had had disagreements for years, so Tim shed his part of the team weeks after the Giants won their second Super Bowl in 1991. A handful of other N.F.L. teams have not changed hands for several decades, including the Buffalo Bills, the Kansas City Chiefs (born as the Dallas Texans) and the Tennessee Titans (originally the Houston Oilers), all among the initial American Football League franchises from 1960 that later merged with the N.F.L.; the Detroit Lions, which William Clay Ford bought in 1963; and the Cincinnati Bengals, a 1968 expansion team founded by the legendary coach Paul Brown and currently owned by his son, Mike.
258 2008-07-09 Four months after embarking on a search for directors with financial expertise, Citigroup is close to announcing that the dean of the Harvard Business School will join its board, according to several people briefed on the search.

Jay O. Light, an expert in asset and risk management who has led the business school since 2005, is being recruited to fill one of at least three seats expected to be vacated in the coming months.

Citigroup’s directors have been under siege after overseeing more than $40 billion in write-offs and a share price that has fallen more than 66 percent in the last year. Mr. Light’s strong background could help the board navigate through the mess.

No decision has been made, and spokesmen for Citigroup and Mr. Light declined to comment.

Such a prominent appointment would be an important step as Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup’s chief executive, tries to reshape the board and turn around the troubled bank. It also could pave the way for other directors to more gracefully leave the board, including C. Michael Armstrong, a longtime director who has been chairman of Citigroup’s risk and audit committee since 2004. He is expected to step down from that seat when the board changes committee heads this summer as part of a normal rotation.

Although Citigroup has not named a successor to Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Light’s credentials make him a logical candidate to serve on or lead that committee.

Besides Mr. Light, Citigroup’s board is looking to recruit at least two other directors, zeroing in on those with “expertise in finance and investments.” None of Citigroup’s 10 independent directors have extensive Wall Street résumés, and only one, added recently, was a former finance chief.
259 2008-07-09 Alcoa, the aluminum producer, reported second-quarter profit that topped analyst estimates as the company raised prices. The shares gained in after-hours trading.

Alcoa is the first company in the Dow Jones industrial average to report results for the quarter through June. Earnings at Dow Jones companies probably declined an average of 10 percent from the same period a year earlier, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

Klaus Kleinfeld, who took over as chief executive in May, has raised prices to help make up for rising energy expenses, which account for about a third of the cost of producing aluminum. Alcoa sold aluminum for an average $3,058 a ton in the quarter, about 6.2 percent higher than a year earlier.

Net income for the quarter fell to $546 million, or 66 cents a share, from $715 million, or 81 cents, a year earlier, Alcoa said. Sales fell 5.5 percent to $7.62 billion after the company sold its packaging unit.

Excluding a charge of 5 cents a share because of lost production at a refinery in Australia and a smelter in Texas, profit was 71 cents a share, topping the 65-cent average estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
260 2008-07-09 The company ran into a cash squeeze after defaulting on a loan made in March by the commercial lending unit of General Electric, and could not secure other financing, according to people close to the discussions. The company will probably begin to close some of its approximately 270 stores, and could be forced into a full liquidation. The company was trying to arrange bankruptcy financing on Tuesday, according to people briefed on the talks.

Steve Shore and Barry Prevor, childhood friends on Long Island who founded the chain in 1985, have approached other retailers about acquiring the company or its assets. TA Associates, a private equity firm, owns a minority share in the company, which is based in Port Washington.

Discussions with Sears were said to be continuing Tuesday, including the prospect of selling Steve & Barry’s brands at Kmart. Kim Freely, a spokeswoman for Sears, declined to comment.

“Steve & Barry’s merchandise might actually excite the Kmart customer, but it could be very complicated to do this without paying G.E. a lot of money,” said Howard Davidowitz, the chairman of Davidowitz & Associates, a retail consulting and investment banking firm. He contrasted the situation to the bargain-priced acquisition of the struggling Fortunoff chain by the owner of Lord & Taylor in March. Steve & Barry’s does not own the celebrity brands, but licenses their names, so Ms. Parker and others will retain some control.

“We are surprised and disappointed that this situation has developed,” said Ira Schreck, a lawyer representing Ms. Parker. “We are surprised because our understanding, based on the accounting statements we see, was that sales have been very, very strong.”

In the last few years, several mall landlords aggressively pursued leases with Steve & Barry’s, offering sweetheart rents and other inducements. The company opened more than 200 stores in the last four years.

Mr. Shore and Mr. Prevor had begun reinventing their business about two years ago, expanding from their roots selling cheap collegiate apparel by introducing celebrity brands and more fashionable items for women, at prices lower than Wal-Mart.

Mr. Marbury, a basketball star, lent his name to shoes initially priced at $14.98, which were marketed as an alternative to other players’ sneakers selling for more than $100. Last year, Ms. Parker’s Bitten collection was introduced, and the inexpensive jean jackets and batik print cotton dresses were given up to half the floor space in Steve & Barry’s stores.

While the strategy brought hordes of customers, it also crimped operating margins, as the celebrities had to be paid a licensing fee or a portion of sales. As the retail market softened and consumers reduced spending, the company took a risk by lowering prices further, to $8.98, from $14.98. Steve & Barry’s was selling some items at a loss, hoping to bolster sales of products with higher margins, like T-shirts.

But the cost of maintaining stores was bound to rise because the landlords were paying the company lease incentives, usually one-time payments.

“When you get a free lunch, normally you buy dinner,” Mr. Davidowitz said. “They were getting paid millions to take those spaces, but the problem with those payments is that they were not sustainable. They took stores that no one else wanted, and I don’t think that was necessarily a brilliant paradigm.”
261 2008-07-09 Democratic leaders in the Senate also are not ready to embrace the idea of a bipartisan compromise on energy legislation, in part out of concern about adopting a position at odds with their expected presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois.

Mr. Obama, who has called for higher mileage standards and investments in alternative energy, so far has espoused the traditional Democratic view that domestic drilling is not the answer to high prices — a view he affirmed in a new television advertisement that began running Tuesday in four battleground states.

“This notion that somehow there’s this acre of off-shore that George W. Bush is holding back, that if Congress would just let him sign the executive order that would produce the oil to bring down gas prices,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. “Doesn’t that sound like a little bit of fantasy land?”

But with the public in an uproar over the cost of gasoline and fuel oil, many lawmakers in the House and Senate said Congress, with approval ratings at new lows, cannot stand by and simply trade accusations over who is responsible.

Neither Republicans nor Democrats are being spared in the minds of voters, one said. “They blame ‘the government,’ ” said Ms. Collins, who noted that many Maine residents were panicked at the possibility of paying $5,000 to heat their homes this winter.

She and other lawmakers said they could see the contours of a deal that included new incentives for renewable fuels, more freedom for drilling in waters off states that sanction the drilling and a potential crackdown on speculation in the oil-futures market.

In both parties, there was a notable shift in tone.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, has made a refrain in recent weeks of saying, “We cannot drill our way out of this problem.” But he opened his news conference on Tuesday with a different approach: “Let’s begin the discussion here by saying, Democrats support domestic production.”

He also hinted at a potential element of compromise legislation: that any oil produced from wider access to federal lands off shore be reserved for domestic use and barred from export. At the same time, he noted that Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican presidential candidate, had opposed similar restrictions in the past.

There was no indication from Mr. Reid or other lawmakers that a deal was imminent. And lawmakers acknowledged that none of the proposals under consideration would lower gasoline prices any time soon.

Republicans continued their call for expanded oil drilling, while emphasizing their willingness to compromise.

“When I was in Texas this last week, this is the No. 1 issue on people’s minds,” Senator John Cornyn said. “When people fill up their trucks or S.U.V.’s in Texas and pay over $100 to fill up their vehicle, it gets their attention, and they are looking to Congress to frankly get out of the way and allow America to develop more of its own natural resources as we take other measures to conserve energy and become more efficient.”

At the same news conference, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said: “I don’t think that solar and renewables are any more of an answer tomorrow than opening up more areas for exploration would be,” Mr. Martinez said. “All of these are long-term solutions.”

He added, “In my way of thinking, the most immediate thing we could do to impact prices is consume less.”

In the House, Democratic leaders affirmed their view that oil companies were not exploring all the leases they held now and said they did not want to be seen as hitting a political panic button.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi sought Tuesday to put pressure on President Bush, calling on him to release “a small portion” of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to boost supply and cut price. Republicans said the call for more oil bolstered their argument for domestic drilling.

Should an energy measure begin to take shape, lawmakers have a variety of their own ideas to offer. Mr. Casey, the Pennsylvania senator, is proposing a bill that would subsidize the cost of fuel for volunteer firefighters responding to emergencies. Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, has resurrected the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit.

Virtually every lawmaker has stories to tell of constituents hurt by fuel costs. Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, has been telling colleagues about John Grau, a cattle farmer he met last month, the day after his home in Soldier, Kan., was destroyed by a tornado.

Mr. Grau told the senator that he was less worried about rebuilding, which he could afford, than about the pain of high gasoline prices. “He was concerned about the people who worked for him,” an aide to the senator said. “He said the gas prices were really a hardship for them.”
262 2008-07-09 Mike Murphy, Senator John McCain’s longtime adviser and friend who had been rumored to be joining the McCain campaign as a chief strategist, said Tuesday that he would not be doing so.

In an interview, Mr. Murphy said that the flurry of speculation about a return to Mr. McCain’s circle — at a time when the McCain camp was showing new signs of internal strife — was endangering the candidacy of his friend and that he wanted to put an end to it. “I’m not expecting to join his campaign,” he said of Mr. McCain, the likely Republican presidential nominee. “I’m going to kill and end all this stuff.”

Mr. Murphy added: “I think this staff speculation is not helpful to the campaign. I don’t want to be controversial, and I don’t want to be distracting from the senator’s message.”

Mr. Murphy, Mr. McCain’s strategist in the 2000 presidential race, is going to take a position as a commentator on MSNBC.

The McCain campaign declined to comment.

For all the speculation, it was hardly clear that there would be a position in the campaign for Mr. Murphy. Several McCain advisers said they would oppose Mr. Murphy’s return, noting his long history of animosity with some members of the senator’s current inner circle. And, they said, the last thing Mr. McCain needed now was another round of articles suggesting that his campaign was in turmoil.

Still, Mr. Murphy has a long personal history with Mr. McCain, and continues to offer him advice; it would not have been out of character for the senator to ask him to join the campaign if Mr. McCain thought it would help him in his battle with Senator Barack Obama, the likely Democratic nominee.

The rumors about Mr. Murphy’s return swirled through Republican circles after Mr. McCain put Steve Schmidt in charge of most major functions of the campaign, including communications, strategy and fund-raising, stripping those responsibilities from Rick Davis, the campaign manager. Several advisers said Mr. Schmidt was now the de facto leader of the campaign.
263 2008-07-09 This 60-second commercial for Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, began running on stations in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday and is expected to be included in Mr. McCain’s regular advertising rotation on television stations in more than a dozen swing states, and on national cable networks.

THE SCRIPT A male announcer says, “It was a time of uncertainty, hope and change, the summer of love. Half a world away, another kind of love, of country: John McCain, shot down, bayoneted, tortured. Offered early release, he said, ‘No.’ He’d sworn an oath. Home, he turned to public service. His philosophy: Before party, polls and self, America. A maverick. John McCain tackled campaign reform, military reform, spending reform. He took on presidents, partisans and popular opinion. He believes our world is dangerous, our economy in shambles. John McCain doesn’t always tell us what we hope to hear. Beautiful words will not make our lives better. But a man who has always put his country and her people before self, before politics, can. Don’t hope for a better life, vote for one. McCain.” Mr. McCain says, “I’m John McCain, and I approve this message.”

ON THE SCREEN The spot opens with grainy moving images of student protesters marching; a skinny hippie in an open vest and no shirt kissing a woman he is carrying in his arms at what appears to be the site of the Woodstock festival. It moves on to show images of the war in Vietnam as seen through the eyes of Mr. McCain: An airplane making a bombing run; a much younger Mr. McCain in his flight suit; a Vietnamese woman holding a rifle as she stands above the wreckage of an American fighter jet; Mr. McCain on a hospital cot during his captivity; Mr. McCain saluting upon his return to the United States. Progressing through Mr. McCain’s life, the commercial goes on to show him shaking hands with Nancy Reagan before moving to more current images of Mr. McCain: shaking hands with a voter; standing in front of a desert mountain; speaking before an American flag; riding on his campaign bus; speaking at a podium. The spot ends with a split screen of Mr. McCain then and now, and then there is an on-screen autograph from the candidate.

ACCURACY Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, at whom this spot takes veiled swipes, was turning 6 years old during the “summer of love,” and cannot be counted as among those who protested or indulged while Mr. McCain suffered (unless playing with building blocks counts). Mr. McCain’s military service and the torture he endured in Vietnam are well established. Mr. McCain did indeed buck his party’s leadership in helping to draft new campaign finance regulations, though he and his supporters are now being accused of exploiting loopholes to compete with Mr. Obama, who has opted out of the campaign finance system. His moves against Congressional earmarks and wasteful government spending are well known. But Mr. McCain has more recently found new areas of agreement with President Bush and other party leaders, like pledging to make permanent the tax cuts he twice voted against and lifting a ban against offshore drilling that he once supported.

SCORECARD This commercial is better produced than Mr. McCain’s previous general election commercials. It is direct in its effort to neutralize Mr. Obama’s widely acknowledged speaking skills by portraying his soaring oratory as lacking real substance. It remains to be seen whether that argument will work. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York failed to stop Mr. Obama with a similar approach last spring. The advertisement’s contrast between Mr. McCain’s life in captivity and his peers’ carefree lifestyle at home is powerful. But the point may be lost when applied to Mr. Obama, who was a little boy then, and whose stump speech now regularly includes a call for the country to move beyond the culture wars of the 1960s. JIM RUTENBERG
264 2008-07-09 What will we get for our $3.6 billion? An eternal monument to Leona Helmsley’s generosity toward dogs. Even the dogs will not benefit as much as one might think, because Mrs. Helmsley elected to disburse her bequests through the Leona M. and Charitable Trust.

Most such foundations perform no charitable work but only give money to organizations that do. The law requires foundations to spend a minimum of just 5 percent of their assets a year, thus helping ensure their perpetual existence, and their donors’ immortality. In meeting this requirement, foundations are allowed to count fees paid to their trustees and other administrative expenses.

In 2003, legislation was introduced in Congress that would have required private foundations to devote the full 5 percent to charitable expenditures. But the foundations complained that this would threaten their perpetual existence, and the bill did not pass.

Some people who establish perpetual charitable trusts may assume that their philanthropic dollars will go further if the trust distributes only its investment income and preserves its principal. Anyone familiar with the story of the goose that laid the golden eggs knows the importance of not spending principal. However, because a dollar spent today is worth more than a dollar spent several years from now, in many cases, the sum of payments made over time — even in perpetuity — never equals the value of the original principal. The true beneficiaries of perpetuity are the banks and trust companies that receive annual fees for managing foundations’ assets.

There are other reasons the law should not encourage people to tie up their resources — and ours — for all time. The perpetual foundation is based on the assumption that people can make intelligent decisions about the use of resources far into the future. But a look back shows how flawed this thinking is. Would it really make sense for current policy to be dictated by the vision of someone living in 1930? 1630? 1230?

By setting aside assets for the uncertain needs of the future, we deprive ourselves of resources for addressing the obvious and compelling needs of today.

We should not give a blank check to support the whims of the wealthy. There should be a limit — a dollar amount or a percentage of the estate — on the estate tax charitable deduction. People could still give to charity as they like, but after a point they would be giving after-tax dollars. The deduction should be lower for bequests to private foundations than for money given directly to good causes.

We should also stop subsidizing immortality. Private foundations should be required to spend more of their assets on charitable work, even if it threatens their perpetual existence.

Until Congress makes these changes to the tax code, it is not just Leona Helmsley’s fortune that is going to the dogs; it is our tax dollars as well.
265 2008-07-09 The Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, which has been closed to the public since March for a continuing renovation and expansion, said it had reopened its main galleries to the public through Aug. 29. The galleries, on the second and third floors, feature the museum’s core exhibition exploring how moving images are made, marketed and exhibited. The galleries will be open Tuesdays through Thursdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Fridays from 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., with free admission after 4 p.m. The museum is expected to fully reopen in late 2009 or early 2010.
266 2008-07-09 Less than a week after its deal with Shakira was confirmed, the music giant Live Nation said Tuesday it had signed the Canadian rock band Nickelback to a long-term worldwide contract for recordings, touring, merchandise and other rights. Nickelback, whose hits include “How You Remind Me” and “Photograph,” has sold more than 26 million albums around the world. The contract will cover three touring and album cycles, with an option for a fourth, according to the announcement. People close to the negotiations, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the details, said the deal was worth $50 million to $70 million. By signing Nickelback, Live Nation, whose main business is concert promotion, took another step toward expanding its role at the center of the music industry, the traditional province of record labels. Nickelback is the fourth act to sign a so-called multiple rights or “360” deal, and the company said it planned to sign up four to six acts within a year. Besides Shakira, deals have been made with Madonna and Jay-Z.
267 2008-07-09 BERLIN — The United States and the Czech Republic signed a landmark accord on Tuesday to allow the Pentagon to deploy part of its widely debated antiballistic missile shield on territory once occupied by Soviet troops.

The accord, the first of its kind to be reached with a Central or East European country, was signed in Prague by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her Czech counterpart, Karel Schwarzenberg, despite strong opposition from Russia. It also needs to be ratified by Czech lawmakers, many of whom oppose it.

Russia warned on Tuesday that the accord could lead to a military response, which the Kremlin had previously threatened but never specified.

President Dmitri A. Medvedev and his predecessor, Vladimir V. Putin, who is now the Russian prime minister, have told the United States that the Kremlin sees a missile shield in this part of Europe as a threat to Russian security. Mr. Putin has said it could even lead to a new cold war.

But American and Czech officials said the system’s radar component, to be stationed south of Prague, would defend the NATO members in Europe and the United States against long-range weapons from the Middle East, particularly Iran.
268 2008-07-09 “Edgar Sawtelle” is his first book. And while he said the formal outline for the story came to him in all of five minutes, it took more than 10 years to complete (really more like 15, he later confessed, saying he didn’t want aspiring writers just starting out to hear that and be discouraged).

The tale is structured along the lines of “Hamlet,” with elements of Rudyard Kipling and Stephen King mixed in with the Shakespeare. Jane Smiley’s 1992 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, “A Thousand Acres,” which sets “King Lear” on an Iowa farm, immediately comes to mind when reading “Edgar Sawtelle.” Mr. Wroblewski, who had already sketched out his plot, said he was stunned when he first discovered that book. But he also knew that he wanted to do something different, that he wanted to include fantastic, supernatural elements in his story.

More than anything, it is his intimate knowledge of dogs and his humanized versions of them that most distinguish Mr. Wroblewski’s work.

The Sawtelles run a kennel near Chequamegon National Forest in Wisconsin, and the dogs they raise have an ineffable quality: “one extra increment of communication, insight, ability or all those things,” Mr. Wroblewski explained, as he watched the half-dozen or so mixed breeds, nearly all rescued from shelters, dash after balls or sniff one another in the sun-soaked park.

In the course of writing, Mr. Wroblewski worked out his theories about how you might go about producing a better dog. The Sawtelle dogs are a behavioral breed, he explains, dismissing the kind of physical pedigreed breeding practiced today as an outworn legacy of Victorian England’s class snootiness.

A rather homely white dog with pink-rimmed eyes, pink-tipped bunny ears that stick straight up and a tail curved like the letter C, which had been playing catch with Mr. Wroblewski, had now found another playmate to throw him a small orange rubber ball. The dog, part pit bull, part German shepherd, jumped for a long pop-up fly and caught it neatly in his mouth.

“That dog has good ballistic tracking,” Mr. Wroblewski interrupted himself to comment.

The 1934 book “Working Dogs,” about a project called Fortunate Fields to breed German shepherds for certain characteristics (like guiding the blind), was one of Mr. Wroblewski’s primary sources; he invents a correspondence between Edgar’s grandfather and an imagined director of the project that traces the evolution of these breeding theories.

Other details in the book are based on Mr. Wroblewski’s own experience. His family ran a dog kennel in Pittsville, in central Wisconsin, when he was a boy. It was a tough business, and after about five years, they had to give it up.

“They loved it,” he said of his parents. “We were really poor, so they could not afford to do it right, and they weren’t willing to lower standards.”

“It was really kind of crushing,” he said, recalling his 10-year-old self’s reaction. Mr. Wroblewski used those emotions in describing Edgar’s dawning awareness about the necessities of running a business. “I always thought of it as a time I wished I could go back and revisit,” he added. “I did in a way, through the book.”

What would he do differently now if he could go back? “I would pay more attention to my folks and to the dogs,” he said. “I am sure I will never again have the chance to live in a place as slow.”

Prince, a dog that was left near his parents’ farm, served as the model for Forte, the wild German shepherd that shows up at the Sawtelles’. “He was my dog all through high school,” Mr. Wroblewski said. “You could never put a collar on him, and he retrieved our garbage from the dump, exactly like Forte does.”

“I knew I wanted to write about dogs and the way that I knew them, not as fictional devices,” he said. “Real dogs.”

The idea that Edgar would be mute was also a result of personal experience. Mr. Wroblewski had to have minor surgery on his tongue in the early 1990s, which made it difficult to speak.

“I just stopped talking” for a while, he said. “I became very observant.” He thought it would be interesting to have a character who couldn’t talk. Edgar, he said, “is hyper-observant in the way that Hamlet is hyper-verbal.”

Mr. Wroblewski also knew he wanted to set his story in Wisconsin. It was only after he moved away that he realized there was something unique about the Midwestern character, he said.

Now he lives in Colorado, where he has begun work on his next novel. He shares a home with his girlfriend of 10 years, Kimberly McClintock, also a writer, and their dog, Lola. He prefers to keep Lola’s breed to himself so that readers won’t confuse the invented breed in his novel with the real thing. But on one point he is clear: she has manners.
269 2008-07-09 WASHINGTON — Senator John McCain told a major Hispanic group here Tuesday that he remains committed to passing the kind of immigration legislation that angered many Republican voters last year after first securing the nation’s borders.

Speaking to the convention of the League of United Latin American Citizens, Mr. McCain noted his efforts to pass comprehensive immigration legislation, which was supported by President Bush and such Democrats as Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, but which fell apart last year after an angry grass roots movement that viewed it as tantamount to amnesty rose up to oppose its passage.

“I and many other colleagues twice attempted to pass comprehensive immigration legislation to fix our broken borders, ensure respect for the laws of this country; recognize the important economic necessity of immigrant laborers, apprehend those who came here illegally to commit crimes, and deal practically and humanely with those who came here, as my distant ancestors did, to build a better, safer life for their families,” Mr. McCain said, “without excusing the fact they came here illegally or granting them privileges before those who have been waiting their turn outside the country.”

He added: “Many Americans, with good cause, didn’t believe us when we said we would secure our borders, and so we failed in our efforts. We must prove to them that we can and will secure our borders first, while respecting the dignity and rights of citizens and legal residents of the United States of America. But we must not make the mistake of thinking that our responsibility to meet this challenge will end with that accomplishment. We have economic and humanitarian responsibilities as well, and they require no less dedication from us in meeting them.”

Mr. McCain’s support of the failed immigration bill, which many Republican primary voters were vigorously opposed to, threatened to doom his candidacy last year. He was regularly attacked on the issue by Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and Republican contender, who spoke of it as the McCain-Kennedy bill. Angry voters often brought it up to him in town hall-style meetings in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.
270 2008-07-09 Less than a week after its deal with Shakira was confirmed, the entertainment marketing company Live Nation has signed the Canadian rock band Nickelback to another long-term worldwide contract for recordings, touring, merchandise and other rights, the company announced.

Nickelback, whose hits include “How You Remind Me” and “Photograph,” has sold more than 26 million albums around the world, and its most recent CD, “All the Right Reasons” (Roadrunner), has been on the Billboard 200 album chart longer than any other current release.

Financial terms were not released, but the contract is to cover three touring and album cycles, with an option for a fourth, according to the announcement.

By signing Nickelback, Live Nation, whose main business is concert promotion, took another step toward expanding its role at the center of the music industry, the traditional province of record labels. The company signaled on Tuesday that it may have more big deals to come.

Nickelback is the fourth act to sign a so-called multiple rights or “360” deal, and the company said it has planned to sign up four to six acts within a year. Besides Shakira, deals have been made with Madonna and Jay-Z, and a less extensive deal with U2, already announced, is expected to be completed soon.
271 2008-07-09 Though high-risk pools have existed for three decades, they cover only 207,000 people in a country with 47 million uninsured, according to the National Association of State Comprehensive Health Insurance Plans. Premiums typically are high, as much as twice the standard rate in some states, but are still not nearly enough to pay claims. That has left states to cover about 40 percent of the cost, usually through assessments on insurance premiums that are often passed on to consumers.

Health economists say it could take untold billions to transform the patchwork of programs into a viable federal safety net. The McCain campaign has made only a rough calculation of how many billions would be needed and has not identified a source for the fi-nancing beyond savings from existing programs. Finding the money will only get more difficult now that Mr. McCain has pledged to balance the federal budget by 2013, which already requires a significant reduction in the growth of spending.

Mr. McCain’s proposal stands in sharp relief to that of his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, who wants to require insurers to accept all applicants, regardless of their health. That is now the law in five states, including New York and New Jersey.

For those who can afford the premiums, or who qualify for subsidies in the 13 states that provide them, the high-risk programs can be a godsend.

Richard and Susan Logan, both of whom have battled cancer this decade, said they were grateful to have coverage for themselves and their daughter through the Maryland plan, even though it will cost $22,232 this year. They had been rejected by 25 commercial insurers, said Mrs. Logan, 57, a part-time billing clerk for a physician.

The Logans, who live in Gambrills, near Annapolis, estimate that without the high-risk pool, they would pay $40,000 a year for medication alone.

“The plan’s worth its weight in gold for that,” said Mr. Logan, 62, an aviation accident investigator. “Otherwise, we’d be paying for the medications out of our retirement.”

A fifth of the 14,000 participants in the Maryland plan receive subsidies that drop their premiums below the market rates charged to healthy people, said Richard A. Popper, the plan’s director. But many in the middle find the policies both unaffordable and intolerably restrictive, and Mr. Popper estimates that two-thirds of those eligible have not enrolled.

Almost all of the state pools impose waiting periods of up to a year before covering the health conditions that initially made it impossible to obtain insurance. In some states, fiscal pressures have forced heavy restrictions in coverage and enrollment. Florida, which has 3.8 million uninsured people, closed its pool to new applicants in 1991, and the membership has dwindled to 313.

An informal survey by the American Cancer Society recently found that only 2 percent of nearly 2,700 callers to its insurance hot line enrolled in high-risk pools within two months of being referred to them. “In most cases, we know they probably didn’t apply because they discovered high premiums or pre-existing condition clauses and just didn’t bother,” said Stephen Finan, associate director of policy for the group’s Cancer Action Network.

There is no census of the medically uninsurable. But in 2006, insurers turned down 11 percent of all individual applicants for medical reasons, including 22 percent of those 50 or older, according to America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry trade group.

Finding a way to cover the sickest of the uninsured is critically important because 15 percent of the population is responsible for three-fourths of health care spending. Many wind up in emergency rooms, which cannot legally reject them, leaving hospitals with more than $30 billion in unpaid bills each year.

Mr. McCain’s proposal, which he calls the Guaranteed Access Plan, would be part of a market-based restructuring that is in many ways more fundamental than the universal coverage proposed by Mr. Obama.

With the goal of making the insurance marketplace more equitable and competitive, Mr. McCain would end the longstanding exclusion from income taxes of health benefits paid by employers. The 17 million nonelderly people covered by directly purchased insurance do not enjoy that advantage.

Mr. McCain would replace the exclusion with refundable health care tax credits of $2,500 per person and $5,000 per family in the hope of driving consumers into the individual insurance market. To help push down premiums, he would allow the purchase of policies across state lines.

Currently, those who buy insurance individually often face higher costs because their risks are not spread across broad groups of workers. Though insurers cannot discriminate against participants in group plans, they evaluate consumers seeking individual coverage case by case to determine if they are worth the risk of coverage, and at what price. Insurers contend that if they had to charge the same rates to all comers, many would wait until they were sick to buy policies.

The McCain campaign recognizes that in an invigorated individual market, even larger numbers of chronically ill people would go without the protection afforded by group coverage. High-risk pools would theoretically serve to fill the gaps.

Critics argue that, to date, insurers have benefited from the state pools as much as the uninsured. As long as premiums remain above market rates, the pools insulate commercial insurers from the greatest risks while giving customers little incentive to abandon their private policies.

“They are run in ways that protect the profitability of commercial insurers,” said Karen Pollitz, a professor at Georgetown University who has studied high-risk pools and who has served on the board of the Maryland plan. “They leave the illusion that there’s a safety net without there really being much of one.”

Mr. Obama’s plan differs from Mr. McCain’s in several ways. In addition to requiring insurers to accept all applicants, he would require that parents obtain insurance for their children. To make premiums affordable, he would create a Medicare-like government plan that would be open to all and pump up to $65 billion a year into subsidies. The money would come from repealing President Bush’s income tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 a year.

When Mr. McCain unveiled his high-risk pool proposal, his chief domestic policy adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office, estimated the federal cost at $7 billion to $10 billion. Mr. Holtz-Eakin said five million to seven million uninsured people would be singled out for coverage.

But in a recent interview, Mr. Holtz-Eakin emphasized that the projections “could change dramatically” depending on how the program was structured.

Mr. Holtz-Eakin and other McCain health advisers, including Thomas P. Miller, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, and Stephen T. Parente, a health economist at the University of Minnesota, said premiums would probably be capped at twice the standard rates. They said subsidies might be available to those making up to four times the federal poverty level, or $41,600 for a single person.

Financial incentives would probably be provided to those who effectively manage their diseases. No decision has been made about waiting periods for pre-existing conditions, the advisers said.

Mr. McCain’s proposal would represent a huge increase over the $50 million a year that Congress now appropriates in grants to the state pools, in a program that began in 2002. But several analysts questioned whether even $10 billion would be nearly enough, given that the states now spend about $2 billion to insure 207,000 people.

“I do not for a minute think it will cost 7 to 10 billion dollars a year,” Ms. Pollitz said. “It may cost 7 to 10 billion dollars a week.”

In an admonition for Mr. McCain, Maryland’s five-year-old plan, like others before it, has quickly become a victim of its growth. As enrollment expanded by 30 percent in each of the last two years, actuaries forecast insolvency as soon as 2010 and compelled the plan’s board to apply the brakes.

Over the last two years, it has raised premiums, deductibles and co-payments, increased out-of-pocket maximums, lowered the lifetime cap on payments and added a waiting period for pre-existing conditions, which rose to six months from two months on July 1. It also increased the amount applicants must pay to buy their way out of the waiting period.

At the same time, the plan is making more people eligible for subsidies. To keep it afloat, the state is raising the assessment on hospital bills that provides two-thirds of its financing.

“It’s not easy when you see there is strong demand for something and you need to temper that demand,” Mr. Popper, the plan’s director, said. “But you either find a way to slow enrollment through economic forces or you close the plan and no one gets in, which is a solution that no one wants.”
272 2008-07-09 NARKISS--Bezalel. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Professor Emeritus Bezalel Narkiss. Professor Narkiss, who held the Nicolas Landau Chair in Art History at The Hebrew Universit...
273 2008-07-09 LASTING PROBLEMS Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, hinted at an emerging consensus among policy makers that housing problems would persist into 2009.       IndyMac Bancorp, the California-based lender, faced a run on the bank as de...
274 2008-07-10 Yahoo’s Jerry Yang (middle) with Google’s Larry Page (left) and Sergey Brin The media conference at Sun Valley, Idaho is all about mogul-watching. So what could Jerry Yang, Yahoo‘s besieged chief executive, be talking about with his new part...
275 2008-07-10 It’s not just journalists who are scouring the fringes of the Allen & Company conference here in Sun Valley for attention from the assorted moguls and power brokers. An ambitious self-described deal-maker, David Frank, is here — without an inv...
276 2008-07-10 State auditors found that a Brooklyn dentist had billed Medicaid for giving several patients fillings for all 32 of their teeth on the same day, and some cases pulling all the same teeth....
277 2008-07-10 The new TKTS booth at 1 MetroTech Center, at Jay Street and Myrtle Avenue in Downtown Brooklyn, will be open from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday....
278 2008-07-10 June was Senator John McCain's best fund-raising month of the campaign, according to figures released Thursday by an aide....
279 2008-07-10 Providing further evidence that the credit problems in the U.K. are impacting all levels of the business, high-end property specialist Savills this week revealed that the number of sales in central London fell by 45 percent in the first six months...
280 2008-07-10 "The average cost per unit for a prime-time commercial on the broadcast television networks in the second quarter declined by 11.1 percent."...
281 2008-07-10 The Republican candidate denounces remarks by Phil Gramm that we're in a "mental recession."...
282 2008-07-10 "DogTown," the National Geographic Channel series about animal rehabilitation, is guaranteed to get press for its second-season premiere....
283 2008-07-10 The Democratic candidate reacts to Phil Gramm's remarks that we're in a "mental recession."...
284 2008-07-10 Senator John McCain said he will not allow Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to fail....
285 2008-07-10 Turkey, its hopes dashed at the recent Euro Cup, can take comfort in having come out on top of an even more prestigious contest: Prospect magazine's poll to determine the world's greatest living intellectual. And the winner is ... Fethullah Gulen,...
286 2008-07-10 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. announces plans to broadcast ads against McCain's economic policies in battleground states....
287 2008-07-10 CNBC interviews Andrew Liveris, chief executive of Dow Chemical, on the strategy behind the deal.
288 2008-07-10 More details on the acquisition, with the chief executive of Dow Chemical, Andrew Liveris, on CNBC.
289 2008-07-10 It's no secret that lots of companies are going to release applications for the iPhone. But Apple is nonetheless banning them from discussing their plans until noon Thursday....
290 2008-07-10 Common antidepressants and other drugs can increase the risk for falls among patients over 65....
291 2008-07-10 Did someone at Sepah News, the media arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, use Photoshop to manipulate a missile-test image?...
292 2008-07-10 One by one, John Devaney sold his treasures, hoping to forestall what was in the end inevitable. He sold his Renoir and his Gulfstream, his home and his helicopter. Even his cherished yacht – gone. But on Wednesday Mr. Devaney, who made and then...
293 2008-07-10 Richard Petty is one of the great sporting icons, who transformed his business, who takes over an event just by being there, with a black Charlie 1 Horse cowboy hat looming over his bladelike face. He turned 71 on July 2 but has learned a new tric...
294 2008-07-10 Dow Chemical said Thursday that it has agreed to buy Rohm and Haas, the old-line specialty chemical maker, for about $15.3 billion in cash, one of the largest deals this year and one made with the help of Warren E. Buffett and the Kuwaiti governme...
295 2008-07-10 HSBC has appointed Hitendra Dave head of global markets for India, FinanceAsia reported. Mr. Dave will be responsible for the growth of sales and trading, balance sheet management and the debt financing business in the country. Go to Article from ...
296 2008-07-10 German thin-film solar cell manufacturer Sulfurcell closed on a $133.7 million round, which was led by Intel Capital with a $37.7 million contribution. Sulfurcell will use the money to expand the company's existing production, which started in 200...
297 2008-07-10 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Verizon Wireless has agreed to pay $21 million to settle a lawsuit filed by customers in California upset with the company’s early termination fees, a lawyer in the case said Wednesday.

Many details of the settlement still need to be worked out and authorized by the Alameda County Superior Court, the lawyer, Alan Plutzik, said.

“We are recovering cash” that will be available to Verizon mobile phone customers who paid fees to end their contracts early, Mr. Plutzik said.

He said it was unclear how many Verizon customers would be eligible to share in the settlement, a decision that would be up to the judge. A spokesman for Verizon Communications could not be reached for comment late Wednesday.

Telecommunications companies charge early termination fees that can range from $150 to $225 when customers cancel their service contracts before they expire.

Wireless companies have said they must charge the fees to recover the cost of cellphones, which they subsidize when they sign up customers for long-term service contracts.
298 2008-07-10 Mr. Devaney’s Horizon Strategy fund, founded near the height of the mortgage bubble, is just the latest hedge fund to fall victim to the credit squeeze. Several others, including Peloton Partners and Sailfish Capital Partners, have stumbled as well.

But in the secretive world of hedge funds, Mr. Devaney stood out for his unusual willingness to go public with his views.

Many of the hedge funds that have run into trouble lately bought the same sort of mortgage investments that have cost Wall Street banks so dearly. But because hedge funds are private firms, their losses are not generally visible to the public.

In an interview Wednesday, Mr. Devaney called himself a fighter and described his efforts to avoid the collapse of his fund during the last year. He said he had personally lost more than $150 million. And he described his plans to rebuild his business and reputation.

“I’ve taken as much pain as virtually anybody in this industry,” Mr. Devaney said. “I am bleeding, personally.”

He said he was determined to recover money for his investors last July, when he froze his funds, blocking investors from removing their money. But in September, a bank demanded he repay a large loan. That bank, which he would not name, seized 40 percent of the equity in his hedge funds. His accountants and lawyers told him to shut down his funds. But he did not, he said, because he wanted to try to save his investors’ money.

“Other guys who are only looking at dollars and cents would have shut the fund down,” he said. “I have battled it out to try to save all my investors.”

In September, Mr. Devaney said he stopped receiving management fees on the funds, paying expenses out of his own pocket. He was also staggering beneath a $50 million trading loss in his main broker-dealer business, United Capital Markets Holding, which is still in business.

The only money Mr. Devaney made last year came from his personal liquidations — some at a profit, like his Renoir, which he bought for $9 million and sold for $13.5 million.

Mr. Devaney thinks the mortgage crisis is nowhere near its end and expects regional banks and insurance companies to face big losses on mortgage bonds.

On June 26, as his hedge fund slipped away, Mr. Devaney sat down and wrote a letter to customers of his brokerage business, warning of the pain to come. For all his troubles, Mr. Devaney was unbowed Wednesday.

“Do I pack up everything and quit?” he said. “Do I retire? No!”
299 2008-07-10 Few of us want to get our hands dirty messing with the operating system in our cellphones, but sometimes it’s nice to know you could if the need arose. The Neo FreeRunner from Openmoko is a completely open-source cellphone with a few interesting high-end features.

The 6-ounce phone sells for $399 and has a 3-inch touch screen and 256 megabytes of storage. It includes a G.P.S. sensor, Wi-Fi and GPRS data networking along with Bluetooth. Interestingly, the device also has a motion sensor like the iPhone. The phone works internationally and with T-Mobile and AT&T networks in the United States, and is available now at www.openmoko.com.

While it works like a regular phone, the FreeRunner’s operating system is completely open and customizable. This means you can change almost anything, including the programs that handle contacts and text messages. Hobbyists could use the phone to learn the basics of handset software design, while system administrators could create custom programs for employees.

Messing with your iPhone’s innards will get you in trouble with Apple. Those who can’t resist may be better off with the Neo FreeRunner. JOHN BIGGS
300 2008-07-10 The enthusiasm among software developers is high, from San Jose to San Francisco. But, at the same time, some developers are approaching Apple with caution as they figure out what their relationship with the company will be. Many expect the dealings to be more lucrative than those with wireless carriers, which in large part control what programs end up on phones. But there are still many unknowns, especially for developers whose applications will compete with the popular iTunes music and video store.

Apple has a substantial way to go to catch its competitors. Palm, Microsoft, R.I.M., Nokia and Symbian have all enticed developers to write software for their smartphone operating systems. Palm, for example, says that it has 30,000 active software developers, and Microsoft said last month that it had more than 18,000 applications available for its Windows Mobile operating system, which is available from 160 cellular carriers around the world.

Still, Mr. Jobs is catching up quickly, and none of his rivals are dismissing him.

“Everybody wants to build an iPhone app,” said Gene Munster, a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. “It’s pretty rare you hear things like this. The enthusiasm is surprising.”

Matt Murphy, a partner in a fund set up by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers to invest in iPhone apps, ascribes the intense interest to the consumer demand for the iPhone, as well as the unfettered distribution promised by the App Store: it limits the phone company’s role as a gatekeeper.

“A lot of the best entrepreneurs haven’t wanted to start anything because the carriers had to bless you,” he said. “There were a lot of unknowns.” For instance, there was no standard deal for what carriers would be paid. Carriers also rejected some applications and, Mr. Murphy said, “No one wanted to fall on their face.”

One indication of how much the iPhone changes the scene is Mr. Murphy’s fund, the iFund, which plans to invest $100 million in new iPhone-related software firms. In the last four months, the Kleiner fund has received 2,000 financing requests from developers, 85 percent of them intended for consumers.

Mr. Murphy said that Kleiner was serious about 100 of those ideas. The fund expects games, health care, social networking, mobile commerce and location-based services to be the most popular types of software. An application that would allow Bay Area surfers to check tides and network with other surfers failed to past muster.

Instead, Kleiner is backing, among others, iControl Networks, which is creating an application to let homeowners turn off their lights and alarms at home, as well as monitor security cameras, via their iPhones.

Still, Apple could end up at odds with some developers — particularly creators or distributors of content and media — who offer applications that compete directly with iTunes. Rajeev Raman, chief executive of Mywaves, an ad-sponsored free mobile video service available on millions of handsets, including Nokia and BlackBerry smartphones, said he would like to offer Mywaves in the App Store.

But he has made little headway in his discussions with Apple, he said: “We have a reverse conflict because they are not providing video for free, but we are. We are interested, but we don’t want to jump into anything that will have our hands tied behind our backs.“

When asked about it, Mr. Jobs said: “He’s right. We will compete.” He added, “That’s a discussion to have.”

Twenty-five percent of the first 500 applications at the store will be free, Mr. Jobs said. Of the commercial applications, 90 percent will be sold for $9.99 or less, he said, adding that a third of the first wave of applications will be games.

Mr. Jobs insisted that the 30/70 split is a more generous deal for developers than what is common in the video game industry. And he said that Apple would provide distribution and marketing.

The question that remains unanswered is how Apple and Mr. Jobs will manage the relationship with software developers. When the iPod was released, music executives hailed him as a savior for their flagging business. But they later complained they were not paid enough. Hollywood studio executives were even more cautious, dragging their feet for months before allowing full-length movies on iTunes.

Mr. Jobs declined to elaborate on how he expected to foster a more positive relationship with software developers, but Mr. Murphy of the iFund said: “He can’t kill the golden goose. The promise of the iPhone is developers. If you choke them off, there are a lot of other platforms waiting.”
301 2008-07-10 “A lot of this was just basically fear,” said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management in Chicago. “People go back to remembering their fears pretty quickly in the face of somewhat good news. There are a lot of rumors surrounding Fannie and Freddie; it’s the same old things we’ve been talking about for months.”

Expectations of default by Fannie and Freddie rose significantly, as measured by the credit market, a sign that “a lot of people are really concerned about liquidity and insolvency” at the companies, said Tim Backshall, chief strategist at Credit Derivatives Research in California.

Fannie Mae paid a yield of 3.27 percent on two-year notes on Wednesday, 74 basis points more than comparable Treasury bonds, three times what it paid in June 2006.

Financial services firms, like investment banks and credit card companies, took the biggest hits of the day. Citigroup and American Express, both big Dow components, plunged more than 5 percent, contributing to the decline of the index, which ended down 236.77 points, at 11,147.44. Intel dropped 5.3 percent, and Cisco Systems lost 5.7 percent after analysts downgraded the prospects for the technology sector. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index shed 2.6 percent.

Investors also lost the comfort of falling oil prices, which had declined more than $9 over the previous two days. On Wednesday, missile tests in Iran and a drop in American supplies pushed oil up 1 cent, to $136.05 a barrel, in New York trading.

The steep stock sell-off came as a disappointment after Tuesday’s session, when reassuring remarks from Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Henry S. Paulson, the Treasury secretary, led to a 152-point rally in the Dow. Mr. Bernanke, in particular, had hoped to soothe fears about the mortgage crisis by announcing plans for the Fed to restrict exotic mortgages and high-cost loans, an effort to help resuscitate the ailing housing market.

The market was soft for most of the trading session on Wednesday, but the stock charts took a vertical turn south just after 3 p.m. “Investors say, if it’s not improving by 2:30, let’s get out,” said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor’s. The S & P. 500 finished down 2.3 percent, or 29.01 points, at 1,244.69.

The fear in the mortgage market claimed another prominent victim on Tuesday, when IndyMac, one of the biggest independent lenders in the country, faced a veritable run on the bank. The company said it would close down its retail mortgage business, lay off half its employees and no longer accept large deposits. Its stock price lost 13.6 percent on Wednesday after plunging 38 percent the day before.

The dollar fell on Wednesday against the euro, which rose about 0.5 percent, to $1.5743 from $1.5670 on Tuesday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell by 0.07, or 1.8 percent, to 3.81 percent.
302 2008-07-10 Steve & Barry’s, the fashion retailer, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday but said its 276 stores would remain open while the company continued to look for a buyer or sold some of its assets.

Steve & Barry’s also said it would eliminate 172 jobs in its headquarters in Port Washington, N.Y., and elsewhere.

Steve Shore and Barry Prevor, who founded Steve & Barry’s in 1985 as a seller of inexpensive collegiate apparel and reinvented the chain in recent years with celebrity collections from Sarah Jessica Parker, Venus Williams and others, had approached other retailers recently about a possible bailout. The Sears Holdings Corporation and its Kmart unit were said to remain interested in some of the labels.

The company said its Chapter 11 filing was caused by a credit squeeze. The company had opened dozens of stores in the last few years, just ahead of the sharp economic downturn.

In a statement, Steve & Barry’s said total sales rose 70 percent in the first five months of 2008, and sales at stores open more than a year were up 15 percent.

The company ran into a cash squeeze after defaulting on a loan made in March by the commercial lending unit of General Electric, and could not secure other financing, according to people close to the discussions. In 2006, TA Associates, a private equity firm, bought a minority share.
303 2008-07-10 While Dow Chemical claims that it has no liability in the Bhopal disaster and now seeks backroom deals to create an “appropriate investment climate” for itself in India, the people of Bhopal continue to suffer debilitating illnesses from exposure to contamination in their water, soil and air.

To this day, Dow Chemical and its subsidiary, Union Carbide, hide toxicological information about the chemicals spewed into the environment, making effective treatment for victims impossible.

Dow can say it does not own the land at the former factory site, but its responsibility to those who suffered is clear, morally and legally.

This point was reinforced by the Indian Ministry of Law and Justice, which found that any legal liability must be borne by Dow.

If Dow truly believes that it does not have a responsibility to those who continue to suffer in Bhopal, it should not hesitate to comply with the pending summons to appear in Indian criminal court.

Amy O’Meara

Director of Business and Human Rights

Amnesty International USA

 New York, July 8, 2008
304 2008-07-10 The SimpleDoubleDeux Bed, left, consists of two interlocking molded plywood platforms that slide together to form a single bed and apart to create a double bed. It is the brainchild of Daniel Jauslin, a principal in Drexler Guinand Jauslin Architects in Zurich, who needed a bed small enough to fit in his 9-by-12-foot guest room but big enough for two guests.

“We wanted flexibility,” he said. “We thought it could be good to have two beds to take the space of one.”

Mr. Jauslin’s firm sells the bed ($3,485 at simpledoubledeux.ch), along with a pair of latex foam mattresses ($1,878), and this year it won the top furniture award in I.D. magazine’s annual design review. It is one of 130 works in 8 categories, chosen from more than 2,000 entries, on display through Sept. 28 at the Sheila C. Johnson Design Center, Parsons the New School for Design, 66 Fifth Avenue (13th Street), newschool.edu.
305 2008-07-10 The Israelis — whose air force last month practiced what American intelligence officials called a rehearsal for a possible strike on Iranian nuclear facilities — said they did not want war with Iran. But Mark Regev, a spokesman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, said, “The Iranian nuclear program and the Iranian ballistic missile program must be of grave concern to the entire international community.”

The missile tests drew a sharp response from the United States. Gordon D. Johndroe, the deputy White House press secretary, said in a statement at the Group of 8 meeting in Japan that Iran’s development of ballistic missiles was a violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions.

“The Iranian regime only furthers the isolation of the Iranian people from the international community when it engages in this sort of activity,” Mr. Johndroe said.

He urged Iran’s leaders to “refrain from further missile tests if they truly seek to gain the trust of the world,” and said, “The Iranians should stop the development of ballistic missiles which could be used as a delivery vehicle for a potential nuclear weapon immediately.”

Energy traders reacted to the news by bidding up oil prices, which had been falling in recent days. The most watched oil price benchmark — light, low-sulfur crude for delivery next month — rose more than $2 a barrel in early electronic trading, though by late morning in New York the gain had been pared somewhat.

Some saw the tests as essentially deterrent in nature. A senior American intelligence official said the missile tests, together with belligerent comments by Iranian officials, seemed part of a strategy to warn Iran’s neighbors of its “capacity to inflict pain.”

“I think Iran has a hedgehog strategy: mess with me and you’ll get stuck,” said the official, Thomas Fingar, the deputy director of national intelligence for analysis and head of the National Intelligence Council, during remarks at the Center for National Policy, in Washington.

Iran’s Arabic-language Al Alam television said the missiles, launched from an undisclosed location in the Iranian desert, included a “Shahab-3 with a conventional warhead weighing one ton and a 2,000-kilometer range,” about 1,250 miles. Cairo, Athens, Istanbul, New Delhi and the Arabian peninsula are within that distance of Iranian territory.

Iranian television showed what appeared to be two Shahabs lifting off within seconds of each other.

“That’s surprising,” Charles P. Vick, an expert on the Iranian rocket program at GlobalSecurity.org, a research group in Alexandria, Va., said in a telephone interview. “Historically, it’s always been single launches.”

Mr. Vick added, however, that the Shahab display might be less formidable than Iran had claimed. The missile’s conic warhead appeared to resemble an older Shahab model with a range of about 1,500 kilometers, or about 900 miles, rather than the newest one.

The Iranians fired their first Shahab a decade ago, Mr. Vick said, and are now replacing all models with a more advanced missile that burns solid propellants, which are considered better for quick launchings.

In a sense, he said, Wednesday’s Shahab firings seemed to be simply a way for the Iranians to clear out old inventory. The biggest missile that the Iranians apparently fired — known as the 3a model — is no longer in production, Mr. Vick said.

The 3a model predates the atomic jitters that arose with the debut of the Shahab-3b in August 2004. The 3b’s distinctive nosecone — known as triconic and made up of three distinct shapes— is viewed by Western experts as ideal for carrying a nuclear warhead.

The Shahab-3b, Mr. Vick said, is apparently the delivery vehicle intended for the nuclear warhead that, according to a National Intelligence Estimate issued last November, the Iranians worked on until late 2003.

The other missiles in Wednesday’s tests were identified as the Zelzal, with a range of 250 miles, and the Fateh, with a range of 110 miles, Agence France-Presse reported. Iranian television showed what was said to be the Shahab-3 missile rising amid clouds of dust from the desert launching site.

Hossein Salami, a commander of the Revolutionary Guards, was quoted as saying: “The aim of these war games is to show we are ready to defend the integrity of the Iranian nation.”

“Our missiles are ready for shooting at any place and any time, quickly and with accuracy. The enemy must not repeat its mistakes. The enemy targets are under surveillance,” he said.

The missile tests followed remarks on Tuesday by a senior Iranian official warning the United States and Israel against attacking Iran.

“In case that they commit such foolishness, Tel Aviv and the U.S. fleet in the Persian Gulf would be the first targets to burst into flames receiving Iran’s crushing response,” said the official, Ali Shirazi, a representative of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader.

Like the missile tests, the bellicose language seemed part of an effort by Iran to couple offers of negotiation with warnings of military preparedness.

Negotiations between Iran and the West are scheduled to resume this month, and Iranian officials have sounded mounting alarms about speculation that the United States or Israel could attack Iran’s nuclear facilities. On a European tour last month, President Bush repeated Washington’s warning that no options had been ruled out.

Last weekend, Iran signaled that it would not comply with United Nations Security Council resolutions requiring it to stop enriching uranium. During his European visit, Mr. Bush won pledges from some European leaders to tighten sanctions against Iran.

But Iran’s foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said his country was prepared to open comprehensive negotiations with the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, and the six world powers — the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China — that have proposed a set of incentives to resolve the impasse over Iran’s nuclear program.
306 2008-07-10 Because smaller businesses cannot spread the costs and risks of an individual’s high medical bills over a large work force the way a big company can, they often must settle for less-generous coverage that leaves workers with substantial out-of-pocket medical expenses. Many small employers simply choose not to provide health benefits, which can cost more than $12,000 a year for a family of four.

Of the 47 million uninsured people in this country, at least 20 million are employed by small businesses or work for themselves — a figure that has increased by an average of more than 500,000 a year since 2000. That is why, even as the presidential candidates and are floating ideas for making insurance easier to obtain by individuals, there are also efforts under way to address the needs of small businesses.

“Half of the uninsured people in our state are working for small business,” said Nancy Wyman, the state comptroller for .

Despite broad interest in the issue, though, making significant changes at the state level can be difficult, politically and practically, as Connecticut’s recent experience shows.

In June, the state’s Republican governor, , vetoed a measure passed by the Democratic-led legislature that was meant to help small employers by letting them join a state-run insurance-purchasing pool.

Big insurers lobbied heavily against the move, arguing that it would do nothing to stem the rising health costs that are reflected in high premiums.

“This debate continues to focus on the premiums rather than health care costs,” said David R. Fusco, the president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Connecticut, the state’s largest insurer for small businesses. “We have to look at the issue of the underlying cost.”

Connecticut Democratic legislators have vowed to try again next year.

Massachusetts, in its widely watched effort to overhaul health insurance, has focused so far on making affordable coverage available to individuals. But later this year the state plans to expand the program to small employers, letting them participate in the state-supervised marketplace set up to give individuals group purchasing power.

Nationally, the percentage of businesses with fewer than 200 employees that offer insurance fell to 59 percent last year, down from 66 percent as recently as 2002, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. And less than half of the smallest companies, those with under 10 employees, were providing coverage last year.

Not only does the cost of insurance tend to be a bigger burden for a smaller business, but Jon R. Gabel, a health policy researcher at the National Opinion Research Center at the , estimates that small firms pay 18 percent more for the same insurance than big companies.

And employers that do continue to provide health benefits are tending to ask workers to pay more of the overall premiums. So even when small business owners offer coverage, their employees may not be able to afford to sign up.

Louis Lista runs the Pond House Cafe in , where he employs about 50 people, depending on the time of year. Some of his workers are dishwashers, making just $10 or $11 an hour. Although Mr. Lista pays half of the cost of coverage, his employees must nonetheless come up with as much as $150 a month for their share of health insurance. Some choose to go without.

“When they’re sick, they go to the emergency room,” Mr. Lista said. One of his waitresses who has chosen not to take insurance, for example, recently ran up $15,000 in medical bills from an emergency room visit. “She doesn’t have the money to pay for it,” he added.

In Connecticut, Governor Rell has said that despite her veto she wants to work with legislators to address the concerns of small business. Legislators had sought a way for small businesses to join with the state’s 200,000 employees to spread their risks and take advantage of the state’s negotiating clout with insurers.

Even before the governor’s recent veto, Connecticut had already taken significant steps meant to help small employers provide affordable health coverage. It was among the first, for example, to pass laws intended to limit the large annual jumps in premiums that tend to plague small businesses.

“Connecticut was one of the first states to do it right,” said Gary Claxton, who researches health insurance for the Kaiser Family Foundation.

But even Connecticut has yet to find a way to reduce the potential risk to a small company or insurer if even a single employee develops a serious illness and runs up tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars in medical bills.

And small businesses in Connecticut and elsewhere still complain of the shock of sharply higher rates when, for example, they replace a 25-year-old man with a 35-year-old woman — insurers know that women tend to go to the doctor more frequently — or when a worker celebrates a milestone birthday.

In , a florist shop in Culpeper that covers three people had its premiums raised by more than 50 percent last year, after the owner turned 60. The business, which pays the full premium for employees, now spends nearly $1,800 a month on health insurance, up from $1,100, and it elected not to seek a reduction in rates by cutting benefits.

Cutting benefits is “not fair to your employees,” said Carol Inskeep, the shop’s manager. Many small business owners say it is hard to understand how their insurers are pricing the premiums. “The last few years have been puzzling,” said Thomas Massingham, a florist in Dover, N.H., who employs three people and pays half of the cost of their coverage.

Mr. Massingham has seen premiums go up by about 50 percent in some years, only to fall drastically after in 2006 began forbidding insurers from using the health of a company’s employees to set premiums and put stricter limits on rate increases. Even so, this year he was faced with a rate jump of nearly 40 percent, to about $600 an employee a month, to keep the same coverage.

By switching the type of plan and raising everyone’s annual maximum out-of-pocket expenses to $2,000, up from $1,500 last year, he limited the premium increase to 15 percent. He and his employees will split the $500 monthly premium per person.

State laws now typically make it impossible for businesses to cross state lines to create their own purchasing pools, and small companies have had little success to date in being able to band together in sufficient numbers within state borders.

But the federal legislation would let businesses form such purchasing pools more easily, even across state lines. The legislation would also prevent insurers in any state from basing their premiums on the health status of employees — a prohibition now on the books in only a minority of states. The legislation would also offer tax credits to businesses that provide coverage insurance to their employees.

The Senate version of the bill, introduced in April and supported by Democrats of and of and Republicans of and of , would give states the ability to regulate the insurance plans offered through the pools, to prevent them from being abused. A similar House version was introduced this month.

The bipartisan legislation is supported by a number of small business groups, including the National Federation of Independent Business, as well as consumer groups.

The states, meanwhile, will continue experimenting with their own efforts, according to Richard Cauchi, who follows state health initiatives for the National Conference of State Legislatures. “There’s certainly momentum and growing interest on the state level,” he said.

In Connecticut, Ms. Wyman, a Democrat who supported the measure the governor recently vetoed, continues to push for creation of some sort of state-directed purchasing pool. But she recognizes the challenges ahead. “This is not an easy problem to solve,” she said. “We know it.”
307 2008-07-10 “It’s better to own 30 to 40 percent of something than 100 percent of nothing,” Petty declared. Perhaps he should have leaned out a window overlooking Park Avenue, imparting his country wisdom to speculators who were probably running their own corporations into the ground even as King Richard spoke.

This slender relic drove his first race on July 12, 1958, finishing sixth. To commemorate that event, he will drive guests around Chicagoland Speedway on the anniversary this Sunday, before the actual race.

He has partners now, just like the Maras of New York, who sold part of the football Giants, and several other Nascar firms that have sold part of themselves. Just this week, it was learned that the Rooneys of Pittsburgh may sell a chunk of the Steelers.

One could get all sentimental about the change from hardy pioneers like Lee Petty, who begat Richard, who begat Kyle, who begat Adam. However, on May 12, 2000, Adam Petty died in a crash at a speedway in Loudon, N.H., interrupting the Petty dynasty because Adam’s younger brother, Austin, now 26, never wanted to drive.

“As I get older, as Kyle gets older, we don’t have our grandson here,” Petty said Wednesday. “This is something we’ve been talking about for four or five years,” he said of the new partnership. “This is for my family. That’s what happens to family businesses.”

Petty said the soaring price of gasoline is more of a problem for the fans who travel long distances than for the teams that drive hundreds of miles around the track.

“Nascar is at the mercy of the fans,” he said. “The fans are at the mercy of gasoline. Television ratings are up but attendance is down, so it works out. It gets so expensive.”

Does he have any answer for the economics of racing? “We usually go into a town on Thursday night,” he said. “We could cut back a day or two, go in Saturday, go back Sunday, but then we are cutting back on the people at the motels. There’s no simple answer.

“In the 1970s, when we had a fuel shortage, we looked it up,” Petty continued. “The New York Giants were using more gasoline to fly to California for a football game than we are for a 500-lap race. If we cut 10 percent, the gas companies would raise the price.”

Even with American automobile manufacturers in flux, Petty said he expected to receive the 20 to 25 Dodges used in a racing season. Another sign of the nervous economy is the drivers who lose, or cannot find, a sponsor. Petty said that some sponsors were happy as long as their product was selling, but he added that some drivers might get desperate if they saw their sponsorship eroding. “Sometimes a driver is driving over his head,” he said.

Nascar maintains that its drivers are safer than ever because of recent products like Head and Neck Support, softer walls and the Car of Tomorrow. Petty insisted that past innovations were “kind of slipped in.”

“Fire extinguishers, better seats, roll bars, we didn’t tell nobody,” he said. “We didn’t want to tell people it was dangerous.”

Asked if the recent innovations would have saved the lives of his grandson, or of Dale Earnhardt, who died Feb. 18, 2001, King Richard, in there behind the wraparound sunglasses, said: “You could probably say 99 percent yes. It was a multitude of things. But look, I drove 32, 33 years, I broke a lot of stuff, but it’s still attached. I’m still moving around.”

He added: “I feel really lucky. I was able to grow. I am Nascar. I am history. I was there. I put in my two cents and others put in their 98 cents. It makes you feel proud to be part of it.”

The family name is still on the product, with that American original, King Richard, reassuring people that Petty Enterprises still keeps its roots, even with such a thing as a new majority investor.
308 2008-07-10 PORTSMOUTH, Ohio — Iran’s saber-rattling missile tests quickly became a flash point in the presidential election on Wednesday as Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama each seized on the tests to try to validate their differing policies on Iran.

Each man spoke of the growing threat posed by Iran, and each called for tougher penalties against the country. But Mr. Obama called once again for pursuing what he called “direct and aggressive diplomacy with the Iranian regime,” while Mr. McCain warned against that approach and said that the tests highlighted the need for a missile defense system in Europe.

It was a classic example of how events beyond the control of campaigns can intrude into the sometimes insular debates of a presidential race. Mr. McCain had dedicated the week to campaigning on the economy, but he tends to talk about flare-ups in the Middle East to highlight his foreign policy experience. He immediately issued a statement about the tests and ended up talking about them for much of the day.

And Mr. Obama seemed more than happy to take up the gauntlet, arguing that the heightened tensions with Iran showed that a new approach was needed.

“These missile tests demonstrate once again that we need to change our policy to deal aggressively with the threat posed by the Iranian regime,” Mr. Obama said in a statement that called for more direct diplomacy. “Through its nuclear program, missile capability, meddling in Iraq, support for terrorism, and threats against Israel, Iran now poses the greatest strategic challenge to the United States in the region in a generation.”
309 2008-07-10 She ordered samples of the brand’s face wash and lavender face serum, which, Lindi Skin’s Web site says, “are intended to help individuals feel better, both physically and emotionally and gain a greater degree of control over the side effects they experience during radiation therapy and chemotherapy.”

Depending on whom you ask, such products give patients one more tool to ease side effects or false hope that a cancer-specific balm is more effective than a mild drugstore lotion.

It’s now easier than ever for cancer patients (and their relatives who come bearing presents) to find skin-care lines made specially for them. At least five brands are now sold in the gift shops of prominent hospitals, and some makers give free samples to oncologists for distribution to patients.

Lindi Skin started in 2003 with six products, after its founder, Lindy Snider, watched two friends endure cancer treatment. In March, its 13-piece line of creams and skin cooling wraps arrived in drugstores including the Duane Reade chain and the independent Minooka Pharmacy in Minooka, Ill. For the first time, the American Cancer Society is considering including Alra, a 20-year-old skin-care line, in its catalog, which is mailed to 1.2 million people.

As far as cancer side effects go, far greater attention has been paid to hair loss, fatigue and nausea than to the burns caused by radiation and dry skin caused by chemotherapy. But the tide is starting to turn. Northwestern University opened the Cancer Skin Care Program, one of the first centers of its kind, in 2006.

And oncologists and dermatologists are giving greater consideration to dermatologic issues, in part because new cancer-fighting drugs called targeted therapies can cause rashes so severe that some patients threaten to drop out if they are left untreated.

“There are more drugs that cause skin issues nowadays,” said Dr. David Decker, an oncologist at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. “Radiation has always caused problems, but there are new drugs that cause issues, so skincare has become more of a focus.”

That has created an opportunity for makers of cancer-specific balms to grab the attention of doctors who previously might have dismissed them. Lindi Skin has nine sales representatives to hand out samples to oncologists (and plans to add three more this year). Jean Soulios of Beverly, Mass., who has had breast cancer, distributes samples of her Jeans Cream, an aloe-and-vitamin-E balm for skin irritated by radiation or chemotherapy, to about 20 hospitals. (It is also now sold in about 75 stores.)

“Addressing skin care is not unreasonable,” said Dr. David F. Horne, an assistant clinical professor of dermatology at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell. “The patient may have a tumor in their lung but the changes they’re seeing are in their skin.”

Some oncologists don’t wait until a rash or blotches develop. Instead, early in treatment, they recommend soothing body washes and creams to patients. For instance, Dr. David I. Rosenthal, the director of head and neck radiation research at M. D, Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, gives his patients samples of Lindi Skin Cooler Rolls and body lotion.

“It is my impression that these skin conditions that are cancer-treatment-related are neglected,” said Dr. Rosenthal, who sits on Lindi Skin’s medical advisory board but is not paid by the company. “They can cause discomfort for the patient and should be addressed proactively.”

Still, there’s no proof that any of the products designed for cancer patients calm or heal skin irritated by radiation or chemotherapy any better than over-the-counter products like Cetaphil or CeraVe, according to the oncologists, dermatologists and oncology nurses interviewed for this article. Even Dr. Rosenthal said that “there’s not been any scientific study to show that these products are superior in any way.”

Mimi Bartholomay, an oncology clinical nurse specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, where the gift shop sells Lindi Skin and Jeans Cream, said she worries that cancer patients will think the hospital endorses them. (It doesn’t.)

“They’re marketing to a vulnerable population,” she said. “Cancer patients go through so many body image concerns and changes. They get scars. Their skin changes from radiation. Sometimes the chemotherapy causes rashes. Their hair can fall out. They’re going to try anything to look and feel better.”

Ms. Snider of Lindi Skin doesn’t think she’s taking advantage of cancer patients. “Most people, if they have a special need, they’re willing to buy a product,” she said. “It’s sort of like saying, ‘Why isn’t chemo free?’ Doctors who administer chemo make money on that. We need to afford to make these products. I’m trying to fill a need.”

Jeans Cream and Lindi Skin are packaged in a way that they wouldn’t seem out of place at Bloomingdale’s, but they also sell for department-store prices. Lindi’s body wash costs $20 for 8 ounces, and its face serum, $40 for 1 ounce. Seven ounces of Jeans Cream is $45.

Ms. Rosenthal, for one, can’t afford them. “Forty bucks,” she said, “is two co-pays to a doctor or four co-pays for my prescription drugs.” But she did like the Lindi line, finding it “excellent for hydrating my skin. I have a hard time tolerating even naturally scented products, but I have no problem with Lindi’s lavender scent.”

Alra, a three-product line developed by Henry Ott after his wife, Sarah, underwent radiation therapy for breast cancer, is far cheaper, $13 for vitamin-E-and-aloe cream.

Radiation can cause what looks and feels like a sunburn on the area the beam passes through to get to cancerous cells, and chemotherapy can make the skin and lips dry and itchy because it indiscriminately tries to damage all fast-growing cells, including skin cells.

Simple wound care should heal skin aggravated by either treatment, the dermatologists interviewed for this article said. They recommended washing the affected area gently, patting it dry, keeping it moist and bacteria-free with a petroleum-jelly product like Aquaphor, and covering it with gauze. “I say to patients, ‘You’ll have just as good as an outcome with standard wound care, rather than expensive products,’ ” said Dr. Horne of NewYork-Presbyterian.

But targeted therapies can be harder on the skin than radiation or chemotherapy, Dr. Decker and Dr. Rosenthal said. They attack tumor cells specifically instead of all cells and can cause very dry skin or an upper- or full-body rash.

Dr. Mario Lacouture, the director of Northwestern’s Cancer Skin Care Program, sometimes treats skin conditions caused by targeted therapies with prescription corticosteroids and antibiotics. He will soon begin a study of over-the-counter products to see which best ameliorate side effects of targeted therapies. (Lindi Skin gave a $65,000 contribution to his research.)

Dianne Dassa, of New York, 66, said that Lindi products helped heal her radiation burn and her psyche. While being treated for breast cancer, she used the Lindi body wash and serum, preferring them to the body wash and Aquaphor her radiologist suggested. When they arrived, Ms. Dassa said, “They were so beautifully packaged, I felt like I was getting a gift.”
310 2008-07-10 “I’ve concluded that the contract cannot be awarded at present,” said Mr. Gates, citing the “significant issues” pointed out by the G.A.O.

The contract, in its first phase alone, would provide for 179 aerial refueling tankers to replace the Air Force’s aging fleet, which is being strained by wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and has planes that date to the Eisenhower era. The Northrop team was offering a variation of its A330 plane, while Boeing was offering a modified 767. The tankers are used to refuel military planes while in the sky.

There was no clear winner or loser between the two companies in Mr. Gates’s decision. But it was another blow to the Air Force, whose ability to manage huge weapons-buying programs has been questioned. Two of its top officials were recently fired because of security breaches.

“Clearly, this is a vote of no confidence in the Air Force,” said Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a Washington research group.

Howard Rubel, an analyst at Jeffries & Company, said that the announcement meant “that both companies will have an equal opportunity to abuse each other for a while longer.” Mr. Rubel added that until the Pentagon issued a modified request for proposals from the two companies, it would be difficult to determine which might have an edge.

The Pentagon will not reopen the entire contracting process, but will focus on eight problem areas cited in the G.A.O. report, and Mr. Gates said the final decision might be made by December.

But many analysts said that timetable might be overly ambitious. Even Mr. Young, the acquisitions under secretary, said on Wednesday that the decision-making schedule might slip.

Both Boeing and Northrop issued news releases praising Mr. Gates’s action. The House Armed Services Air and Land Forces Subcommittee is to begin hearings into the tanker contract and the G.A.O. report on Thursday.

“We welcome the decision by Defense Secretary Robert Gates not to proceed with the contract award to Northrop Grumman/EADS and to reopen the KC-X tanker competitions,” said Boeing, referring to the designation it has given its airplane.

Doug Kennett, a spokesman for Boeing, also said that his company was open to substituting a 777 for its 767 offering, depending on what the new bidding proposal would require.

On the other side, Northrop said that it applauded Mr. Gates’s decision and added that “the United States Air Force has already picked the best tanker, and we are confident that it will do so again.” Ralph D. Crosby Jr., chief executive of EADS North America, said the company welcomed the rebidding and said it was “ready and anxious to get back to work” on the project.

One of the central players in the tanker contract is Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.

Several years ago, Mr. McCain stopped the contract from being granted to Boeing, after the terms of a tanker lease arrangement between the Air Force and Boeing were revealed. Some have seen him as favoring a European company over an American one, an impression was not eased by the fact that several of his top campaign advisers had worked as lobbyists for Airbus.

In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. McCain praised Mr. Gates’s decision as a step toward “full and open competition.”

European military suppliers have long thought that the Pentagon has encouraged other nations to buy American military goods, while closing the door to purchases of military equipment made by European suppliers.

And European countries thought the Airbus proposal finally gave them a shot at landing a major Pentagon contract, especially after both the British and Australian air forces picked the Airbus tanker.

In London, Alexandra Ashbourne, who heads Ashbourne Strategic Consulting, an aerospace analysis firm, said Mr. Gates’s decision “was probably the best of all possible outcomes,” but added that EADS felt “very raw” over the whole process, given the amount of effort and expense that went in to putting in a bid, only to see it slip away.

Ms. Ashbourne added that one of the big concerns among Europeans was that the tanker contract would get caught up in the presidential race.

“On this side of the Atlantic,” she said, “there is concern that politics will be allowed to take hold and that Congress will get involved. Then you have pork barrel politics and it is an election year. The timing is very bad.”

In Congress, “Buy America” sentiment fueled outrage at the initial selection of Airbus. But that was also tempered by a fierce political battle on behalf of the European supplier by the delegations of the States of Alabama and Mississippi, where EADS promised to build most of the tankers and create jobs.

Members of Congress on both sides of the issue released statements on Wednesday praising Mr. Gates, but promoting their own positions. Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican who is an outspoken advocate for Boeing, said that he wanted to make sure the “mistakes made in the original competition are not repeated.”

Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who is in the Airbus camp, said that the Pentagon rebid decision was “an appropriate solution.”
311 2008-07-10 HELPING THE UNINSURED Many states and Congress are beginning to address ways to ease the high costs of health insurance for small-business owners and their workers.      BOEING BACK IN PLAY The Department of Defense said it would reopen a $35 bill...
312 2008-07-10 When Apple opens its online App Store for iPhone software on Thursday, Steven P. Jobs will be making an attempt to dominate the next generation of computing as it moves toward Internet-connected mobile devices.      The store, which will offer mor...
313 2008-07-11 While the ongoing back-and-forth between Yahoo and Microsoft is the talk of Herb Allen’s annual mogul retreat in Sun Valley, Yahoo chief Jerry Yang is reportedly less than sanguine on a sitdown with his suitors. Reuters reported that when asked ...
314 2008-07-11 Nashville and the N.H.L. say Alexander Radulov is still a Predator. The K.H.L. says he jumped his contract to go to Ufa before Thursday's international protocol was signed. So much for the N.H.L.-K.H.L. "truce."...
315 2008-07-11 New cartoons take actual comic books and give them a 3D feel.
316 2008-07-11 Results from the Golden League athletics meet in Rome....
317 2008-07-11 Milton Bradley and Josh Hamilton tell the Times's Alan Schwarz how they feel about coming to New York to play in the 2008 All-Star Game together.
318 2008-07-11 China's dogs are in luck, at least through the Olympics....
319 2008-07-11 The presidential campaigns scramble to offer more details about their big-donor/bundler information for financing their efforts....
320 2008-07-11 How could any viewer say no to this face? (CBS) CBS's new reality series, "Greatest American Dog," got off to a decent start in the ratings on Thursday, leading most competitors on the night with 9.5 million viewers at 8 p.m., according to Nielsen...
321 2008-07-11 From Julia Werdigier, DealBook's colleague in London: London's hedge fund managers and stockbrokers have more than their bonuses to worry about: many are now fretting about their marriages, according to a new study. In a survey of 100 analysts, st...
322 2008-07-11 The news that Iran apparently altered a photo of a missile test, to add a fourth missile, has touched off Photoshop mockery across the Web (compiled by wired.com). There's plenty more if you just click the links below: From Fark. From Suitably Fli...
323 2008-07-11 I had an amusing and enlightening e-mail exchange tonight with a reader. It went like this: Dear David: I enjoyed your iPhone review, as with all your other reviews. However, you and other reviewers have made a basic Econ 101 mistake when comparin...
324 2008-07-11 The Los Angeles Times has an important story about John McCain and the way he mistreated his first wife, Carol in 1979 and 1980. It's obviously a long time ago, and McCain himself has acknowledged his immaturity at the time, but for a candidate ru...
325 2008-07-11 DuPont shareholders may be having a bad case of deal envy Friday morning. The largest chemical company in the United States, DuPont watched Thursday as the nation's No. 2, Dow Chemical, acquired Philadelphia-based rival Rohm and Haas for a whoppin...
326 2008-07-11 Add sugar and spice to puréed pineapple, and, with the aid of an ice cream machine, it produces a four-star sorbet....
327 2008-07-11 Web pranksters take a manipulated image to an absurd level for the sake of comedy....
328 2008-07-11 The one-minute television spot will air in key Western states with high immigrant populations....
329 2008-07-11 The chief executive of General Motors did his best to strike down rumors on Thursday that the automaker might seek bankruptcy protection soon. In his first comments on G.M.'s finances since the company's stock hit a 50-year low, the chief executiv...
330 2008-07-11 Terry Semel's attempt to buy management and marketing firm IMG is apparently over before it even began, The New York Post reported. Mr. Semel had approached Theodore J. Forstmann and his buyout firm Forstmann Little & Company with a deal to acquir...
331 2008-07-11 Switzerland's Federal Banking Commission has outlined plans to impose higher capital requirements on UBS and Credit Suisse in the wake of their massive losses in the credit crisis, The Financial Times reported. In a letter, the Swiss regulator des...
332 2008-07-11 Midwest Air Group has set Friday as a deadline to reach new deals with its union pilots and crew as it scrambles to avoid a Chapter 11 filing, Dealscape reported. The airline was sold last summer to a TPG-led consortium to fend off a hostile bid b...
333 2008-07-11 General Electric has agreed to sell its Japanese consumer-finance business to Shinsei Bank for 580 billion yen ($5.4 billion), according to reports citing undisclosed sources. Bidding for the Lake personal-loan unit of G.E.'s Japanese business had...
334 2008-07-11 June has been a cruel month for two high-profile hedge funds. New York-based Prentice Capital Management and London-based Tosca Holdings have each suffered steep declines, The Wall Street Journal reported. Prentice, started in May 2005 with about ...
335 2008-07-11 Citigroup will sell its German retail business to France's Credit Mutuel for $7.7 billion, it said on Friday, part of a global reorganization of the U.S. bank. Citi in Germany, which makes most of its money from loans for everything from televisio...
336 2008-07-11 National Australia Bank is in talks with ABN Amro to acquire its Australian and New Zealand wholesale and investment banking businesses in what would be a 1 billion Australian dollar ($962 million) deal, The Financial Times reported. A deal betwee...
337 2008-07-11 Italy's UniCredit has named Andreas Bohn, Bernhard Brinker and Piergiorgio Peluso as co-heads of investment banking, Bloomberg reported. Mr. Bohn will be responsible for financing and principal investments, while Mr. Peluso will look after investm...
338 2008-07-11 Britain's Helphire is set to raise $89.1 million through a placing and open offer. The vehicle rental and accident management group has also announced the retirement of chief executive Mark Jackson, The Financial Times reported. Cenkos Securities ...
339 2008-07-11 It was bound to happen. From Medea to Becky Sharp, from “Heathers” and “Mean Girls” to Blair Waldorf of “Gossip Girl,” alpha females have had a long and glorious run. But too much attention — and cautionary parental guides — poisoned the fun. Now there is a reality competition whose sole object is to make mean girls nice.

“Queen Bees,” which begins Friday on the N, is a contest like “America’s Next Top Model,” only the purpose is to see who can achieve inner beauty. The contestants are seven young women, spoiled, back-stabbing and conceited, who think they are competing to see who is the biggest diva. Actually, they have been nominated by fed-up friends and family members for a personality makeover: the girl who is most changed wins $25,000.

There is a lot of material to work with, because mean girls say the darnedest things. “I do have ugly friends,” Brittany, 20, a slender, blond name-dropper from Jacksonville, Fla., says. “But I don’t go out with them at night.” Not surprisingly, she was recommended by a childhood friend.

Technically, mean girls are at their most lethal at a much younger age; when Rosalind Wiseman published “Queen Bees and Wannabes: Helping Your Daughter Survive Cliques, Gossip, Boyfriends and other Realities of Adolescence,” in 2002, she interviewed sixth and seventh graders. But the producers may have worried about the kind of criticism that plagued the CBS reality show “Kid Nation,” and sought out women at the age of consent.

They talk the mean-girl talk (“As long as my hair looks good, my confidence is at an extreme level,” says Camille, 18, of Trophy Club, Tex.), but they break just like little girls. By the end of the first episode, which includes a beauty contest with blind judges and encounter sessions led by the likes of Dr. Michelle Callahan (of “The Tyra Banks Show”) and the host, Yoanna House (of “America’s Next Top Model”), several girls have sniffled and even apologized for bad behavior. Worse, a few seem to mean it.

“Queen Bees” has a worn, cut-rate feel to it; even the house where the contestants rub one another the wrong way has a seedy look, and there are no real surprises left to this kind of stylized reality show. But some moments are priceless. When asked by a judge at the beauty contest to name the person she would most like to meet, Camille replies, “I would meet Einstein because he never washed his hair, and nobody ever listened to him when he talked about a lot of important things that the military could have used in the United States.”
340 2008-07-11 Sylvester Croom took the Bulldogs to a bowl game in 2007 and got a contract extension for his efforts. The question now becomes, can he build upon last year's success?...
341 2008-07-11 A “baggy compendium” of artworks made of or about sand at the Parrish Art Museum. Ken Johnson reviews....
342 2008-07-11 The father of a Queens-born Army sergeant who had been missing in Iraq for more than a year said on Thursday his son’s body had been found.

The sergeant, Alex Ramón Jimenez, was one of three members of the 2nd Brigade of the 10th Mountain Division kidnapped during an ambush in May 2007. His father, Andy Jimenez of Lawrence, Mass., said uniformed military officials came to his home on Thursday to tell him the body had been discovered.

“I have lost all hope. Oh, my God. I have lost all hope,” Mr. Jimenez said upon learning his son’s fate, according to The Eagle-Tribune of Lawrence.

Pfc. Byron Fouty of Waterford, Mich., and Pfc. Joseph Anzack Jr. of Torrance, Calif., also were kidnapped. Private Anzack’s body was found in the Euphrates River last year.

Sergeant Jimenez’s mother, Maria del Rosario Duran, who lives in Corona, Queens, told the Massachusetts paper that her “heart sunk” when she got the news.

“The worry of not knowing his whereabouts was bad,” she said, “but now that we know, the pain of losing my son will never end.”

Ms. Duran said she received a call from her sister saying that military officers were waiting at her house. She came home and got the news.
343 2008-07-11 In the last few years, the minimum wage in New York State has increased almost 40 percent, while the median pay for hourly workers has risen much more slowly, not even keeping pace with inflation, according to a report released Thursday by the federal Department of Labor.

The median wage paid to the 4.1 million hourly workers in the state was $12.03 last year, meaning that more than two million New Yorkers earned less than that, the report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed. That was about equal to the median national hourly wage of $11.95 — about $25,000 a year for a 40-hour work week.

“It used to be that median wages were higher in New York,” said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute in Manhattan. The long, steep decline of the state’s manufacturing base narrowed the gap, Mr. Parrott said, adding that “a lot of our job growth has been at the low end of the wage spectrum.”

At the state’s minimum wage of $7.15 an hour, a full-time worker would earn less than $15,000 a year. Still, that is much more than the state’s lowest-paid workers made before the Legislature raised the minimum wage in three steps starting in 2005. Before then, the state minimum wage was the same as the federal, $5.15 an hour.

The state’s minimum wage rose to $6 an hour on Jan. 1, 2005, then to $6.75 a year later and to $7.15 on Jan. 1, 2007. Those increases amounted to a 39 percent raise in 24 months.
344 2008-07-11 Mr. McCain has dismissed any suggestion that he does not meet the citizenship test.

In April, the Senate approved a nonbinding resolution declaring that Mr. McCain is eligible to be president. Its sponsors said the nation’s founders would have never intended to deny the presidency to the offspring of military personnel stationed out of the country.

A lawsuit challenging Mr. McCain’s qualifications is pending in the Federal District Court in Concord, N.H.

There are, Professor Chin argued in his analysis, only two ways to become a natural-born citizen. One, specified in the Constitution, is to be born in the United States. The other way is to be covered by a law enacted by Congress at the time of one’s birth.

Professor Chin wrote that simply being born in the Canal Zone did not satisfy the 14th Amendment, which says that “all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States.”

A series of early-20th-century decisions known as the Insular Cases, he wrote, ruled that unincorporated territories acquired by the United States were not part of the nation for constitutional purposes. The Insular Cases did not directly address the Canal Zone. But the zone was generally considered an unincorporated territory before it was returned to Panama in 1999, and some people born in the Canal Zone when it was under American jurisdiction have been deported from the United States or convicted of being here illegally.

The second way Mr. McCain could have, and ultimately did, become a citizen was by statute, Professor Chin wrote. In Rogers v. Bellei in 1971, the Supreme Court said Congress had broad authority to decide whether and when children born to American citizens abroad are citizens.

At the time of Mr. McCain’s birth, the relevant law granted citizenship to any child born to an American parent “out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States.” Professor Chin said the term “limits and jurisdiction” left a crucial gap. The Canal Zone was beyond the limits of the United States but not beyond its jurisdiction, and thus the law did not apply to Mr. McCain.

In 1937, Congress addressed the problem, enacting a law that granted citizenship to people born in the Canal Zone after 1904. That made Mr. McCain a citizen, but not one who was naturally born, Professor Chin said, because the citizenship was conferred after his birth.

In his paper and in an interview, Professor Chin, a registered Democrat, said he had no political motive in raising the question.

In March, Laurence H. Tribe, a law professor at Harvard and an adviser to Senator Barack Obama, prepared a memorandum on these questions with Theodore B. Olson, a former solicitor general in the Bush administration. The memorandum concluded that Mr. McCain is a natural-born citizen based on the place of his birth, the citizenship of his parents and their service to the country.

In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Olson, whose firm represents Mr. McCain in the New Hampshire lawsuit, said Congress could not have intended to leave the gap described by Professor Chin. The 1937 law, Mr. Olson said, was not a fix but a way to clarify what Congress had meant all along.

Professor Tribe agreed. Reading the “limits and jurisdiction” clause as Professor Chin does, Professor Tribe said, “is to attribute a crazy design to Congress” that “would create an irrational gap.”

Brian Rogers, a McCain spokesman, said the campaign concurred and was confident Mr. McCain is eligible to serve.

In the motion to dismiss the New Hampshire suit, Mr. McCain’s lawyers said an individual citizen like the plaintiff, a Nashua man named Fred Hollander, lacks proof of direct injury and cannot sue.

Daniel P. Tokaji, an election law expert at Ohio State University, agreed. “It is awfully unlikely that a federal court would say that an individual voter has standing,” he said. “It is questionable whether anyone would have standing to raise that claim. You’d have to think a federal court would look for every possible way to avoid deciding the issue.”
345 2008-07-11 “The person here in Michigan that just lost his job isn’t suffering a mental recession,” he told reporters after a town-hall-style meeting at a factory in this city west of Detroit.

And when he was asked whether Mr. Gramm — McCain campaign co-chairman, UBS Investment Bank vice chairman and former economics professor — might serve as treasury secretary in a McCain administration, the candidate replied with a flash of his sometimes tart humor.

“I think Senator Gramm would be in serious consideration for ambassador to Belarus,” he said, “although I’m not sure the citizens of Minsk would welcome that.”

Mr. McCain has been spending the week in Rust Belt states like Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan pushing his economic proposals and trying to show a grasp of workers’ financial struggles.

During the gathering here Thursday, held at Bayloff Stamped Products, which provides metal components to car manufacturers, he tried to fend off the skepticism of some Michigan workers about his support for free trade and said more than half a dozen times that people were “hurting.”

“America is hurting today,” he said. “Michigan is hurting today. The automotive industry is hurting. And we’ve got big problems, and we’ve got big challenges.”

Questioned about manufacturers’ moving their plants elsewhere because of free trade, he replied, “I have to tell you — and I know that it’s not popular — I do believe in the overall benefits of free trade.”

In recent months Mr. McCain has recalibrated the way he talks about the economy, often noting that it does not matter whether the technical definition of a recession has been met, given that so many people feel as if they are in one. The tone is in contrast with the one he struck during the primaries, when he sometimes placed more emphasis on optimism.

His struggle to find a balance was on vivid display at a Republican debate in January, when he was asked whether the country was better off now than it was eight years ago.

“I think you could argue that Americans over all are better off,” he replied, “because we have had a pretty good, prosperous time with low unemployment and low inflation, and a lot of good things have happened, a lot of jobs have been created.” Then he added: “But let’s have some straight talk. Things are tough right now.”

At the factory gathering Thursday, Mr. McCain repeated a statement that was used against him to great effect in the Michigan primary, which he lost to Mitt Romney.

“I’ll look at you in the eye again and I’ll tell you that there are some jobs that won’t come back,” he said.

But, the optimism hardly out of reach, he added that the lost jobs would be replaced with new ones to create more environmentally friendly technologies and other innovations.

“I have to tell you that the innovation and the technology and the entrepreneurship of the world still lies in the United States of America,” he said. “Every technological advance we’ve made in the 21st century and throughout the 20th has come from the United States of America.”
346 2008-07-11 There, at a corner table underneath neon Bud Light signage, Deitchler tried to pinpoint where this crazy journey began. Best he can figure, it started in Brandon Paulson’s driveway.

Paulson won a Greco-Roman silver medal at the 1996 Olympics. He retired in 2004 after an epic triple-overtime loss at the Olympic trials, a defeat so painful he thought about it every day for years.

The match is still saved on his TiVo. The ending never changes: Paulson, resting on his knees, drenched in sweat, hands covering the agony written on his face.

“This is a wrestler’s classic, one for the ages,” the announcer says. “This will be tough on Brandon Paulson.”

After the loss, Paulson told reporters everything happened for a reason. When he returned to Minnesota, he found the Anoka High wrestling coach, Todd Springer, waiting in his driveway. He wanted to discuss a ninth grader named Jake Deitchler.

Soon, Paulson and Deitchler began working out. Paulson gave Deitchler his telephone number and told him to call anytime. Big mistake.

Deitchler called the next day, and the day after that, and most days for weeks and months and years. One Sunday, the workout stalker called six times.

“It was just one of those matches,” said Jason Deitchler, Jake’s father. “You can’t explain it. It was divine.”

Paulson and Deitchler are cut from the same competitive cloth. They compete in everything — foosball, wrestling, sauna sit-offs. During one practice session, the teacher tore his anterior cruciate ligament wrestling the student.

The more Paulson pushed, the more Deitchler responded. He stayed after practice every day, arrived at school before sunrise and left after sunset, won three state championships and more matches — 201, including the last 111 straight — than anyone in school history.

Only Deitchler did not make small gains. He made exponential leaps. He learned moves one day and used them in matches the next. Even before the Olympic trials.

“I thought of something on Monday,” Paulson said. “I showed him on Tuesday, and he beat the best guy in the world at his weight class with it later that week. That’s not normal. That’s not even coaching.”

Asked for a comparison, the talkative Paulson suddenly was silent. Told the progress sounds more typical of a prodigal violinist, he nodded.

“There’s nobody to compare him to in wrestling,” Paulson said. “He progressed faster than anybody I’ve ever seen.”

That statement means something in Anoka, a suburb north of Minneapolis that locals call the Halloween Capital of the World. Deitchler also wrestles for the Minnesota Storm, coached by Dan Chandler, a three-time Olympian and Anoka High graduate. The school has sent at least one Greco-Roman wrestler to every Olympics since 1968.

Deitchler did not end up at Anoka High by accident. Jason Deitchler had known his son would follow in the family wrestling tradition since the first weekend of his life, when Jake was born and Jason left for a college wrestling tournament the next day.

Dad became an all-American at Mayville State in North Dakota, and because Jake was born during his freshman year, teammates became extended family, a wrestling team that raised a wrestler.

Jason Deitchler moved the family to Minnesota. Eventually, he moved again, to Anoka, even though the house there cost an extra $70,000.

He built his son a wrestling room in the basement of their three-story home, complete with a mat, a dummy and the sauna he installed for Jake on his 16th birthday. They talked wrestling every morning, every meal, every night.

Despite the wrestle-mania upbringing, Deitchler waited until age 12 before adding the Olympics to his goals. Overhearing that, Paulson rolled his eyes and noted that was only six years ago.

Paulson always had an infatuation with the Olympics, religiously watching the winter and summer games. At Deitchler’s graduation party, it was Paulson who gave him the Olympic flag. During the two weeks before the trials, Deitchler found himself drawn to his bedroom, where he sat on the bed and stared obsessively at the flag.

In the Olympic trials in Las Vegas, Deitchler lost the first period of every match during qualifying. He beat the celebrated Harry Lester, a two-time world bronze medalist and a medal favorite in Beijing, in the 145.5-pound division with a move Paulson taught him earlier that week. He celebrated like any 18-year-old would — dinner at the Hard Rock, a 32-ounce Mountain Dew and this gem: “I’m off to the arcade now,” he quipped to reporters.

Folks in wrestling described the upset as one of the sport’s greatest.

People told Paulson the last match they saw that was that exciting was his triple-overtime loss in 2004. This time, the memory hurt a little less.

He thought back to his quotation. Everything happens for a reason.

“It was the ultimate thrill of victory, following the ultimate agony of defeat,” Paulson said. “That’s what I went through the last four years.”

After missing his prom and finishing classes two months early, Deitchler wants to retain some semblance of a normal life. He plans on wrestling next season at Minnesota, again following in Paulson’s footsteps. His goals are taped to the wall leading to the basement.

He taps them as he walks downstairs. National champion. Tap. World champion. Tap. Olympic champion. Tap.

Until then, he must confront the whirlwind. One day, Deitchler is at his graduation party with 200 friends, picture montages and medals lining the garage, family telling him to do his laundry before leaving for Las Vegas. The next, he is toppling wrestlers he once idolized. Then Manhattan, where he asked his mother, Racheal, if he could get a tattoo of the Olympic rings.

“Absolutely not, Jacob,” came the stern reply.
347 2008-07-11 DETROIT — The chief executive of General Motors did his best to strike down rumors on Thursday that the automaker might seek bankruptcy protection soon.

In his first comments on G.M.’s finances since the company’s stock hit a 50-year low, the chief executive, Rick Wagoner, called speculation on bankruptcy inaccurate and harmful to G.M.’s turnaround prospects.

“Obviously, it would be great if we had less speculation along the lines that we think is quite inaccurate,” Mr. Wagoner said to reporters after a speech to business leaders in Dallas.

G.M.’s shares dropped 6 percent on Thursday, to $9.69, as industry analysts questioned whether the company had enough cash to weather the downturn in vehicle sales.

The company, the largest automaker in the United States, had $23.9 billion in cash at the end of March, but analysts contend that it needs to raise at least $10 billion more to operate through 2009.
348 2008-07-11 Mayor Frank Melton of Jackson, Miss., was indicted Wednesday on federal civil rights charges related to the unannounced demolition of a duplex that he said was a crack house.

In August 2006, Mr. Melton and his two police bodyguards, Michael Recio and Marcus Wright, ordered the occupants out of the house at gunpoint and directed a group of youths to attack the house with sledgehammers, the indictment said. The mayor, who ran for office on an anti-crime platform, himself broke out the windows with a large stick, the indictment said.

In April 2007, Mr. Melton and his bodyguards were acquitted on state felony charges, including burglary and malicious mischief, related to the same event. At the trial, the defendants acknowledged damaging the house but denied any criminal intent. No drugs were found in the house, which was in one of the state capital’s impoverished neighborhoods where the mayor spends much of his time patrolling the streets.

The federal indictment charges the defendants with conspiracy to deprive the duplex owner, Jennifer Sutton, and her tenant, Evans Welch, who is mentally ill, of their right to be free from unlawful search and seizure, as well as charges of official misconduct and the use of firearms in the commission of a violent crime.

Mr. Melton is known for unorthodox tactics like wearing a badge, searching cars and raiding nightclubs. He has claimed to have been a sworn law enforcement official but has never offered proof.

Mr. Melton told a Jackson television station that the indictment, while a distraction, would not change his focus from more important city issues.
349 2008-07-11 Wall Street stumbled through another volatile session but ended with a respectable gain on Thursday after a multibillion-dollar deal in the chemicals sector helped offset concerns about the financial sector and energy costs.

Shares of the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac skidded lower on worries they would be forced to sell more new shares than anticipated to compensate for losses from the housing slump. Several retail banks and investment banks also dropped, particularly Lehman Brothers Holdings.

The decline in financials came after Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. told Congress that Wall Street could not expect the government to bail out the troubled companies.

“For market discipline to effectively constrain risk, financial institutions must be allowed to fail,” Mr. Paulson said.

Meanwhile, crude oil prices rebounded more than $5 higher to more than $141 a barrel.

Though investors found a reason to buy after Dow Chemical’s $15 billion all-cash acquisition of the special chemicals maker Rohm & Haas, they were cautious ahead of quarterly earnings, particularly regarding financial results to be announced next week.
350 2008-07-11 “The prices would go unlimited,” Mr. Badri said during the interview, referring to the effect of a military conflict. “I can’t give you a number.”

Iran has insisted that its nuclear program is for purely peaceful purposes.

Mr. Badri, a former oil executive who has headed the oil industry in Libya and served as deputy prime minister of that country, called for a peaceful solution, and he hinted that an additional conflict in the Middle East besides the continuing conflict in Iraq would be severe and long-lasting.

“If something happened there, nobody would be able to solve it,” he said, referring to a war involving Iran.

He said that current geopolitical tensions were among the main reasons for the high price of oil. He said that a shortfall in refining capacity and a weak dollar were other factors, but he reiterated OPEC’s position that speculation on oil markets probably was the most important one.

He insisted that reserves of oil were plentiful and that worries about scarcity were misplaced.

Supplies from Russia and Norway and other nations outside the 13-member OPEC will keep growing, helped by technologies like turning gas and coal into liquid fuel and extracting oil from tar sands and shale, he said.

Even so, he also sought to assuage concerns about a supply shock, saying that OPEC members, which contribute about 40 percent of daily worldwide production, were already investing $160 billion in new production capacity up to 2012.

But he said investment in future capacity could be frozen, potentially sharpening a dispute with customers over whether sufficient steps were being taken to meet demand.

Steps by the European Union and in the United States to cut dependence on fossil fuels meant that OPEC had no alternative but to take a cautious approach before going ahead with plans to invest up to $540 billion in oil production up to 2020.

“If we don’t see the demand, we are not going to invest,” Mr. Badri said, adding there was doubt over how much money members would invest after 2012. OPEC members “don’t want to spend their money on something they cannot use,” he said.
351 2008-07-11 The Chevron Corporation said Thursday that second-quarter oil output fell to the lowest level since 2005 as record energy prices reduced the company’s share of output in countries like Nigeria and Indonesia.

The company, which is scheduled to report second-quarter results on Aug. 1, said it pumped the equivalent of 2.54 million barrels of crude a day in April and May, compared with 2.63 million a day during the second quarter of 2007.

Production was the lowest since the April-June period of 2005, when Chevron was in negotiations to acquire the Unocal Corporation for $20 billion to gain access to Asian gas fields and exploration prospects in the Gulf of Mexico.

Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., must increase output by 190,000 barrels a day, or 7.5 percent, for the rest of this year to meet its 2008 production target of 2.65 million barrels a day.

Oil pumped from wells outside the United States, which accounts for three-fourths of Chevron’s crude, sold for about $106 a barrel during the second quarter of 2008, up 74 percent from $61 a year earlier, the company said.

Production-sharing contracts with some oil-rich nations reduce Chevron’s share of output as crude prices rise.
352 2008-07-11 Regulators say six or seven other investment firms have orchestrated bailouts that have not been made public.

Money market funds have not experienced such turmoil since 1994, when about 50 of them had to be rescued because of gyrations in interest rates. Even so, with other parts of the financial markets on edge, individuals and big companies are turning to money market fund managers in growing numbers. Assets in such funds soared 35 percent during the last year.

“There is still an awful lot of walking wounded investment money out there,” said Peter Crane, the president of Crane Data, an industry newsletter. “Money funds should be a big beneficiary of that.”

But while investment firms have no legal obligation to ensure the funds do not lose money, money managers worry that such losses would cause investors to flee their companies’ money market funds, and perhaps other funds they manage.

Given the funds’ troubles, the industry is starting to rethink its ways. The Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed rules that would prevent fund managers from relying too heavily on credit ratings agencies.

Money fund managers have ratcheted back their risk appetite after several years of clamoring for higher returns. And along with retail investors, more big companies are turning to professional money fund investors to manage their cash.

The upshot is that the assets of money funds have swollen to a record $3.5 trillion since the credit crisis began last year, according to Investment Company Institute data. That is an increase of about $900 billion, or 35 percent.

Money funds have long been considered one of the safest places for ordinary investors to park their cash. But in recent years, they strayed from their roots.

Some money market funds are paying the price for chasing high returns in securities like structured investment vehicles when times were good. When the credit markets froze up last summer, structured investment vehicles started to collapse and some stopped making payments on their notes. As a result, the prices of such securities began plummeting.

To prop up their funds, some firms quietly removed the tainted securities. SunTrust, for instance, bought about $1.4 billion of structured investment securities from two of its money funds in December.

Early this year, Morgan Stanley purchased about $773 million of the troubled securities from several of its cash funds. And Dresdner Bank, Janus, Lehman Brothers, Wachovia, U.S. Bancorp and TD Waterhouse each purchased more than $100 million. All told, those companies racked up about $4 billion in losses since they paid more than current market rates.

Other investment firms took a different tack, setting aside their own capital to help plug losses their funds would incur if they sold the troubled assets at current rates. Bank of New York Mellon, HSBC, Northern Trust, SEI Investments and Wells Fargo each agreed to provide financing to cover millions of potential losses.

And some firms did both. Since last fall, Bank of America purchased $1.56 billion of SIV-related securities and provided up to $760 million in financing to protect several Columbia Management cash funds. Legg Mason, meanwhile, has purchased $1 billion of SIV-related holdings and other securities and lined up $1.1 billion to support at least seven money funds it operates.

Alex Roever, a credit analyst at JPMorgan Chase, said that money fund managers were acting more conservatively after all the credit carnage. “I think the damage has been done,” he said.

But Bruce R. Bent, who pioneered money market funds in the 1970s, said many investors had short memories. A year or so from now, he said, money fund managers might once again clamor for higher yields.

“Wall Street will respond by offering the next iteration of the questionable paper,” Mr. Bent said. “If there is demand, we will come.”
353 2008-07-11 Contrary to the assertion in your article, Senator John McCain’s health plan is neither “radical” nor “more fundamental than the universal coverage” plan proposed by Senator Barack Obama. Granted, Mr. McCain’s plan includes improvements to the current tax treatment of health benefits that would aid citizens who now buy insurance individually.

But his proposal to expand state high-risk pools is not a panacea.

It might benefit a relatively small percentage of Americans, whereas Senator Obama’s plan would reach many more people and is more likely to address the key problems of access, cost and quality that plague our health care system.

Unfortunately, Senator McCain’s prescription for system reform is merely a Band-Aid when nothing less than major reconstructive surgery is required.

The writer is a professor of health policy and management and executive director, Boston University Health Policy Institute.
354 2008-07-11 BAGHDAD — Turkey’s prime minister visited Baghdad on Thursday, only the second foreign head of a neighboring state to visit Iraq since the American invasion.

The visit of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan came during a flurry of announcements from Arab countries — including Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait — pledging to refresh relations with Iraq by appointing ambassadors, after withdrawing them during the violence of past years.

Mr. Erdogan’s visit, the first by a Turkish leader in 18 years, followed that of Iran’s president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in March. King Abdullah of Jordan was expected to travel here this week, but the trip was postponed.

Iraq’s relations with Turkey, a NATO member, grew tense last fall, when the Turkish military began a bombing campaign in northern Iraq to strike at Kurdish rebels hiding in the mountains there. Officials in Baghdad condemned the rebel group, known as the Kurdistan Workers Party, but could do little to stop it because it was operating out of the Kurdish north, largely independent from the central government.

The Turkish visit seemed more symbolic than substantive. The prickly issue of the Kurdish fighters on Iraqi soil was not directly addressed in the talks. Still, the fact that it happened at all seemed to indicate an attempt at repairing relations after the Turkish bombing campaign, and subsequent military raid.
355 2008-07-11 On Wednesday, oil prices had seesawed before settling a penny higher at $136.05, ending two days of sharp declines that left prices well below last Thursday’s record trading high of $145.85 a barrel.

The secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said Thursday that the group will not be able to replace any shortfalls if Iran is attacked and takes its crude supplies off the market. Iran has control over the Strait of Hormuz, a passageway that handles about 40 percent of the world’s tanker traffic.

Meanwhile, attacks on Nigerian oil facilities could again disrupt supplies in that oil-rich region. On Thursday, Nigeria’s main militant group vowed to resume attacks because of Britain’s recent pledge to back the government in the conflict there. Attacks by the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta over the past two years have already slashed the country’s normal daily oil output by a quarter.

Crude has reached a confounding point in its multi-year surge.

Supply worries certainly abound, and the value of the United States dollar, a major factor in oil’s trek upward, remains weak against other currencies. But while investors don’t want to lose out on another price increase, they are also seeing reasons — most notably, the flagging United States economy — to believe that oil might be peaking.

“Here in the United States, airplanes are being grounded. Travel has definitely changed. People are looking at hybrids,” said James Cordier, president of Tampa, Fla.-based trading firms Liberty Trading Group and OptionSellers.com.

“It’s been about a three- or four-year bull market, and anyone who has called a peak in this market has ended up with a red face,” he said, but “it appears that demand destruction is at a level where we might have seen the high in oil prices.”

The International Energy Agency on Thursday raised its forecast slightly for global oil demand this year to 1 percent growth from 0.9 percent growth. But the Paris-based watchdog said that demand growth in developing countries is offsetting contracting demand in developed countries.

“The contraction in demand is expected to be particularly marked in North America, given the weakness of the U.S. economy and high oil prices,” the agency said.

Heating oil and diesel fuel prices, in particularly, have been rising due to increased demand in emerging markets. On the Nymex on Thursday, heating oil futures rose 18.58 cents to settle at $4.0374 a gallon.

High pump prices for gasoline, however, have been taking their toll on United States consumers. The Energy Department reported Wednesday that domestic demand for gasoline over the four weeks that ended July 4 was 2.1 percent lower than a year earlier, at about 9.3 million barrels a day.

“I don’t think we’re going to imminently fall out of bed here,” said Linda Rafield, senior oil analyst at Platts, the energy research arm of McGraw-Hill Companies, referring to crude-oil prices. “But I’m finding it difficult to justify prices at much higher levels.”

The average roadside price for gasoline on Thursday stood at $4.104 a gallon — just a hair below the record $4.108 hit Monday, according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express.

On the Nymex, gasoline futures added 13.01 cents to settle at $3.5109 a gallon.

Natural gas futures on the Nymex rose by 29.4 cents to settle at $12.30 per 1,000 cubic feet. The Energy Department said Thursday that natural gas stored in the United States increased last week but remains 3.1 percent below the five-year average for this time of year.
356 2008-07-11 “It’s not easy to talk about things that are still hurting. And probably it will hurt all my life, I don’t know. The only thing I’ve settled in my mind is that I want to forgive, and forgiveness comes with forgetting. So I have to do two things. I have to forget in order to find peace in my soul, and be able to forgive. But at the same time, once I’ve forgiven and forgotten, I will have to bring back memories. Probably they will be filtered by the time, so they won’t come with all the pain I feel right now.”

Probably, too, she said, she would do so with professional help. She recognized the cruelty within the human animal. “I think we have that animal inside of us, all of us, that’s the reality of how we are made,” she said. “We can be so horrible to the others.” She said first that it was impossible to judge others, then she said, “For me it was like understanding what I couldn’t understand before, how, for example, the Nazis, how this could happen.”

Told about Alan Johnston, the BBC Gaza correspondent who was held hostage for almost four months last year, Ms. Betancourt’s spirits lifted. “I followed all his ordeal, every day,” she said, saying that her “only source of information” was the BBC. “And I heard him when he was released. And when I was hearing his words, I was thinking, this guy, he has gone through what I’ve gone through. He knows perfectly what I’m feeling.”

Three Americans — Marc Gonsalves, Thomas Howes and Keith Stansell — were military contractors working on a Pentagon antidrug contract when their plane crashed in 2003 and they were captured. They were released with Ms. Betancourt and 11 other Colombian hostages.

Asked how the Americans managed, she said that captivity was very difficult for them.

“Only one of them could speak the language,” she said. “They had gone through very hard conditions, and when they were put in the same group as us, they found a way of sharing with others what they thought was only happening to them. The sharing of the, let’s say, the despair, counting the days.”

She always tried to keep her dignity, she said, finding solace and sanity in daily activities, some private, like meditation and prayer, and some collective — “to give yourself stability in a world with no stability.” She said she found some nobility among the hostages and the degradation.

“That’s the magic of all things. You can have the dark side of man but you can also plug yourself to light and be an enormous light to others. And I think that’s what being spiritual means.”

Asked about her rosary, she called it, in humor, “an error.” She said she recalled her father saying the rosary, but could not remember exactly how it worked, how many times she was supposed to pray to the Virgin Mary. “So I thought, in case it’s not 10, maybe 15,” she said, fingering the rosary’s 15 buttons, from a jacket the guerrillas had given her.

God is personal to her, she said. “I know that I talk to him, and that he responds.” People dismiss the miraculous, she said, and “prefer talking about coincidences,” but “what I think about miracles is that it happens all the time to everybody.”

Ms. Betancourt, tired, still has other interviews to give. But her time of publicity is ending, she said, speaking of her children, Lorenzo, 19, and Mélanie, 22, who were with her on Thursday.

“I know that now this is the time to retreat, to be with my family, to find a space for my life,” she said, her voice breaking. “You know, I’m landing like a parachute in the life of others. They have their own lives, their daily activities. And I don’t have anything.

“Six days ago I was chained to a tree,” she said. “And I’m now free, and I’m trying to understand how I’m going to live from now on.”
357 2008-07-11 “It’s going to be a challenging environment for Dow,” said Frank Mitsch, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, which downgraded its rating of Dow shares to hold, from buy on Thursday. “It’s a heck of a premium, especially at a time when industry fundamentals are suffering.”

Dow, which is based in Midland, Mich., will also assume $3.5 billion of Rohm & Haas debt.

“There are many jewels out there, and this is one of them,” Andrew N. Liveris, the chairman and chief executive of Dow, said in a conference call. “The bottom line is, this is a powerful new Dow.”

But Wall Street is not so sure.

Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said Thursday that Dow’s A rating has a 50 percent chance of being downgraded in the next three months.

Edward Yang, an analyst for Oppenheimer & Company, said he was “very surprised” by the deal.

“Given the macro environment, they could have bided their time,” he said. “But they must think it’s going to work.” Mr. Yang added that he was particularly surprised by Dow’s “generous concessions.”

For example, Rohm & Haas will continue to do business under its own name and will maintain its headquarters in Philadelphia. Two of the company’s directors will join Dow’s board.

Dow said it would “contribute complementary businesses” to Rohm & Haas in overlapping areas including coatings, biocides and personal care products. As a result, Rohm & Haas said it expected annual revenue of $13 billion, compared with last year’s revenue of $8.9 billion.

Its products include electronics technologies, coatings, and packaging and building materials.

“I have relentlessly talked to our employees, customers and stockholders about the imperative to seek opportunities for transformative change,” said Raj L. Gupta, the chairman and chief executive of Rohm & Haas. “In its 100-year history, Rohm & Haas has constantly reinvented itself, and this agreement offers outstanding potential to do the same yet again.”

The deal, unanimously approved by the boards of both companies, must be approved by Rohm & Haas shareholders.

A spokeswoman at Berkshire Hathaway said the company was unavailable for comment.

Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley also provided debt financing for the transaction.

Shares of Rohm & Haas closed up $28.79, or 64 percent, to $73.62, while shares of Dow were down $1.44, or 4.2 percent, to $32.52.
358 2008-07-11 The shift has hit Detroit’s Big Three much harder. General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler have responded by idling truck plants across North America and temporarily laying off tens of thousands of workers.

But Toyota’s announcement that it will suspend truck production at plants in Texas and Indiana was an unwelcome first for the Japanese company.

“We never have faced anything like this before,” Mike Goss, a Toyota spokesman, said. Sales of Toyota’s full-size Tundra pickup fell 53 percent in June, and the company has bulging inventories of both the pickup and its large Sequoia S.U.V.

So Toyota is taking a page out of Detroit’s playbook by ceasing truck production at its plants in Princeton, Ind., and San Antonio from Aug. 8 until early November. The company will also suspend production of V-8 engines at a factory in Huntsville, Ala.

More than 4,000 employees will be affected, but the workers will be paid and attend training sessions during the shutdowns.

“By using this downturn as an opportunity to develop team members and improve our operations, we hope to emerge even stronger,” said Jim Wiseman, vice president for external affairs for Toyota’s North American manufacturing division.

Toyota introduced its Tundra model last year, at the same time that it opened its San Antonio plant in the heart of Texas pickup country.

The new plant and truck were aimed directly at Detroit’s last stronghold of profits and market share. But in retrospect, Toyota’s timing could hardly have been worse.

“In many ways, Toyota’s strategy hasn’t been any different than G.M. or Ford, which was to build bigger vehicles with bigger engines and bigger profits,” said Maryann Keller, an industry consultant in Greenwich, Conn.

While the Tundra has been favorably compared with Ford’s F-series and G.M.’s Chevrolet Silverado, the advent of $4-a-gallon gas has torpedoed sales in the entire segment.

The drop in sales has already forced Ford to delay the introduction of its F-series this fall.

“No one gets away unscathed,” said James N. Hall, principal at the consulting firm 2953 Analytics in Birmingham, Mich. “When segments go down, you’re going to ride down with them.”

Toyota said it would discontinue building pickups in Indiana next year, and move all of its Tundra production to San Antonio.

The automaker had planned to build its midsize Highlander S.U.V. in a plant under construction in Blue Springs, Miss.

But Toyota said Thursday that it will put Highlander production into the Indiana plant, and devote the new Mississippi facility to the popular Prius. Now built exclusively in Japan, the Prius has been selling out in American showrooms. In June, Prius sales fell 33 percent because dealers simply couldn’t fill orders.

Mr. Goss, the Toyota spokesman, said production plans for the Prius in Mississippi have yet to be completed. But he said an average Toyota assembly line produces 150,000 vehicles a year.

Over all, Toyota’s United States sales have dropped nearly 7 percent this year, and the company has also seen shortfalls in supplies of its Yaris and Corolla small cars.

But analysts said that Toyota’s moves Thursday demonstrate the flexibility and financial resources that make it such a formidable competitor.

“They have piles of cash and are as flexible as any company in the industry,” said Ms. Keller. “This is probably a good thing for Toyota because, in their history, they have shown that adversity is what makes them stronger.”
359 2008-07-11 With individual contributions limited to $2,300, bundlers fuel the fund-raising of presidential campaigns by collecting piles of checks from wealthy acquaintances in a practice that critics say gives them excessive influence. While Mr. Obama has collected unprecedented amounts in small donations over the Internet, he also has a formidable high-dollar fund-raising apparatus.

A number of members of Mr. Obama’s National Finance Committee, who have each committed to raising at least $250,000 for him, were not on the publicly available bundler list on the campaign’s Web site as of Thursday afternoon. Several of the missing members said in interviews that they began raising money for Mr. Obama in early to mid-2007 and already exceeded their $250,000 goal. More than two dozen were added to the list on Thursday evening.

The spotty disclosure records of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, despite repeated entreaties from watchdog groups, compare unfavorably with that of George W. Bush in his two runs for president.

“Obama was saying he was the most transparent, but it wasn’t even on par with Bush and Cheney,” said Alexander Cohen, senior researcher at Public Citizen, a nonpartisan watchdog group that recently sent letters to Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain with seven other organizations calling for them to disclose more information about their donors. Obama campaign officials acknowledged on Thursday that they had fallen behind on their plan to update their list quarterly and that they had not added any names since January. They said about 100 of the names added Thursday should have been put on at the end of this year’s first quarter.

“Keeping track of how much our bundlers have raised is not an exact science, and we will be vigilant in updating those names and figures,” Ben LaBolt, a campaign spokesman, said in a statement. Despite promising early on to disclose bundlers, it was only in April that the McCain campaign released a list of just over 100 top fund-raisers, who had brought in $100,000 or more. Since then, Mr. McCain has added only one name to his list of bundlers, who earn the title Trailblazer if they raise more than $100,000 and Innovator if they exceed $250,000.

It is unclear how many bundlers might be missing from Mr. McCain’s list. He has enjoyed a surge in fund-raising in recent months, after struggling much of last year, and absorbed many former fund-raisers for Mitt Romney, Rudolph W. Giuliani and other Republican rivals who were not on his initial list.

Brian Rogers, a spokesman for Mr. McCain, said on Thursday that staff members were in the process of updating their bundler list. He said he believed it was “reasonable” to expect the campaign would add to it “every couple months.”

“It’ll be updated in the next week or so,” Mr. Rogers said. “This is something Senator McCain believes in. He’s committed to being open and transparent.”

Highlighting his commitment to beating back special interests in politics, Mr. Obama makes a point of declining contributions from lobbyists and political action committees. And he often cites as his signal accomplishment in the Senate his role in the passage of another bill last year that required lobbyists to disclose their bundled donations, a law that has not yet gone into effect. He also posted a list of his top fund-raisers early last year.

At a debate in South Carolina last year, Mr. Obama boasted of his campaign’s level of disclosure and his efforts on the issue in the Senate.

“That’s the kind of leadership that I’ve shown in the Senate,” Mr. Obama said. “That’s the kind of leadership that I showed when I was state legislator. And that’s the kind of leadership that I’ll show as president of the United States.”

Although there is no legal requirement for candidates to disclose their bundlers, in 2000 and 2004, President Bush identified people who had raised at least $100,000 for his campaign, whom he called Pioneers. In 2004, he also listed the names of those who had raised $200,000 or more, calling them Rangers.

In March, after months of requests from The Chicago Sun-Times, the Obama campaign released a roster of nearly 300 people on its National Finance Committee to the newspaper. But the campaign declined this week to release a more recent roster to The New York Times.

Before Thursday evening, however, a dozen Obama fund-raisers confirmed in interviews that they had either surpassed the $50,000 mark for Mr. Obama and were not on the campaign’s bundler list or that they were no longer in the correct category on the Web site, which divides bundlers by those who have raised more than $50,000, $100,000 and $200,000.

“The conspiracy theory is they don’t want you to know everybody,” said Mitchell Berger, a lawyer in Florida who signed on with the Obama campaign early this year but declined to say exactly how much he has raised, except to confirm it was more than $250,000. “The ‘Mitchell-Berger-I’ve-been-in-campaigns’ theory is, this is not the first thing I’d do in the morning if I’m running a campaign, update a finance list,” Mr. Berger said. His name was added to the list on Thursday evening.

In late April, one name was actually removed from the Web site, that of Robert Blackwell Jr., a Chicago businessman. Mr. Blackwell’s name was taken off the list in late April after The Los Angeles Times revealed that he had paid Mr. Obama an $8,000-a-month retainer for legal advice for a technology company he owned and that Mr. Obama had written a letter on Mr. Blackwell’s behalf so another company he owned could get a state grant.

The Obama campaign said they removed Mr. Blackwell’s name after learning that he had not met the $50,000 threshold.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton early last year released a list of her “Hillraisers,” people who had raised $100,000 or more for her. But in November she also stopped updating her list, which had more than 320 names, according to watchdog groups, soon after one of her top bundlers, Norman Hsu, who had raised more than $800,000, was accused of fraud and questionable fund-raising tactics. While the Hsu case cast a harsh spotlight on the often-hidden nature of bundlers in campaigns, it is not at all clear that the Obama campaign was seeking to hide anything in its sporadic updating of its bundling list.

The new names added to the list included Federico Peña, the former transportation secretary, and Edward Lamont, the telecommunications millionaire who ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate in Connecticut. Also added were two of Mr. Obama’s closest friends, Valerie Jarrett and Judson Miner, and Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue magazine.

And the list now includes a pair of Michigan plaintiff’s lawyers, Gerald Acker and Barry Goodman, who had raised money for Mr. Edwards, and Michael Coles, a former top Clinton fund-raiser.
360 2008-07-11 Senator John McCain raised more than $22 million in June, making it his best fund-raising month of the campaign, according to figures released Thursday by an aide.      The amount, slightly more than his May total, left Mr. McCain, Republican of A...
361 2008-07-11 ANIMAL ANTICS WEEKEND How do you prepare a delicious meal for a hungry puma? O.K., very carefully. But the Queens Zoo also has more serious suggestions for big-cat cuisine, which it will offer on Saturday and Sunday, when it invites children to be...
362 2008-07-11 MOUNTING CONCERN Federal officials sought to reassure investors about the financial health of the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies as their stock prices plunged.       The drop in the shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac sent shock ...
363 2008-07-12 Yahoo said on Saturday night that it had rejected a renewed proposal by Microsoft - together with the activist investor Carl C. Icahn - to buy the beleaguered Internet company's search business. The new proposal, made on Friday evening by Mr. Icah...
364 2008-07-12 Ashland said on Friday that it would buy the specialty chemicals maker Hercules in a $2.6 billion cash-and-stock deal that also includes a hefty debt load. Ashland’s stock plummeted after the announcement, and closed at $41.10, down 13.3 percent. The deal includes the assumption of $700 million of Hercules’s debt, sparking worries that the payments would stymie growth. James O’Brien, Ashland’s chief executive, said the transaction would increase the company’s presence in growing markets including China, Eastern Europe and Brazil.
365 2008-07-12 The chairman of Sony, Howard Stringer, left, said the company did not need to lower the price of the PlayStation 3 video game console in response to a possible $50 cut in the Microsoft’s Xbox 360. A price reduction by Microsoft would be evidence that the Xbox 360 was falling behind in the contest for sales, Mr. Stringer said Friday in an interview at the Allen & Company conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. Microsoft may lower the price of the Xbox 360 as soon as this weekend, The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday. Sales of the console in the United States lagged behind Nintendo’s Wii and the PlayStation 3 in the first five months of 2008, according to NPD Group, a market researcher.
366 2008-07-12 The National Human Rights Commission said the armed forces had committed repeated human rights violations, including torture and arbitrary arrest, in the government’s crackdown on drug trafficking. Susana Pedroza de la Llave, one of the commission’s investigators, said that soldiers sometimes detained suspects and tortured them before turning them over to the police. As part of a $400 million American aid package, the State Department must report on the progress the government is making on working with human rights groups.
367 2008-07-12 Back when he was still a free man, Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, used to say that his company had failed because vicious rumors by short sellers had led to a “run on the bank.” Now, it appears, former executives of Bear Stearns are making the same claim — and it’s every bit as bogus.

Yet these self-serving claims are being taken at face value, including by Bryan Burrough, the co-author of one of the greatest business books ever written, “Barbarians at the Gate.” In the August issue of Vanity Fair, Mr. Burrough has written a lengthy article that essentially channels the gripes and paranoia of the Bear Stearns brass.

Not that it’s described that way, of course. Vanity Fair is trumpeting the article as the definite “inside account” of the fall of the Bear, rather than what it really is: an apologia for Bear Stearns management. It’s easy enough to understand why Vanity Fair’s editors would think that: they don’t know any better. But what’s Mr. Burrough’s excuse?

According to the article, the failure of Bear Stearns was caused “not by a criminal indictment or some mammoth quarterly loss but by rumor and innuendo that, as best one can tell, had little basis in fact.” Bear, he says, had plenty of liquidity, yet the incessant rumors that it was suffering a liquidity crisis caused a loss of faith among its customers and near-panic by the federal government. After it was all over, Mr. Burrough writes, a “vague tale” began making the rounds that “a group of hedge fund managers actually celebrated Bear’s collapse at a breakfast that following Saturday morning and planned a similar assault on Lehman the next week.”

What hogwash. And on the part of Bear Stearns, what hypocrisy. To start with, it takes some gall for Bear Stearns to blame short sellers for its failure; there isn’t a firm on the Street that made more money catering to short sellers — that was one of its bread-and-butter businesses. If short sellers were whispering about Bear Stearns, it was because they were worried: the Bear was holding their money!

Secondly, what Bear Stearns management fails to mention is how much of its capital was tied up in subprime sludge. The market began to realize that the firm was, for all intents and purposes, insolvent — there was no way it had enough capital to cover the losses it was going to have to keep taking on its portfolio. Fearful of losing money right along with Bear Stearns, customers began shifting their cash to so-called custodial accounts, meaning that the firm could no longer borrow against it. Once that began to happen, it was all over but the shouting.

James Chanos, the well-known short seller, believes that it is Bear Stearns management that should be held to account by the government and the press — not the short sellers. “I believe the real securities fraud was committed by Bear Stearns insiders,” he said. He appears to know what he’s talking about. In the last days of Bear Stearns’s death spiral, a top executive called Mr. Chanos, who was not shorting the stock but had been a client for years. The executive pleaded with him to go on CNBC and tell the world that all was well at Bear Stearns. “Is it?” Mr. Chanos asked. The man responded that the company was poised to report record earnings. Mr. Chanos declined the request. “They were the ones trafficking in false information,” he said.

This week, when Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, was interviewed on “Charlie Rose,” he was asked about the role of short sellers in bringing down Bear Stearns. “Where there’s smoke, there’s fire,” was Mr. Dimon’s astonishing reply. Every day, when he goes to work, Mr. Dimon has the opportunity to contemplate those toxic subprime securities he inherited from Bear Stearns. Surely, he knows that it was those bad bets that brought the Bear down. Perpetuating the perception that it’s all the fault of those terrible short sellers does a disservice to everyone in the market.

Can someone please explain how Mark Penn still has a job? Let’s review the videotape. Mr. Penn, the co-founder of the polling firm Penn Schoen & Berland Associates, becomes the global chief executive of the public relations giant, Burson-Marsteller, two and a half years ago. (The WPP Group owns both Burson-Marsteller and Penn Schoen.) Without so much as taking a leave of absence, Mr. Penn then promptly abandons his day job to become Hillary Clinton’s chief strategist and pollster. His strategy, ahem, fails.

Along the way, Mr. Penn embarrasses the campaign by holding a secret meeting with the Colombian ambassador to discuss how to help Colombia push a free-trade agreement that Senator Clinton opposes. When this news emerges, it costs Mr. Penn his strategist position with the campaign. It also costs Burson-Marsteller its advisory role with Colombia, which angrily terminates the deal after Mr. Penn publicly apologizes for meeting with the ambassador.

Now he’s returned to a firm deeply resentful of the trouble he has caused it — while his polling firm is still owed $6 million from the Clinton campaign. And just this week, he announced that he was bringing on Karen Hughes, the former Bush aide, to do strategic consulting for companies in crisis. Just what the world needs: strategic consulting from Mark Penn and Karen Hughes.

Harold Burson, Burson-Marsteller’s legendary founder, always believed his firm should stay away from political work. He feared exactly the kind of conflicting loyalties that arose during Mr. Penn’s stint with the Clinton campaign. WPP’s chief executive, Martin Sorrell, appears to be a more tolerant sort.

“Charlie and I are of one mind in how we feel about derivatives and the trading activities that go with them: We view them as time bombs, both for the parties that deal in them and the economic system.”—Warren Buffett, writing in Berkshire Hathaway’s annual report — six years ago. (Charlie refers to his Berkshire sidekick, Charles T. Munger.) Too bad nobody listened while there was still time to do something about it.

In Silicon Valley this week, people were expressing sadness for what’s happened to Yahoo and its chief executive, Jerry Yang. No surprise there: in its heyday, Yahoo was a trailblazing Internet company, as white hot as Google is today, and Mr. Yang was widely viewed as one of the least pretentious billionaires you’ll ever meet. The surprise for me was the equally widespread view that Yahoo’s goose is cooked. In three days, I didn’t hear a single defense of Mr. Yang or Yahoo. Activist investors rarely win proxy fights, but my anecdotal evidence suggests Carl Icahn’s bid to oust the Yahoo board — especially now that he has Microsoft’s explicit backing — has a good chance of succeeding.

Hey, this blogging thing is fun! I think I’ll start one. Actually I just have. You can find it at nytimes.com/executivesuite.
368 2008-07-12 “Greatest American Dog,” a new reality show on CBS, got off to a decent start on Thursday, leading most competitors with 9.5 million viewers, according to Nielsen’s estimates. Although that was less than CBS’s repeat of “CSI” at 9 p.m. (9.8 million), it was enough to compensate for the network’s low ratings at 10 with “Swingtown” (5.4 million). CBS averaged the most viewers but trailed Fox in the 18-to-49 demographic. Fox’s “So You Think You Can Dance” led the night in that group, even as it drew a more modest audience at 9 of 8.7 million total viewers. Fox’s “Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?” drew 7 million viewers but nearly overtook CBS’s dog show to lead the 8 p.m. slot among the 18-to-49 set. NBC was third for the night, as “Last Comic Standing” garnered 5 million viewers from 9 to 11. ABC lagged behind in fourth, with repeats early in the night followed by “Hopkins” at 10 (5.5 million).
369 2008-07-12 The flamenco dancer Soledad Barrio, like a number of great theatrical performers, exists on the cusp of self-parody. The highlight of the new Noche Flamenca show that opened on Thursday night at Theater 80 is her siguiriya solo in the second half. She’s scarcely onstage, pulling her dark raspberry dress up to reveal her feet and calves, when you see all that’s most imitable about her.

There are the sharp turn of the head, as if to look away; the near-frowning heaviness of the brow; the eyes slightly lowered, as if averted from the emotional crisis of any human contact, and as if to express her own fixation on other matters; and the lips are slightly but sternly parted. Her face and head make the same intensely dramatic display of seriousness that also radiates in the way she holds a grandly arching line through her spine and arms, and in the way she then holds this bleak pose, while turning her face to address the stage light.

Everything about this says “tragedy queen.” And yet Ms. Barrio has no sooner hurtled out of the wings for this solo — the program says that she will dance either a soleá or a siguiriya — than she grabs your attention 10 times more powerfully than anything in the rest of the lineup (including herself in Thursday evening’s opening work). She doesn’t warm up with a few exploratory phrases to get herself in the mood (as does her colleague Antonio Jiménez, known as El Chupete, in his soleá), and she doesn’t toy archly with the idea of herself as a performer (as does Alejandro Granados, also in a soleá). The moment her siguiriya begins, her feet let you know that she’s introducing you to a complex rhythmic architecture.

The Noche Flamenca vocalists and guitarists (Manuel Gago and Emilio Florido singing; Jose Valle Fajardo, known as Chuscales, and Salva de María playing) stay a basic pleasure throughout the evening, but they’re at their best when working with Ms. Barrio. There are moments when her heels and the singers’ hand claps are all you hear, and they’re scarcely separable from one another. Sometimes the singers add their heels to the all-percussive soundscape; elsewhere in the solo she works with the two guitarists.

Her vocabulary is largely that of any other flamenco artist. The wrist-circling slow lifts of the arms, the slow strides with knees now bent, now straight, the range of heel-and-toe steps slow or fast, the sudden claps and slaps, a number of statuesque gestures: she takes these and turns them into sheer music drama.

She can shape one long phrase as a crescendo, drawing you into the dynamics of her footwork while still at only a moderate tempo. Or she’ll make something strange of a decrescendo. Her speed winds down until she offers a few soft taps and then just strokes a shoe on the ground to wipe the phrase into nothing.
370 2008-07-12 As an oncologist, I have personally observed no significant benefit from Avastin in my lung and colon cancer patients. It makes one wonder about all the hype and hope created by the drug companies in pursuit of their financial goals.

Drug companies are working in a constant campaign mode with the help of their deep pockets, lobbyists and a medical establishment that is more than eager to accept their money to churn out studies showing “favorable results.” In return, these companies shamelessly sell their drugs at exploitive costs.

These companies understand the system, including the Food and Drug Administration’s approval process, and are using it without regard for whether there is a positive contribution to the health of the population in general and desperate cancer patients in particular.

Somebody needs to take bold steps to bring down the implausible price of these drugs. M. Ashraf Meelu

The life of my wife, who had advanced lung cancer, was extended to 20 months, after receiving a prognosis of five months (she never smoked). We’ll never know if it was Avastin, Tarceva or Taxol that extended her life. But if you ask our 7- or 5-year-old, those few extra months meant everything.

Our children will be stronger for the rest of their lives because of those few extra months she was able to be with them providing ever-lasting lessons and memories. One has to build that value in to the economic ethics equation.

And what about the issue of how cancer research financing (particularly for lung cancer) has not benefited from the states’ tobacco industry settlement? Of the $246 billion to be paid to states from the tobacco industry settlement, none was earmarked for cancer research, and so far most of the money received is being used for non-cancer-related programs. That is a travesty of economic ethics. Dennis Reilly

I’m walking on a bridge to hope. Without Avastin, I wouldn’t have come within sight of the bridge. I’ve fought ovarian cancer for 13 years, since I was 42. The existing drugs no longer work, and the options left have dismal success rates.

I tried Avastin in 2006. It kept me alive for 18 months with great quality of life, until the next drug came along. I’m now participating in a study for a new drug, and my tumors are shrinking.

Yet my success with Avastin isn’t recorded, because there wasn’t an appropriate study when I needed help. I’m thankful that the drug was available and consider myself one of the lucky ones, unlike my 195,000 sisters who have died from ovarian cancer since 1995.

We need more Congressional financing for research, so we can keep moving to better medicines. Maureen Maker

My husband is one of the thousands of people taking Avastin off label, in his case for advanced non-clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. At diagnosis he was expected to live four months; he is still with us two years later.

In those two years he has reached the grand old age of 44, spent precious time with his parents, outlived a beloved dog, eaten Tex-Mex and played poker with friends, seen the rise of the first African-American with a real chance to win the presidency, and sustained me with his love.

Yes, the cost of Avastin is outrageous, and I am deeply grateful to my employer for covering it, but Avastin’s gift of time is priceless. Perhaps we need a national conversation on how to finance biomedical innovation — and hope. Erin Blair

The Avastin story points out the sad fact that both patients and society are victims of the law of diminishing returns: paying more and more for marginal, often questionable results while venture capitalists reap the real returns.

Continuing to finance our health care needs by rewarding highly profitable companies simply assures that people whose interest is making the “big bucks” will be the ones drawn into the medical field, perpetuating a system whose primary beneficiaries increasingly are the suppliers rather than the patients.

We’ve been duped into believing that without outrageous costs and profits, medical progress would grind to a standstill. Let’s hope this will be the next economic bubble to burst. Mark Miller

Your article about Avastin did not mention one very important use for this drug: the treatment of “wet” age-related macular degeneration and other eye diseases complicated by the growth of abnormal blood vessels. This off-label use of Avastin has become the standard of care throughout the world, and the results can only be called miraculous.

I have many patients who would be legally blind but are continuing to live their lives, reading and driving, because of Avastin. In addition, because the dose of Avastin used in the eye is a fraction of that used systemically, the monthly cost for the drug is approximately $50, compared with about $1,800 for Lucentis, a drug with similar properties also manufactured by Genentech. Robert Lopez

The writer, an ophthalmologist, is a clinical professor at Columbia University.
371 2008-07-12 “We will not be hysterical about this, but we will think of retaliatory steps,” he said.

Shipments to Czech oil refineries through the Druzhba pipeline, which ties Siberian fields to the Czech Republic, are declining, the Czech Ministry of Industry and Trade said. It did not say by how much.

It said in a statement that it was “trying to find out what is the cause via the Czech Embassy in Moscow.” The Czech Republic has oil reserves to cover 95 days of demand, it said.

A Czech Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Zuzana Opletalova, declined in a telephone interview to link the reduced oil supply to accepting the antimissile radar. “We don’t want to say if this is related,” Ms. Opletalova said, adding that the ministry hoped for clarification on Monday.

Written questions sent to Russia’s pipeline operator, Transneft, were not answered after working hours on Friday.

In any case, the Czech Republic is far less vulnerable than Ukraine, which was severely hurt two years ago by a cut in Russian natural gas. In the 1990s the Czechs built, at great expense, a transnational oil pipeline from the West to open an alternative to Russian oil and reduce their vulnerability. This pipeline from Germany taps Western European networks supplied from the Middle East and the North Sea.

The Ministry of Industry and Trade said this supply route could fully compensate for even a total Russian shutoff.

The Russian leadership, emboldened by new wealth, is seen by critics as intent on restoring lost spheres of influence in Eastern Europe. Russia is the world’s largest energy exporting nation, if oil and natural gas are counted together. Many Eastern European nations are wholly dependent on Russia for fuel.

This dependence has stirred some fears of a spreading politicization of energy, at a time of soaring prices, akin to the 1973 Arab oil embargo of the United States.

Russian officials have consistently denied exploiting energy as an instrument of foreign policy. The Russian prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, said Friday that Russia would “comply with all our commitments to our foreign partners now, in the midterm and in the long term,” the Interfax news agency reported.

“We will behave responsibly, as usual,” he said.

In January 2006, Gazprom, Russia’s gas company, cut gas supplies to Ukraine for three days, about a year after the protests known as the Orange Revolution ushered in a pro-Western government. The cutoff was ostensibly over a pricing dispute.

Later in 2006, after Lithuanian authorities sold an important oil refinery to a non-Russian company, the Russian pipeline operator closed the pipe to that refinery, blaming technical problems.
372 2008-07-12 Hoping to calm the markets, Mr. Paulson issued a statement that suggested that no government takeover of Fannie and Freddie is imminent.

“Today our primary focus is supporting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their current form as they carry out their important mission,” Mr. Paulson said. “We are maintaining a dialogue with regulators and with the companies.”But the remarks did not appear to placate investors at first, who accelerated the sell-off that began at the market’s open. Investors were running scared across the board, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 200 points during the day and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index down 1.6 percent. But investors stages a rally in the afternoon and recovered some of their losses. The Dow, which fell below 11,000 at one point, finished down 128.48 points, or 1.1 percent, at 11,100.54. The S.& P. 500 closed down 13.90 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,239.49. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 18.77 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,239.08.

Adding to the pain was a $5 surge in the price of oil, which reached another record in overnight trading, touching $147 a barrel, on concern over recent tensions in the . Oil later pulled back and settled at $145.08, up $3.43.

Investment banks and other financial firms led the day’s declines, with , itself the subject of meltdown rumors over the last few weeks, losing 17 percent, to $14.43, down $2.87.

Lehman’s stock has lost 37 percent of its value in the last week alone and is on track for its worst weekly streak since the investment house went public in 1994. The perceived risk that the bank will default on its loans also rose on Friday, as measured by the market for so-called credit default swaps.

Freddie Mac stock has lost 47 percent of its value in the last week alone. Fannie Mae shares have fallen 45 percent during that period. Both companies’ shares are trading at their lowest levels in nearly two decades.

Though shares of Fannie and Freddie are quickly declining, investors appear to be less concerned that the companies will be forced to default on their loans. The perceived risk of buying debt from the companies fell on Friday, as measured by the yield on the 10-year Fannie Mae note, which declined relative to its comparable Treasury bill.

Investors may be feeling more confident that, even if the companies fail, the government would step in and guarantee their outstanding obligations.

Senior Bush administration officials are already considering a plan to have the government take over one or both of the companies and place them in a conservatorship if their problems worsen, according to people briefed about the plan.

Under a conservatorship, shares of Fannie and Freddie would be worth little or nothing, and any losses on mortgages they own or guarantee — which could be staggering — would be paid by taxpayers.

The government officials said that the administration had also considered calling for legislation that would offer an explicit government guarantee on the $5 trillion of debt owned or guaranteed by the companies. But that is a far less attractive option, they said, because it would effectively double the size of the public debt.

The officials involved in the discussions stressed that no action by the administration was imminent and that Fannie and Freddie are not considered to be in a crisis situation. But in recent days, enough concern has built among senior government officials over the health of the giant mortgage finance companies for them to hold a series of meetings and conference calls to discuss contingency plans.
373 2008-07-12 McCROSSAN--Sarah (nee McKeon) , on July 10, 2008. Native of Drumcoura, Ballinamore Co. Leitrim, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late John (''Jack''). Loving mother of Susan, Patricia Sheridan, Margaret Sheridan, John, Bernard, Josephine Simpson, Thom...
374 2008-07-12 ''Greatest American Dog,'' a new reality show on CBS, got off to a decent start on Thursday, leading most competitors with 9.5 million viewers, according to Nielsen's estimates. Although that was less than CBS's repeat of ''CSI'' at 9 p.m. (9.8 mi...
375 2008-07-12 McCRINDLE--Joseph F . We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague even as we take comfort in the joy and fullness of his life. Joe had been an active member of the Board of Trustees since 1986. His uncommon generosity was a natural outgrowth ...
376 2008-07-13 CBS has agreed to broadcast a town-hall-style meeting with the presidential candidates next month....
377 2008-07-13 The Republican candidate stops by his campaign offices in Arizona....
378 2008-07-13 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, says he is ready to help in an Obama administration: "I've committed myself to be a public servant."...
379 2008-07-13 Cherepanov's agent says the Rangers draft choice will stay with Avangard Omsk for another campaign....
380 2008-07-13 Sunday at 9, HBO premieres "Generation Kill," a seven-part mini-series about the invasion of Iraq....
381 2008-07-13 The presumptive Republican nominee talks about his conservatism, among other things, in a wide-ranging interview with The Times....
382 2008-07-13 “I think what Goldwater was able to do is he kind of wrenched the control of the party out of the hands of the quote Eastern establishment of the party and sort of moved it into a long-term more populist kind of and more – well Ronald Reagan was able to turn it into a majority, even though Barry turned it into one of the major landslide defeats in American history. Now those Barry Goldwater followers like me would say it was because the tragedy of Dallas. But still, you know.

I think there’s always been tensions within the Republican Party. There’s a more isolationist wing, a more protectionist wing, there’s been the more internationalist.

Q: Roosevelt wasn’t really a small government person. He saw an active role for government what thing in your record in your record would you say are in a similar vein of using government to do things that…

Mr. McCain: Campaign Finance reform – obviously he was a great reformer -- is one of them. Climate change is another. He was a great environmentalist

Q: You don’t believe in small government, the sort of classic conservative view of minimal government is not one you would necessarily share

Mr. McCain: I guess my view is I believe less governance is best governance and that government should not do what the free enterprise and private enterprise and indidividual entrepreneurship and ¬¬ the states can do. But I also believe there is a role for government. If there is abuses, TR was the first guy to enforce the Sherman anti-trust act against the quote trusts that were controlling the economy of America. Because I believe his quote was unfettered capitalism leads to corruption. So there certainly is a role for government but I want to keep that role minimal. And I want to keep it in the areas where only governments can perform those functions.

Government should take care of those in America who can’t care for themselves. That’s a role of government. It’s not that I’m for no government. It’s that I’m for government carrying out those responsibilities that otherwise can’t be exercised by individuals and the states -- that’s the founding principles of our country -- and at the same time recognizing there’s a role for our government and society to care for those who can’t care for themselves, to make sure there are not abuses of individual rights as well as the rights of groups of people and to defend our nation. And National Security is obviously No. 1.

So I count myself as a conservative Republican, yet I view it to a large degree in the Theodore Roosevelt mold. Now there are some people who are Republicans who think that TR overreached. There certainly were in his time, that’s why they kept telling him to run for other offices. Still I think that history judges him extremely well because of his view that there is a role of government but it should be limited as much as possible

Q: What is your view of the health of the conservative movement today?

Mr. McCain: My view of the Republican Party today – and the conservative movement, whether you are talking about social or economic or other movement I think have been very disappointed. They’ve been disappointed by the out-of-of-control spending. And it has dispirited them. And the tipping pint in our Republican, fiscally conservative base was the bridge to nowhere. In football games there’s the fumble or the field goal. In political campaigns it is the event, in the process of passing legislation or failing. In everything in life there is kind of an event you can point to and say see, that was it. The bridge to nowhere. The bridge to nowhere….

…We let government grow by some 60 percent over the last seven years .We let spending get completely out of control. And our base said, enough. So our Republican base – we have to give them the confidence that we will carry on in the traditions of our party

Q: Ideologically, do you think the conservative movement know where it should be going.

Mr. McCain: I think we are in agreement on most basic issues. I don’t think the problem, the debate within the Republican Party is about our principles.. I think the debate within the Republican Party is how can we best enact those principles into government and policies. In other words, we can say we are for restrained spending but if we vote for an appropriations bill with 9000 pork-barrel projects on it, we’re not doing what we said. I don’t think the Republican Party’s problems is with its principles. I think the Republican Party is its adherences to its principles and beliefs .

Q: Do you consider yourself an evangelical Christian?

Mr. McCain: I consider myself a Christian. I attend church, my faith has sustained me in very difficult times. But I think it depends on what you call a quote evangelical Christian. Because there are some people who may not share my views on – I mean, that covers a lot of ground. But I certainly consider myself a Christian.

Q: How often do you go to church?

Mr. McCain: Um, not as often as I should. When Cindy and I are in Phoenix, we attend. We’ve been fortunate enough the last few weeks to be in Phoenix. During the primary before that we were not back in Phoenix much so – again, not as frequently as I would like. I do appreciate the pastor of the North Phoenix Baptist Church, his name is Dan Neary (SP), and I talk to him frequently on the phone and I appreciate his spiritual guidance. He’s a great believer in redemption

Q: President Bush believes that gay couples should not be permitted to adopt children. Do you agree with that?

Mr. McCain: I think that we’ve proven that both parents are important in the success of a family so, no I don’t believe in gay adoption.

Q: Even if the alternative is the kid staying in an orphanage, or not having parents.

Mr. McCain: I encourage adoption and I encourage the opportunities for people to adopt children I encourage the process being less complicated so they can adopt as quickly as possible. And Cindy and I are proud of being adoptive parents.

Q: But your concern would be that the couple should a traditional couple

Q: Do you think religious organizations that get federal funding to deliver social services – faith based organizations – should be permitted to take faith into account in deciding who to hire. You saw Obama’s proposal.

Mr. McCain: I support faith-based organizations and I support a lot of the things that the president did. I was in New Orleans after Katrina and I went to their Resurrection Baptist Church and I saw volunteers from all over America working and helping in the clean-up, and the work that they did and talking with people like Governor Jindal, he said they did great work. I would continue along the model of what the president has done. And I certainly applaud Senator Obama’s, what I heard of his position basically the same.

Q: I think the one difference is whether or not as a condition of getting these monies, that these organization say they will not take into account religion or other factors in hiring decisions.

Mr. McCain: Obviously it’s very complicated because if this is an organization that says we want people in our organization that are Baptists or vegetarians or whatever it is, they should not be required to hire someone that they don’t want to hire in my view. Listen, this is the kind of the issue that goes on with the Boy Scouts, it goes on with a number of other issues. I think the president’s faith-based organization has been successful and I support what he has done

Q: I guess the way opponents describe it means that these groups are allowed to discriminate in hiring.

Mr. McCain: I can only answer it to say that I think faith-based organizations have been one of the more successful parts of the Bush Administration and I would continue it.

Q: When do you think the United States has an obligation to intervene to prevent genocides.

Mr. McCain: When it goes on and we can find an effective way to stop it – or even, if we can, if have the prescience we can try to stop it before it happens. That’s not very easy, obviously. We have to have effective ways of addressing genocide. I know what you are leading to and that is Darfur, where Colin Powell, a man who I admire as much as any man in the world, person in the world, declared genocide in Darfur several years ago. I think our challenge has been – and I think from my conversations with Secretary Powell – that this is accurate, that because of the complexities of the situations and the inabilities to identify exactly what courses of action need to be taken, coupled with the other problems – either the inability or unwillingness of other African states to be as involved as we’d like them to be in this very complex situation. But I think we should not give up our efforts to stop the genocides that is going on in Darfur. And I would exercise every possibility and consult with whoever it is and try to address the issue of genocide.

Finally, let me add one other aspect to this. You’ve got to have the support of the American people in whatever you do as well. I think Americans would support action – I know Americans would support action – but it would have to be explained to them and tell them exactly how we’re going to succeed in stopping genocide and that is a plague not only the United States but our European friends allies and the world: How do you effectively address the situation in Darfur.

Q: Part of your view of government would be that if it sees an ongoing genocidal situation and believes there is a way to end it and it has the support of the American people, you believe it is part of our obligation to do something about it.

Mr. McCain: If you can address it effectively. In other words, the unfortunate – the downside could be that you send in a force, they don’t succeed in stopping the genocide, Americans than say look, it’s not working get out, than the ultimate situation is worse than if went in. That is what I have concern about in the scenario. Look, Republican, Democrats, Liberal, Conservatives have all announced unequivocally that we will never allow a second Holocaust. That has been a public statement of every president since Harry Truman.

Q: Was it a good idea for the federal government to intervene in Bear Stearns?

Mr. McCain: I think we had to. American is in extremely difficult economic times. I agree with literally every expert on the economy. If Bear Stearns had collapsed it would have had a ripple effect in the market. And that’s why this latest mortgage crisis with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, are, excuse me, with the home loan mortgage people, is that we worry of the ripple effect of their collapse. And so, we’re going to have to contemplate what needs to be done now, We have a worsening economy. And I agree with Paulson, I agree with literally every economist in America that said that Bear Stearns, if they had collapsed, would have had a ripple effect, would have been very harmful to the American economy.

Q: Do you think the government is ultimately on the hook for Fannie and Freddie? If the worst-case scenario materializes.

Mr. McCain: I don’t think the question is so much, is it on the hook, as much as it is, could we afford to have a collapse. And I keep being asked about a quote, government bailout. I don’t know if a government, quote, bailout is necessary now. Because there are other courses of action that are being explored in order to ensure their survival. But I don’t believe we can afford to have them fail – because of their impact on the overall economy, and the housing situation which we already know is in dire straits, and I’ve head that there is various options. I also note with sorrow that their stock continues to go down, and the situation becomes more and more severe.”

Q: So whether the government is legally responsible is not so important because ultimately the nation can’t afford to let it collapse?

Mr. McCain: Yeah. I’m not so sure that the government’s legal obligation is that clear. I would leave that up to people who are more expert than I am. But I do know that if they collapse, that the effects would be of enormous consequences. So we have to try to find ways to shore up their stability and stop this slide that is going on now.

Q: One of the things I heard a lot covering the Hillary Clinton campaign against Obama is that it is difficult to run against an African-American because every charge, every use of a word was fly-specked, for signs of potential prejudice. It just made things very complicated and constraining. I guess they felt vaguely there was some double-standard there .Have you found that?

Mr. McCain: I’d like to make a joke, but I won’t. I think that Senator Obama has run an effective and admirable campaign. He has literally come from people who didn’t believe that he had much of a chance for the nomination to, with his eloquence and his effective campaigning, has not only secured the nomination of his party but he’s gotten the interest and the involvement of millions of people who otherwise might not have. So I think in any campaign, that you have to stay on your message, my message, rather than worry about the message of the campaign of the opponent.

We are in a situation today where all words are parsed, all comments are diagnosed, and looked for whatever effect they might have. We have to feed the beast, the hourly cable shows, the instant news in the blogs, and all that. That is just the situation that we’re in, and I’m not complaining about it, because that would be both foolish and a waste of time. But I believe that it’s not anything to do with Senator Obama, per se, or my campaign, per se, I just think we are in an hourly news cycle. There’s the spokespersons’ back and forth, there’s the phrase taken out, there’s the – you know, I mean, it’s just the nature of campaigns today. And I was in the 2000 campaign, as you well know, and the difference I think between 2008 and 2000 is that everything is just accelerated. It used to be: What’s the story of the day? Now it’s: What’s the story of the hour? It’ll be: what’s the story of the next five minutes? But I don’t think it has anything to do with the candidates as much as it does with the dramatic increase in telecommunications.

Q: That would be true even if you were against Senator Clinton?

Mr. McCain: I think no matter who I was running against.

Q: Do you ever sit there and think, pull back a word?

Mr. McCain: No, no, because I have to base my approach to Senator Obama as one of respect. As long as I do that, then I don’t have to worry about any language I might use, because Senator Obama deserves respect, number one, but people want a respectful campaign. I know we get into the back and forth, our spokespersons and all that, but I think they still want respectful campaigning. And I respect him.

Mr. McCain: Yeah, yeah. I’ve never had that happen. I’ve been asked about him a million times, and I’ve always said basically the same thing. I admire him and respect him, because he’s waged an incredibly successful campaign. You know, I also admire and respect Senator Clinton. You might say, as I said earlier today, she’s motivated, she’s proven, particularly, that a woman is capable of qualifying in a very effective fashion for the highest job in the land. I think she’s a role model to lots of young Americans – all Americans. Oops. All Americans.

Q: Do you think Obama has drawn unfairly favorable media coverage?

Mr. McCain: Easiest thing for me to do in my life is to complain about the media. That’s the easiest thing to do, I enjoy it, it makes me feel so much better, and I feel persecuted, and picked on – No! Look, this isn’t beanbag, this is a tough business. I’ve just got to go on with my campaign and put one foot ahead of the other. The media in America, I think, at the end of the day, is going to judge all of us as fairly as possible because I think most of the media – of course not all, look, not all politicians are honest, not all mayors are good mayors, OK, but I think at the end of the day most journalists, particularly those are involved in national campaigns, are interested in journalistic standards and reporting the facts to the American people.’’

Q: What I used to hear from the Clinton people and your own supporters now that there is sense of, not bias, but the sense of excitement resulting in more positive stories about him and more negative stories about her and now about you.

Mr. McCain: No, we’ve got 116 days I believe it is, and I’ve got to spend my time in those 116 days, how can I better communicate with these people, how can I learn more about what’s going on in the stock market today, what can I – John Taylor’s an economist – how can I better shape my economic message. It’s just a waste of time to worry about whether Michael Cooper is a jerk or not. We all know that he’s a jerk. Everybody knows that. Ask the other journalists on the bus. Ask anybody. So I just don’t, not only don’t do it, I’ve learned long ago that you’ve got to, you’ve just got to keep working and do the best you can, and at the end of the day rely on the good judgment of the American people.’

Q: What websites if any do you look at regularly?

Mr. McCain: Brooke and Mark show me Drudge, obviously, everybody watches, for better or for worse, Drudge. Sometimes I look at Politico. Sometimes RealPolitics, sometimes.

Mr. McCain: Excuse me, Meagan’s blog. And we also look at the blogs from Michael and from you that may not be in the newspaper, that are just part of your blog.

Q: But do you go on line for yourself?

Mr. McCain: They go on for me. I am learning to get online myself, and I will have that down fairly soon, getting on myself. I don’t expect to be a great communicator, I don’t expect to set up my own blog, but I am becoming computer literate to the point where I can get the information that I need – including going to my daughter’s blog first, before anything else.

Q: Do you use a blackberry or email?

Mark Salter: He uses a BlackBerry, just ours.

Mr. McCain: I use the Blackberry, but I don’t e-mail, I’ve never felt the particular need to e-mail. I read e-mails all the time, but the communications that I have with my friends and staff are oral and done with my cell phone. I have the luxury of being in contact with them literally all the time. We now have a phone on the plane that is usable on the plane, so I just never really felt a need to do it. But I do – could I just say, really – I understand the impact of blogs on American politics today and political campaigns. I understand that. And I understand that something appears on one blog, can ricochet all around and get into the evening news, the front page of The New York Times. So, I do pay attention to the blogs. And I am not in any way unappreciative of the impact that they have on entire campaigns and world opinion.

Mr. McCain: I read them most all every day.

Q: You and Obama are both newspaper and book readers. Do you read them in the old paper version or do you read them online?

Mr. McCain: I love to read them in the print form, and the reason why I do is because so much, the prominence of the story matters. If I read a story and say, Oh my God, did you see this? But it’s back on A26, it doesn’t have the impact of what are still – even though it’s declining – what are still, what are hundreds of millions of American picking up an looking at today. And that’s why I really think that reading it is, it helps me more than, now, because I don’t read all the newspapers – I don’t see, for example, the L.A. Times every day, or the San Francisco Chronicle, or the Arizona Republic when I’m away. So we go then, of course, online, and look at them.’

Q: If California wants to legalize gay marriage, should it be permitted to do so?

Mr. McCain: I respect the rights of the states to make those decisions. I obviously am personally in favor of preserving the unique status of marriage between man and woman. And I also would point out that we passed a thing called the Defense of Marriage Act, which I know you’re familiar with, where we said that states were not required to recognize in their states the decision that other states made. In other words, if the state of Massachusetts recognized marriage between man and --- had allowed same-sex marriage, that does not mean that that decision can be imposed on the state of Arizona. The state of Arizona will make that decision. “

Q: But if the state wanted to do it on the own, you would not support taking action to stop it?

Mr. McCain: If the people wanted to amend the constitution in order to support the unique status, affirm the unique status, I certainly would support that. But if they decide not to, that’s a state decision that’s made by the state.’

Q: How do you feel about teaching evolution in schools?

Mr. McCain: I think, first of all, it’s up to the school boards. That’s why we have local control over education. So my personal view is that children should be exposed to as much as they possibly can so that they can make their decisions and be the best informed. But I really believe that school boards are elected in order to make a lot of those decisions, and I respect their decisions unless they are unconstitutional in some way or, you know.

Q: If you were on a school board, how would you vote?

Mr. McCain: I don’t know, Adam. I’d have to see the proposal, I’d have to see where it lies in the curriculum, I’d have to – I can’t. I’m not running for school board.

Q: Do you think the economic policies of the last 8 years have led to an accumulation, a concentration of wealth in too few hands?

Mr. McCain: I think that because of our spending practices we have mortgaged all of our children’s futures. And I believe that every American should have the chance to become wealthy, and I want to provide them with that opportunity. And I want to keep their taxes low, and I want to provide them with a lower price for a gallon of gas, because it’s lowest income Americans who are suffering the most. So, as you know, I had my own proposal for tax cuts, and those tax cuts, I think, were important. But they also were associated with spending. I think spending – out of control spending – has harmed all Americans but I think it’s harmed low income Americans and our failure over 30 years to address the energy issue. Who is paying the most today? It’s the lower income Americans driving older automobiles. That’s who is bearing the majority of the burden of our failure to act to become independent of foreign oil and address the energy issue.

Q: To what extent do you think your campaign has been hurt by infighting?

Mr. McCain: Well, I go to town hall meetings all the time and I have them all the time and I love them. And I’ve yet to have a town hall meeting where someone stood up and said, who’s managing your campaign, who’s doing this, or what role someone played. They obviously want to know what I’m going to do about energy, about taxes, about healthcare, about education, etc. So I just will continue to focus on their concerns, and with respect, I say, I have not had them voice their concerns about how the individuals in my campaign, what role they play. Except I will continue to say that we are a collective leadership. We don’t always agree. I’m proud of my friends, I’m proud of Mark and Rick and Steve and, and Charlie and all of the people that are part of our campaign, and I’m proud of what we’ve been able to do, I’m proud of where we are, and I’m confident we’re in a position to win this election.

Q: Is if fair to say that if you look at the way your campaign goes, and you look at the difficulties that it had just management-wise, that that gives us some insight into what a McCain White House would be, for better and for worse?

Mr. McCain: Well, I think the proof is in the pudding. The one thing I have noted, and I read all the books, “The Making of the President,” from going all the way back – every book I’ve read about a campaign is that the one that won, it was a perfect and beautifully run campaign with geniuses running it and incredible messaging, etc. And always the one that lost, oh, completely screwed up, too much infighting, bad people, etc. So if I win, I believe that historians will say, way to go. He fine-tuned that campaign, and he got the right people in the right place and as the campaign grew, he gave them more responsibility. If I lose – that campaign, always in disarray. Well it’s already happened, a year or so ago, when we were done. We were finished. We were toast. And history. So you know, I’m sorry we didn’t stick to their script. I apologize for that, because too many of them predicted that we were finished. But I am confident that we have the team, and the message, and the organization. And as we have expanded from me, last summer I believe it was, flying group C on Southwest carrying my own bags, to a staff of 300 people, I’m confident that we will be just fine over time. And I love these people that are with me, I am grateful for them, they’ve given up on lives with their families, and with their friends, and their normal lives, and I will always be very grateful to them, and what they’ve done for me and our campaign.

Q: Do you like organizations with competing circles of influence. What did they used to call it at the Washington Post? Competitive tension?

Mr. McCain: I think that when Jack Kennedy went to see President Eisenhower, president Eisenhower kind of rattled him a little bit, because he said, you know, none of the easy decisions will reach your desk. Only the hard ones. Those are the ones that you’re going to have to make the decision. All the easy ones will have been, decisions will have been made before it gets to your desk. And so you’ve got to have competing views. You’ve got to have a circle of people who you know and trust. John Taylor’s future is not dependent on my campaign. But he is a noted economist in this nation, and if he thinks that I’m wrong, he’s going to tell me I’m wrong. If Henry Kissinger thinks that I’m wrong, he’ll pick up the phone – and he has, several times. And say ‘You’re wrong on this, you shouldn’t be so hard on the Russians, OK?’ You’ve got to get competing opinions, and you’ve got to do that in campaigns as well, in my view. So I think a certain amount of tension is very healthy. And a certain amount of differing views. Because the bubble that a president is in, and the bubble that a candidate is in, sometimes you find out afterwards, Oh boy, I wish I had heard thus and such and so and so. So I appreciate and want some of the tension, I don’t want too much of it, obviously, because we have to have certain efficiencies. But I think there is a balance there. I hope that that explains it. When I was commanding officer of a squadron in the Navy, I would call in other people and I would say, OK, what’s your opinion.? How do we best do this?

Q: Buckley v. Valeo: How do you square views on campaign finance with wanting to appoint conservative jurists who don’t have a history of backing up that view?

Mr. McCain: I think the important thing is that you trust their overall approach to being the ones who enforce the Constitution of the United States of America. And one of the reasons why I think we don’t ask nominees or perspective nominees for their specific views on specific cases is because I don’t think that we should. I think we should look at their overall philosophy, and their overall record. And I really believe, and it’s one reason I guess why I’m a conservative, I think that the role of the Supreme Court is to strictly interpret the Constitution of the United States of America. And I think Roberts and Alito are individuals I’m glad supported, even if they may take contrary opinions. Their position is Supreme Court justices; mine is a legislator. So I don’t expect them to agree on every issue.

Mr. McCain: I think their decision upholding McCain-Feingold – which was a decision obviously I supported, that decision – that was our legislation.
383 2008-07-13 Artists have appropriated images from advertising for decades. What happens when the tables are turned? Mia Fineman reports....
384 2008-07-13 Yahoo said Saturday night that it had rejected a renewed proposal by Microsoft, together with the activist investor Carl C. Icahn, to buy the Internet company’s search business.

The proposal, made Friday evening by Mr. Icahn and Microsoft’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, was similar to a previous offer Yahoo had rejected.

Yahoo’s decision is another broadside between the company and Microsoft, two months after the software giant withdrew its $47.5 billion takeover offer. Microsoft had said Monday that it would be open to making another offer to buy part or all of Yahoo if its board were ousted.

Under the new plan, Yahoo was to have sold its search business to Microsoft. But this time, Mr. Icahn, who is waging a campaign to unseat Yahoo’s board, would have taken over the remaining parts of the company.

Mr. Icahn and Mr. Ballmer gave Yahoo 24 hours to make a decision, the company said in a statement. After a meeting of four to five hours with its financial and legal advisers, Yahoo’s board decided to reject the offer.

“It is ludicrous to think that our board could accept such a proposal,” Yahoo’s chairman, Roy Bostock, said in a statement. “While this type of erratic and unpredictable behavior is consistent with what we have come to expect from Microsoft, we will not be bludgeoned into a transaction that is not in the best interests of our stockholders.”
385 2008-07-13 AMSTERDAM (AP) — Poor countries will need some $6 billion in food aid annually, given that food and energy prices are expected to remain high for years to come, Robert B. Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, said Saturday.

Mr. Zoellick, at a World Bank conference organized by the Dutch government, said the bank also was seeking billions more dollars to help developing countries combat global warming and to adopt technologies from the industrial world.

He estimated that this year $10 billion would be needed to ease the effects of food inflation, including $3.5 billion for “short-term safety net” projects, such as school lunches and work-for-food programs, in more than 50 countries.
386 2008-07-13 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic reached his second Swedish Open final in three years on Saturday, rallying past second-seeded Fernando Verdasco of Spain, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, in Bastad.

Berdych lost to Verdasco in the third round at Wimbledon. In Sunday’s final he will face the winner of a semifinal match between Tommy Robredo or top-seeded David Ferrer, the defending champion.

Berdych, ranked 23rd and seeded fourth, raced to a 4-1 lead in the third set before play stopped for 90 minutes because of rain. He fell behind by 30-0 with serve when play resumed but eventually held, and then lost only a point as he served out the match in the eighth game.

“I wanted to finish the match, but you can’t do anything about the rain,” said Berdych, who lost the 2005 final to Rafael Nadal.

FIRST FINAL FOR DEL POTRO Unseeded Juan Martin del Potro reached his first career ATP final, defeating his Argentine compatriot Eduardo Schwank, 6-2, 6-4, in the Mercedes Cup in Stuttgart, Germany. He will play Richard Gasquet of France in Sunday’s final.
387 2008-07-13 Graeme McDowell shot a five-under 66 and Simon Khan had a 68 on Saturday to share the third-round lead at the Scottish Open in Luss. Each player bogeyed the short 17th hole at Loch Lomond, but McDowell birdied No. 18 to draw even with Khan at 10-under 203.

“It’s nice to be in the mix and in the last group again,” McDowell said. Khan, whose only European Tour victory came at the 2004 Wales Open, said, “I was patient today, and this week I have managed my game well.”

Four players are in third two strokes behind the leaders, including last week’s European Open winner Ross Fisher (68), Miguel Ángel Jiménez (68), Jeev Milka Singh (69) and Richard Green (70).

Phil Mickelson (71) was six shots off the pace a day after he made a hole in one to make the cut. “It wasn’t that bad of a round in tough conditions, but I just didn’t quite get it going,” Mickelson said. “I made a couple birdies early but kind of stalled and didn’t get the momentum going. It was a round that could very easily been the round that I needed. I felt yesterday and today there was a low round waiting to come out and I hope it will be tomorrow.”
388 2008-07-13 His escape has prompted a paroxysm of denunciation in Iran’s controlled news media, which have accused him of defrauding creditors and suggested that he has long been in league with the United States and Israel, claims that human rights groups dismiss as crude propaganda.

From his Yahoo blog, Mr. Batebi has replied, posting the taunt, “Your hands will never reach me” and the instruction “Click here.” The photograph that pops up shows the dissident, an Iranian Johnny Depp with a ponytail and a satisfied expression, posing in front of the United States Capitol.

While some details of Mr. Batebi’s biography, his treatment in Iran and his escape could not be independently confirmed, he provided a video he took during his journey, and independent advocates vouched for much of his account.

He knows he has arrived during a time of tension between Iran and the United States, and he said he did not want his story to heighten the conflict.

Wary of being viewed as a pawn of American policy, he said that the United States played no role in his departure from Iran, a fact American officials confirmed. The United States did give him permission to enter this country “out of concern for his safety,” said Gordon D. Johndroe, the spokesman for the National Security Council. He said Mr. Batebi attended a courtesy meeting with N.S.C. staff members on Friday.

Despite Mr. Batebi’s soft-spoken Persian, translated by Lily Mazahery, an Iranian-American lawyer who is helping him resettle, his contempt for Iran’s rulers is palpable. But he does not want a violent revolution. “No one with a healthy brain wants a revolution without a plan for what comes after,” he said. “That’s what happened in 1979.”

Mr. Batebi may have inherited his jaundiced view of his country’s leaders. After the Islamic revolution of 1979, his father, a customs bureaucrat who had fallen out of favor with the shah’s regime, declined to join the Revolutionary Guards. His mother, a first-grade teacher, taught him and his younger brother and sister a mild, Golden Rule Islam that had little in common with the ayatollahs’ harsh theology.

His own awakening began in fourth grade, when his teacher, fed up with the distortions of an official history textbook, burst out: “Go out and read other things to try to get the truth.”

“The teacher probably doesn’t even remember,” Mr. Batebi said. “But he changed the course of my life.”

A few weeks later came the stoning. Though forbidden by his mother, he slipped out of the house to see the commotion near his school. He saw a man, accused of adultery, buried to the waist, his head covered with a sack that turned red as Revolutionary Guards hurled chunks of concrete. A mullah standing atop a wall gave the orders, and an ambivalent crowd of neighbors looked on.

“I was utterly shocked,” he recalled. “My hands and legs were shaking.” Afterward, he suffered from nightmares.

Years later, he would witness public hangings and dismemberments. “But nothing had the impact of that stoning,” he said. “I thought, This can’t be Islam.”

At the University of Tehran in the mid-1990s, Mr. Batebi embraced his photojournalism studies and made two dozen short films with existentialist themes, often with his own electric guitar for a soundtrack. He also joined in student protests, getting arrested three times. In fervent late-night discussions, he recalled, one admired model was the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.

The demonstrations exploded in 1999 in what would become known as 18 Tir, the date according to the Iranian calendar. In a wave of protests that threatened the 20-year-old regime, hundreds of students demonstrated against the closing of a newspaper, Salam. Mr. Batebi, busy making his senior thesis film about drug addiction, stumbled upon the demonstrators and joined in.

When the police fired into a crowd, a bullet hit a young man next to Mr. Batebi, who pulled off the student’s shirt to try to stanch the bleeding. After carrying the wounded man to a makeshift clinic, he held up the shirt to warn other students against marching outside.

A photographer caught the moment. Mr. Batebi was already in jail when The Economist published his picture, putting him in far greater peril. When the judge hearing his case showed him the magazine, Mr. Batebi reacted with both fear and perverse pride.

“At first I was shocked and scared,” he said. “But then I thought that even though they’re going to kill me, I’ve caused a major blow to the regime.”

Mr. Batebi described 17 months in solitary confinement, including repeated torture by interrogators trying to force him to say on television that the famous T-shirt was stained with paint or animal blood.

His jailers thrashed him with a metal cable, beat his testicles and kicked in his teeth, he said. They held his face down in a pool of excrement. They tied his arms behind his back and hung him from the ceiling. At other times, strapping him to a chair, they kept him awake night after night, cutting him and rubbing salt into the wounds.

To stave off madness, he said, he fought back. “If the interrogator cursed me, I would curse him back,” he said. “If the interrogator hit me, I’d try to hit him back.”

Twice he was led blindfolded to the gallows. Once the noose was left around his neck for 45 minutes, and he passed out from fear, he recalled. The second time, he sat, waiting, as a prisoner on each side of him was hanged.

The photo that so infuriated the authorities may have saved him, as advocates around the world took up his cause. His death sentence, for “agitating people to create unrest,” was commuted, first to 15 years and then to 10.

In 2005, allowed a day pass to take exams for a sociology degree, he decided to flee. He remained free for five months, working in the political underground and marrying a young dentist. But after she was jailed because of his activities, they agreed to end their union, he said.

After Mr. Batebi was rearrested in 2006, the harshest treatment stopped. But he was sometimes forced to watch his friends being tormented. Last year, after Mr. Batebi suffered what was probably a stroke and several seizures, he was released for medical treatment.

In March, he was ordered to return to prison. He knew that supporters wanted him to keep up the fight from behind bars, but he was worn out. “I couldn’t do more than I had,” he said. “Everyone needs a life.”

On a Yahoo chat site, on March 13, Mr. Batebi contacted Ms. Mazahery, the lawyer, who he knew had helped other Iranians get into the United States. At the same time, through a connection made in prison, Mr. Batebi sought help from the underground Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran, which soon directed him to Argentine Square in Tehran.

To his surprise, his Kurdish helpers — volunteers whose real names he never learned — said he had to leave immediately, taking advantage of the authorities’ lax attention during the Iranian New Year holidays. Carrying only a backpack containing his Dell laptop computer, a camera and a pocket-size video recorder, he retrieved some money from an A.T.M. and climbed into the strangers’ car.

The next two days were a blur, he said, as he was driven in a series of cars on a circuitous route to the northwestern border with Iraq, a straight-line distance of about 300 miles. Once, his ride was with a family. Another time, it was with a mother and her baby. A third time, he was directed to board a bus.

With many precautions, the Kurdish underground railroad moved him to the border — he will not say exactly where. Then a new five-man team took over.

For a day and a half, with burros carrying supplies, they moved along the border, which was patrolled by guards and protected by land mines. One of the escorts walked ahead to ensure that the way was clear, Mr. Batebi said.

They heard sniper fire and occasional artillery bombardments, but never came under direct fire. Mr. Batebi’s tiny camera captured shaky images of the burros traversing the dry, rocky hills and gullies. Peering over bluffs, the group could see the flags of two nations facing one another at lonely border posts.

On March 20, when Mr. Batebi’s guides handed him over to new Kurdish guides in Iraq, he said, he felt no elation.

“Suddenly I was very scared,” he said. “I was like a baby who’s been separated from his mother and has stepped into a world of which he knows nothing.”

His protectors brought him to the Erbil offices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which began the laborious process necessary to move an Iranian with no passport and little identification to a new land.

His Kurdish allies believed that an Iranian hit team was hunting for him, so he was moved from one safe house to another for three months.

He was shaken one day by the unexpected phone call from the Iranian interrogator, a man known by the prison pseudonym Javad Javadi. Mr. Batebi sought to turn the tables on the interrogator, firing questions back at him and capturing a digital recording of one of the calls, but he knew he had to get out.

The United Nations was arranging a placement in Sweden when Ms. Mazahery called to say that the United States had granted Mr. Batebi’s request for “humanitarian parole,” a relatively rare measure used in cases of danger or political importance.

When his flight from Vienna landed at Dulles Airport in Virginia in late June, Mr. Batebi was astonished to see that the airport worker waving the jet into the gate was a Muslim woman wearing a tight head scarf.

Mr. Batebi was enthralled, sensing a casual tolerance that was exactly what he had longed for in his own country. “It seems to me that people here are free to live their lives, as long as they do no harm to anyone else,” he said.

There are more distinguished figures in the Iranian opposition, people who have spent decades in the struggle, as Mr. Batebi is quick to acknowledge. But he is discovering that few are so recognizable. For the Iranian diaspora, The Economist’s 1999 photo remains an iconic image.

Mr. Batebi was a little nonplussed, Ms. Mazahery said, when an Iranian-American woman outside a Washington grocery store walked past him a few days ago, did a double take and called out his name. When he said that, yes, he was Mr. Batebi, the long-imprisoned dissident, she burst into tears.

Zahir Janmohamed of Amnesty International USA called Mr. Batebi “grounded and humble” about his role.

But he warned that now, as Mr. Batebi joins an exile community whose rivalries are legendary, many factions would seek to recruit him.

Mr. Batebi speaks of working from afar for peaceful change in Iran. He recoils when asked about the possibility of American military action against Iran, saying that if the United States attacked, “I might go back and fight for my country myself.”

He has some ordinary goals, the dreams of a man who spent most of his 20s in a prison cell. He wants to study politics and sociology, he said, and work as a photojournalist. He wants to play guitar. He thought for a moment, then he remembered one more modest ambition.

“I want to fish!” Mr. Batebi said, his face relaxing into a smile. “I’m going to go fishing!”
389 2008-07-13 Birkdale recently had a face-lift that included lengthening it by 155 yards to 7,173 yards, which is plenty for a par-70 course; the addition of 20 new bunkers, the subtraction of 14 and the redesign or repositioning of 27 more; removal of trees to enhance its classic links look; and the rebuilding and significant repositioning of some greens, including the 17th, which was pushed back 25 yards.

The case can be made that Royal Birkdale is in the same league, strategically if not aesthetically, with the other regular courses in the rotation. It can play hard and fast or it can play slightly moist and thick with heavy gorse and bracken that will gobble golf balls the way a Venus fly trap eats flies. This weekend, with the northwest wind whistling off the Irish Sea and the dull gray clouds sticking to the sky like a thick layer of lead tape, Birkdale rolled its shoulders and stirred awake.

Near the grandstand by the second tee, Willie Dunbar, a course worker, was busily checking the footing. In a thick Scottish burr, Dunbar explained he was checking the course for “trip hazards,” trying to ensure that spectators would not kick exposed TV cables or any other protrusions and take a fall. He seemed more concerned that a soft, green golf course would not have enough trip wire to keep the pros honest.

“I hear the rain may be done,” he said, quickly adding in a dour Scots manner, “but you canna believe any forecast past one day.”

Recent rains have made the fairways green and the rough lush and thick, while chilly winds have dried greens and fairways enough to keep it from becoming too soft, the way it was back in ’61. That year some course signage was blown down by howling north winds and rain that delayed the start of the third round.

Palmer was 31 then, fearless and physically stronger than all but a couple of players on the tour. When he drove his golf ball into a gorse bush on the 16th hole during the third round, there were many among the partisans rooting for him who thought he was about to blow his chance to win the tournament. Instead, Palmer decided to play the shot and, according to the plaque on the course commemorating the feat, Palmer’s “hugely powerful swing uprooted the bush and placed the ball on the green.”

The walk to the 16th tee from the 15th green is at least 100 yards, and Palmer would not recognize the view from tee to fairway today. The hole has been lengthened to 439 yards and plays directly into the prevailing wind, and the fairway appears to be a sliver on the horizon. Actually, the landing area is 32 yards wide and about 250 yards out, but so is the first of the hole’s 10 bunkers.

At the 17th, which has been lengthened by 25 yards to play as a 572-yard par-5, the problem will not be so much the bunkers — though there are eight of them, including a wicked cross bunker in the layup zone at 126 yards from the green — it will be the huge, severely undulating green that has an opening just 12 yards wide in front and, to deter any long run-up shots, is 35 yards from front to back.

In 1983, Watson survived a badly hooked tee shot in the final round and managed to scramble for a difficult par that set up his memorable finish for the win. That may not be possible this year, depending on the pin position, though the secretary of the Royal and Ancient, Peter Dawson, said last week the R&A would be monitoring the green to ensure “it does not get away from us.”

Barring some freakish weather occurrence, incidences of the course setup going awry are unlikely. The governing bodies, including the United States Golf Association, have largely come into the 21st century, consulting touring pros and using common sense to create setups that are difficult but fair, sometimes allowing for great theater to unfold.

The R&A was slightly ahead of its American colleagues on this, concerning itself more with protecting the field and the competition than protecting par. Its setups have, for at least the past 25 years, challenged the best players to make par or better at the final hole to win the championship. If a golfer manages to shoot a 67 in the final round, then he is to be congratulated with doffed hats and handshakes.

That is what happened in ’83 at Birkdale when Hale Irwin shot 67 and came in at eight under par, tied for the clubhouse lead with Andy Bean, who had also shot 67. It looked as if he would be part of a three-way playoff on Monday with Watson, who needed par to win, despite the fact that Irwin had whiffed a 2-inch putt the day before on the 14th hole, a careless error he might have gotten away with but for one other piece of Birkdale lore: Watson, having walked through a corridor of silence in the dunes in front of the 18th tee, was sizing up a 2-iron into the green from 213 yards out.

“Best 2-iron of my life,” is what Watson said after hitting it to 15 feet and two-putting for the winning par. That is history. Maybe more is in store this week at a stage that has been quietly waiting a decade to show its stuff.
390 2008-07-13 Concern about the stability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage-lending giants, weighed on the markets and sent stocks down again last week.

Government officials discussed options for strengthening the two companies, which play an outsize role in the housing market and whose securities have generally been assumed to carry an implicit federal guarantee.

Freddie Mac’s shares fell 46.6 percent for the week, for the worst performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, and Fannie Mae’s drop of 45.4 percent was not far behind.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 188 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 11,100.54. The S. &P. 500 index fell 23.41 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 1,239.49. The Nasdaq composite index declined 6.30 points, or 1.9 percent, to close at 2,239.08. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.96 percent from 3.97 percent the previous week.

The futures price for a barrel of oil fell in New York to $145.08 from $145.29 the previous week.
391 2008-07-13 “Rent” is about New York, far more than, say, “Chicago” is about Chicago. I have tried to think up a title that could tap as deeply into New York’s consciousness — “Car Alarm, Car Alarm,” “There’s a Very Angry Woman on the Subway,” “Class Envy!” — but nothing comes close. This is a city whose founding mythology involves not a magic spring or a she-wolf but a sweet real estate deal, one in which it’s still unclear who was bamboozling whom, making it all the more touchingly New York.

But the city in which “Rent” takes place was already vanishing when the show opened. The number of annual AIDS diagnoses was on the decline, and the city was in the midst of what would be an unprecedented drop in the crime rate. Brooklyn had become the preferred frontier for the young, overeducated and underemployed; Williamsburg was home to hundreds like the narrator of “Rent,” Mark Cohen, the nice Jewish boy from Scarsdale who dreams of becoming a filmmaker while not, actually, making much in the way of films.

On the other hand, heroin arrests were still on the rise in 1996, and finding Chilean sea bass on Avenue C continued to be difficult.

Now, 12 years later, it would be impossible to see the show and think it was set any time in the past decade. Much of “Rent” has become downright nostalgic, almost jarringly so. Several numbers revolve around pay phones and answering machines (20-somethings with answering machines!). Roger, the gloomy, HIV-positive guitarist with a nasty case of rocker’s block, plays gigs at CBGB, then a landmark of the New York underground music scene, now a menswear boutique. A group of lefty hipsters talk politics with no mention of anyone named Cheney or even the first Bush.

THERE is a fascinatingly antagonistic attitude among the characters toward virtual reality and what they call cyberland. The creation of a cyber studio on a lot on East 11th Street is the great evil of the musical, seemingly more ominous than AIDS or drugs, and yet if “Rent” took place today, half the characters in the show would be blogging.

And as has often been noted, the setting has become utterly foreign. At a restaurant on 11th Street and Avenue B, the intersection where Mark and Roger live in an industrial loft and where much of the show’s action takes place, you can now get a nice filet de saumon with potato purée and an herb lemon jus. A few weeks ago, the Life Café, the restaurant on 10th Street and Avenue B where the young protesters gathered at the end of Act I to celebrate the bohemian lifestyle, began selling souvenir T-shirts, baseball caps and tote bags.

Did “Rent” play a part in changing the neighborhood it celebrates? Probably. “Rent” is the “All the President’s Men” of aspirant hipsters, a great advertisement for Alphabet City (once and never more to be marked off by the avenues Awful, Bad, Crazy and Dangerous), where you can come live on dreams and tofu.

As the neighborhood has gone from a place cars avoided to a Friday night date spot, a cynical backlash to “Rent” has taken place. Film critics appeared to have been waiting in a batter’s stance when the movie came out in 2005. Sure, “Rent” the movie was of debatable quality, but a few reviewers took hard swings at the show itself. The whole idea of creating a musical about the dying breed of bohemian squatters seemed suddenly offensive and even cynical. That’s silly, of course.

The fact that “Rent” the musical sells merchandise and $250 tickets is no more “ironic” than the fact that you can buy a copy of “The Communist Manifesto” at a corporate-owned bookstore (or that you can see “La Bohème,” the Puccini opera on which “Rent” was based, at the Met). That’s just how the business works.

Likewise, it’s missing the point to accuse “Rent,” despite its characters’ struggles with AIDS and heroin addiction, of being inauthentic. Of course it’s inauthentic. It’s a musical. People sing and dance. Could you imagine what an authentic musical about East Village squatters would look like? (Curtain time: Whenever.) What about an authentic musical about Irish and Puerto Rican street gangs, or Navy sailors in the South Pacific in World War II? I’ll take the ones we’ve got, corny parts and all.

I’d go even further and stipulate: “Rent” is a safe, accessible show that at times struggles, even strains, to put up a dangerous front. The “Rent” marketing campaign has tempered that gritty facade in recent years; the show now, like “The Phantom of the Opera,” advertises itself as something you simply have to see — and come back to — because of its place in the culture.

But think about that. Is there a more accurate reflection of recent New York history? Friendly, clean, low-crime, nonsmoking, trans-fat-free, cabs-that-take-credit-cards New York? A city we can’t honestly pretend is rough and gritty anymore?

I flattered myself with the tough town’s image for a little while, moving to Fort Greene, Brooklyn, seven years ago, and expecting to find mean streets. I did find some nice French restaurants and a grocery store around the corner that sold what seemed to be a dozen varieties of muesli. Great jogging in the park, too.

THERE are those who still hold onto the dream of danger, but their numbers are shrinking. Skinny young ex-suburbanites who would swoon at the sight of a pea shooter walk around Williamsburg wearing T-shirts emblazoned with a silhouette of a Kalashnikov and the words “Defend Brooklyn” (from everyone who came after, one assumes). Residents of Hell’s Kitchen adamantly refuse to adopt the name Clinton, an old label for the area that real estate brokers tried to bring back at a time when the Hell’s Kitchen description actually applied.

I remember going to Times Square shortly after moving here and seeing, in front of the since-closed Warner Brothers store on 42nd Street, a large statue of Daffy Duck (or was it Bugs Bunny?) wearing a trench coat, furtively hawking knockoff watches. It was an incredible symbol of how New York wanted to see itself, and how ridiculous the city looked when it tried too hard.

But while “Rent,” like the city itself, can reorient its marketing to fit the times, the show endures. It is a work of art about a particular time and place, except that unlike a movie or a book, this work continues to be put on live, night after night for years, as that time and place recede into the distance.

I returned to “Rent” a few weeks ago. I felt old. As if everyone in the row I was sitting in were on a junior high school field trip and I were the chaperon. But the show felt old, too. Old in an easy, comfortable way. Comfortable is the absolute last thing that any self-respecting bohemian is looking for, but in the end, that was the fate of bohemia in New York; it was made comfortable. And that’s what was so striking about the revisit: not what had changed, which is fairly obvious, but what sounded completely, prosaically, blandly familiar.

Take the lyrics to the song “La Vie Bohème,” the show’s anthem in defiance of respectability. It is Christmas Eve. A protest against the development of a lot on 11th Street populated by homeless people has suddenly turned into a riot. Afterward the characters gather at the Life Café, where they see their former friend, the sell-out, the compromiser, the cynic, Benjamin Coffin III (that imperial, insidious “III”). Benny is behind the development and is having drinks with his father-in-law, an investor in the project.

After some smarmy back and forth, Benny declares the death of bohemia. The cast begins its song in response, a hymn to the subversive, the antiestablishment. At least that’s the idea.

“To handcrafted beers made in local breweries,” Mark sings. “To yoga, to yogurt, to rice and beans and cheese.” Also: “To riding your bike, midday past the three-piece suits/to fruits — to no absolutes,” and get this: “To Absolut.” Like the vodka.

The song goes on. To Vaclav Havel. To Sondheim, Sontag, Antonioni, Bertolucci and Kurosawa (sounds like a sold-out Saturday afternoon quintuple bill at Film Forum). To German wine.

In other words, Park Slope for dummies. That song has become weirdly affecting, more affecting, to me at least, than ever before. As the drug- and disease-buffeted dreamers sing about all these things that would soon be popping up in the aisles at Whole Foods and in the dinner table conversation of Cobble Hill mommies and daddies, you realize that this is no mock funeral for the bohemian lifestyle. It’s the real wake.

Benny knew it, of course, and was taking good notes, because he won (and he did, in a big way) when he began singing along, simply incorporating defiance into his sales pitch. You, too, can live la vie bohème in your $2 million condo on the Bowery, situated between the yoga studio and the organic food store. Today, almost nothing in that song seems dated, and that’s the sad part.

Occasionally on my way to the shiny new skyscraper on 41st Street where I work, I pass by the Nederlander Theater. The Nederlanders, like most other property owners in Times Square, were in the process of renovating it in the mid-1990s, before “Rent” arrived. But the show’s producers asked them to stop the project, so the shabby and half-finished theater would keep that downtown vibe.

And it has, with its graffiti-covered facade and the cast of real homeless people who often congregate there. As it turned out, the intentionally down-at-heels look of the theater was not necessary: The tour of “Rent” played perfectly well in clean, nicely appointed theaters around the country. People come for the story, not the trappings.

NEXT door to the Nederlander, there’s a newish boutique hotel; down the street, a New York Sports Club and the aforementioned skyscraper. Across from the Nederlander is the Disney-operated New Amsterdam Theater, one of the jewels of the 42nd Street development project that hosed out the sex shops and porn theaters and put a shiny, happy face on the block in the 1990s.

Cast and crew members from “Mary Poppins” on smoking breaks stand opposite the Rent-heads lining up for the daily lottery of cheap tickets. It’s a bizarre little tennis match, those theaters across from each other on 41st Street, two different symbols of what New York should look like.

That match can’t go on forever. After “Rent” closes in September, the Nederlanders will finish their long-postponed renovation and the Nederlander Theater will open for the next tenant, looking as good as new.
392 2008-07-13 I understand the empathy for delivery persons, but the response missed the safety issue involved. Who in their right mind would allow a total stranger to wander freely in a building? Just because someone rings the bell doesn’t guarantee that the person works for the pizza joint around the corner. That person could just as easily be fleeing the police, or eager to grab the stroller parked inside the front door.

Concern for your neighbors’ safety should come first.

Michael Bradley

Park Slope

‘Ladders of Memory’ and Where They Lead

“Ladders of Memory” (June 29), about the Putnam Rolling Ladder Company in SoHo, was beautifully written, observant and fun.

As an English major in college, I remember having to do research on some American lit subject and finding, say, an intriguing article written about settlers attacked by a bear and trying to kill it, or some other routine event. That article, most likely found on microfiche, would transport me to the place and time so deftly as to make it almost as if I was recalling the memory from having been there myself.

I felt the same way about “Ladders of Memory.” It gave me that feeling of transportation and insight that doesn’t come around all the time.

Scott Donnelly

Fairport, N.Y.

Re “Help on Four Legs, Sometimes Followed by Confusion” (June 29), about an effort to clarify city law on providing access to people with service animals:

Our society is plagued by rampant narcissism and a widespread sense of entitlement, but even by contemporary standards, the article was way over the top. That the subjects of the article object to a standard of “reasonable accommodation” tells the whole story.

Sherman Greene

Upper West Side

“A Look Back at Canarsie, Clouded by Copyright Woes” (June 29), about the Brooklyn Historical Society’s refusal to allow two of its photographs to be published in a book about Brooklyn, perfectly described the “orphan works” conundrum: Under copyright law, an author needs permission to use a historical photo, but the photo’s owner no longer exists. Congress is considering two bills to address the problem, but many artists remain concerned.

Without a change to copyright law, archives like the Brooklyn Historical Society hold back their vast collections out of fear of potentially high damages of copyright infringement. Commercial users, too, like the author of the Brooklyn photograph book, can do nothing even with cash to pay the rightful owner, who unfortunately no longer exists.

Alex Curtis

Washington

The author is the director of policy and new media for Public Knowledge, a consumer advocacy group for digital matters.

All readers are invited to submit letters to cityletters@nytimes .com. Each letter should include the author’s name, address and phone number, though only the author’s name and neighborhood will be published.

Letters are subject to editing for space and clarity. For more information, call (212) 556-7702.
393 2008-07-13 The 300 apes in Spanish zoos would not be freed, but better conditions would be mandated.

What’s intriguing about the committee’s action is that it juxtaposes two sliding scales that are normally not allowed to slide against each other: how much kinship humans feel for which animals, and just which “human rights” each human deserves.

We like to think of these as absolutes: that there are distinct lines between humans and animals, and that certain “human” rights are unalienable. But we’re kidding ourselves.

In an interview, Mr. Singer described just such calculations behind the Great Ape Project: he left out lesser apes like gibbons because scientific evidence of human qualities is weaker, and he demanded only rights that he felt all humans were usually offered, such as freedom from torture — rather than, say, rights to education or medical care.

Depending on how it is counted, the DNA of chimpanzees is 95 percent to 98.7 percent the same as that of humans.

Nonetheless, the law treats all animals as lower orders. has no position on apes in Spain and has never had an internal debate about who is human, said Joseph Saunders, deputy program director.

“There’s no blurry middle,” he said, “and human rights are so woefully protected that we’re going to keep our focus there.”

Meanwhile, even in democracies, the law accords diminished rights to many humans: children, prisoners, the insane, the senile. Teenagers may not vote, philosophers who slip into may be lashed to their beds, courts can order surgery or force-feeding.

Spain does not envision endowing apes with all rights: to drive, to bear arms and so on. Rather, their status would be akin to that of children.

Ingrid Newkirk, a founder of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals , considers Spain’s vote “a great start at breaking down the species barriers, under which humans are regarded as godlike and the rest of the animal kingdom, whether chimpanzees or clams, are treated like dirt.”

Other commentators are aghast. Scientists, for example, would like to keep using chimpanzees to study the virus, which is believed to have come from apes.

Mr. Singer responded by noting that humans are a better study model, and yet scientists don’t deliberately infect them with AIDS.

“They’d need to justify not doing that,” he said. “Why apes?”

Spain’s Catholic bishops attacked the vote as undermining a divine will that placed humans above animals. One said such thinking led to , euthanasia and ethnic cleansing.

But given that even some humans are denied human rights, what is the most basic right? To not be killed for food, perhaps?

Ten years ago, I stood in a clearing in the Cameroonian jungle, asking a hunter to hold up for my camera half the baby gorilla he had split and butterflied for .

My distress — partly faked, since I was also feeling triumphant, having come this far hoping to find exactly such a scene — struck him as funny. “A gorilla is still meat,” said my guide, a former gorilla hunter himself. “It has no soul.”

So he agrees with Spain’s bishops. But it was an interesting observation for a West African to make. He looked much like the guy on the famous engraving adopted as a coat of arms by British abolitionists: a slave in shackles, kneeling to either beg or pray. Below it the motto: Am I Not a Man, and a Brother?

Whether or not Africans had souls — whether they were human in God’s eyes, capable of salvation — underlay much of the colonial debate about slavery. They were granted human rights on a sliding scale: as slaves, they were property; in the United States Constitution a slave counted as only three-fifths of a person.

As Ms. Newkirk pointed out, “All these supremacist notions take a long time to erode.”

She compared the rights of animals to those of women: it only seems like a long time, she said, since they got the vote or were admitted to . Or, she might have added, to the seminary. Though no Catholic bishop would suggest that women lack souls, it will be quite a while before a female bishop denounces Spain’s Parliament.

But we’re drifting from that most basic right — to not be killed for food.

Back to the clearing. As someone who eats foie gras and veal (made from tortured animals) and has eaten whale (in ), I don’t know why I suddenly turned squeamish when offered a nibble of primate. On reflection, I probably faked that too. When I was young, my family used to drive over Donner Pass each year to go camping, and my mother would regale us with the history of the Donner Party. Even as a child, I had no doubt that, in extremis, I would have tucked in.

On our drive back to ’s coast, my guide insisted that some of the local Fang people, well known for cannibalism in the 19th century, still dug up bodies to eat. I believed him partly because in , where I then lived, murder victims were often found missing the body parts needed in traditional medicine.

Cannibalism is repugnant to the laws of all countries. But that repugnance is not written in the extra tidbits of DNA that separate us from chimps. Quite the opposite: “pot polish” on human bones found in various archaeological sites suggests that some of our ancestors exited this world as stew. That too puts us in the “community of equals” with apes; female chimpanzees are known to eat rivals’ babies.

But when human law does intervene in this primate-eat-primate world, it is also on a sliding scale. Even animal cruelty laws have a bias toward big mammals like us. For example, in a slaughterhouse, chickens are sent alive and squawking into the throat-slitting machine and the scalding bath.

But under the federal Humane Slaughter Act, a cow must be knocked senseless as painlessly as possible before the first cut can be made.

Which raises an interesting moral dilemma for the righteous Spanish Parliament: What about bullfighting?

As in all great struggles separating man from beast: a lot of it’s in the capework. Olé!
394 2008-07-13 Emily Lauren Kropp, the daughter of Joann Y. Kropp and Norman W. Kropp of Upper Grandview, N.Y., was married on Saturday evening to Christopher George Michel, the son of Linda L. Michel and Edward G. Michel of Dublin, Calif. The Rev. John Caulfield, a Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle in Washington.

The bride, 27, is a public affairs specialist at the Commerce Department in Washington, writing press releases and acting as a liaison with the public affairs offices of the Census Bureau, the Economics and Statistics Administration and the Bureau of Economic Analysis. She graduated magna cum laude from George Washington.

Her father is a senior counsel at Citigroup in New York, specializing in employee benefits law. Until 2007, her mother was the president of Walter Karl in Pearl River, N.Y., a direct-marketing division of InfoUSA, a business data company; she is now a freelance direct-marketing consultant.

The bridegroom, 26, is the deputy chief speechwriter to President George W. Bush. He graduated summa cum laude from Yale, where he was editor in chief of The Yale Daily News.

His mother teaches preschool at the Resurrection Lutheran Child Development Program in Dublin. His father works in San Francisco as the regional controller for financial operations of the Seattle, Las Vegas and San Francisco offices of Flack & Kurtz, a New York engineering consulting firm.

Ms. Kropp and Mr. Michel met in June 2003 while working 12- to 14-hour days at the White House. She was doing research and fact-checking for presidential speeches, and he had just started as an intern. By August, he had joined the staff as an assistant, doing fact-checking, research and writing.
395 2008-07-13 Emily Beth Szuchmacher, a daughter of Ellen Szuchmacher and Dr. Pinkus Szuchmacher of Roslyn, N.Y., is to be married Sunday in Lake Success, N.Y., to Shawn Randall Fox, the son of Jacqueline Fox and Craig Fox of Macungie, Pa. Rabbi David Kalb is to officiate at the Village Club at Lake Success.

The bride, 31, teaches kindergarten and first grade at Public School 3 in Manhattan. She graduated from Washington University in St. Louis and received a master’s degree in elementary and early-childhood education from Bank Street College of Education.

Her father is a vascular surgeon in Forest Hills, Queens; the bride’s mother is an office manager for his practice.

The bridegroom, 30, is an associate at the Manhattan office of the Richmond, Va., law firm McGuireWoods; he specializes in bankruptcy law. He graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and received his law degree from the University of Connecticut.

His mother is a saleswoman at the Wal-Mart in Trexlertown, Pa. His father retired as an assistant sales manager at the Callari Auto Group, a dealership in Stamford, Conn.
396 2008-07-13 Re “Who Let the Dogs On? You’d Be Surprised” by Lisa Bernhard [July 6]:

Your article compared the new CBS canine competition show to “American Idol” and “Survivor.” But to me, “Greatest American Dog” sounds a lot like a former Animal Planet program, “Pet Star.”

But in addition to featuring dogs dancing, “Pet Star” showcased more exotic, broader fare, like a rat cleaning the teeth of its mistress and an otter diving for (and retrieving) a set of keys.

I am also reminded of the more traditional dog agility contests, although the people frantically, running and pointing alongside their pets, are sometimes just as fetching (pun intended).
397 2008-07-13 The foundation contends that such residents might be priced out of the local residential market if the city approved another developer’s proposal to spend more than $3 billion to upgrade the waterfront area and build luxury housing and retail outlets.

But late last month, members of the City Council and the local preservation board unanimously agreed with four residents who had filed a petition to preserve the buildings. It is the first time a mixed-used area in Yonkers has been deemed historic by the city. (The two other city areas that have been declared landmarks — Lawrence Park and Halcyon Place — are in residential neighborhoods.)

The 13 buildings “represent Yonkers’ gilded age,” said Donna Giambrone Ingram, a member of the Landmark Preservation Board. “This is an important commercial area still intact from the Industrial Revolution, and because of that, we agreed it should be preserved.”

Now that the block has landmark status, the city will seek a variety of grants to stabilize the facades and upgrade the buildings.

But Steven Brown, president of the Greyston Foundation, which over the years has built housing elsewhere in Yonkers for disadvantaged residents, said he could see no more noble use for its five buildings than to add to the city’s limited stock of affordable housing.

“We see a need for work-force units that are close to mass transit and would create housing for people who would not be able to buy into the private market,” Mr. Brown said. “We do not think these buildings, which are in very poor shape, merit restoration.”

There is a growing need for more affordable housing not only in Yonkers, but also throughout the Hudson Valley, according to Jonathan Drapkin, the president and chief executive of Pattern for Progress, a regional nonprofit research and planning institute, which last month held its second annual housing conference at Marist College in Poughkeepsie.

The group supports a mix of high-end and affordable housing, Mr. Drapkin said.

But the need for affordable housing and the need to preserve a vital part of Yonkers’ past need not be mutually exclusive, said Terry Joshi, one of the residents who petitioned for the landmark designation. “Right now, two good forces are pitted against one another,” Ms. Joshi said, “and it doesn’t have to be that way.”

According to the landmarks board and the City Council, Yonkers’ designation for the block dictates that only the facades of the buildings be preserved. Ms. Joshi explained that if the Greyston Foundation retained the detailing on the buildings and reduced the height of the proposed condo complex, it would still be able to build affordable housing there.

Some of the trim on the 13 buildings is gone, and in some places, the facades are worn and even covered over. But what remains is representative of the Italianate, Renaissance Revival, Eastlake and Queen Anne styles that were popular in the post-Civil War period, according to the application filed with the landmarks board. For the Greyston Foundation, preserving the facades of its buildings will be an expensive proposition.

“The changes will add at least another $1 million to our costs,” Mr. Brown said, “and because this is affordable housing, we can’t increase the price of the units.” The foundation, which is relying on a combination of state, county and private money, is seeking additional financing to proceed with the below-market-rate ownership units.

Once Greyston revises its plans, it will resubmit its proposal to the city’s zoning board. The plans will also have to be approved by the planning and the landmarks boards, and then the foundation will need to apply to the City Council for a special permit.

There is yet another variable at work as the question of how to best reuse real estate near the waterfront plays out, Mr. Brown observed. The development proposal by Struever Fidelco Cappelli, a partnership of three major East Coast developers, would transform swaths of this city with four million square feet of new construction, including stores, condominiums, a minor league baseball park, parking garages and a movie theater.

The proposal has stirred concern among residents who fear that too much of the old Yonkers might get torn down to make way for the new.

Chuck Lesnick, the president of the City Council and a vigorous supporter of the recent decision to create the landmark, said: “Any one developer can create a Disneyland Main Street. The fact is that we also have real buildings with real history, and we must preserve those authentic sites.”

His view is that the new buildings should be built “in and among Yonkers’ historic gems.”
398 2008-07-13 Those tensions were apparent in the interview as well, as Mr. McCain offered a variety of answers — sometimes nuanced in their phrasing, sometimes not — about his views on social issues.

Mr. McCain, who with his wife, Cindy, has an adopted daughter, said flatly that he opposed allowing gay couples to adopt. “I think that we’ve proven that both parents are important in the success of a family so, no, I don’t believe in gay adoption,” he said.

But he declined to take a specific position when asked whether only evolution should be taught in public schools. “It’s up to the school boards,” he said. “That’s why we have local control over education.” Mr. McCain has said he believes in evolution.

Many social conservatives strenuously oppose California’s decision to allow same-sex marriage. But Mr. McCain, who also opposes same-sex marriage, has always said that the issue is up to the states, and in the interview he said he would stick to that position as president even if California chose to continue allowing gay marriage after putting the matter to a statewide vote in November. “I respect the right of the states to make those decisions,” he said.

Asked if he considered himself an evangelical Christian, Mr. McCain responded, “I consider myself a Christian.”

“I attend church,” he said. “My faith has sustained me in very difficult times.” Asked how often he attended, he responded: “Not as often as I should.” He has recently been photographed going to church as his campaign has begun to make public the times he attends services.

Mr. McCain sat down for the interview, conducted after he held a town-hall-style meeting on economic issues, at the end of a week that his campaign had hoped would mark a turning point in a candidacy that has been plagued with missteps and often seemed unsure of its message.

After a period in which his campaign again endured internal battling and staff upheaval, Mr. McCain argued that competing tensions in an organization — be it a presidential campaign or a White House — can be good thing, up to a point.

“Because of the bubble that a president is in, and the bubble that a candidate is in, sometimes you find out afterwards something that, ‘Oh boy, I wish I had heard thus and such and so and so,’ ” he said. “So I appreciate and want some of the tension. I don’t want too much of it.”

When asked if he felt that it was more difficult to run against Mr. Obama because of the sensitivities of race, Mr. McCain responded wryly: “I’d like to make a joke, but I can’t.”

“We are in a situation today where all words are parsed, all comments are diagnosed and looked at for whatever effect they might have,” he said. “We have to feed the beast, the hourly cable shows, the instant news in the blogs and all that. That is just the situation that we’re in, and I’m not complaining about it, because that would be both foolish and a waste of time.”

Mr. McCain went on to say that he did not consider running against Mr. Obama any more complicated than running against, say, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. “No, I have to base my approach to Senator Obama as one of respect,” he said. “As long as I do that, then I don’t have to worry about any language I might use.”

He said, ruefully, that he had not mastered how to use the Internet and relied on his wife and aides like Mark Salter, a senior adviser, and Brooke Buchanan, his press secretary, to get him online to read newspapers (though he prefers reading those the old-fashioned way) and political Web sites and blogs.

“They go on for me,” he said. “I am learning to get online myself, and I will have that down fairly soon, getting on myself. I don’t expect to be a great communicator, I don’t expect to set up my own blog, but I am becoming computer literate to the point where I can get the information that I need.”

Asked which blogs he read, he said: “Brooke and Mark show me Drudge, obviously. Everybody watches, for better or for worse, Drudge. Sometimes I look at Politico. Sometimes RealPolitics.”

At that point, Mrs. McCain, who had been intensely engaged with her BlackBerry, looked up and chastised her husband. “Meghan’s blog!” she said, reminding him of their daughter’s blog on his campaign Web site. “Meghan’s blog,” he said sheepishly.

As he answered questions, sipping a cup of coffee with his tie tight around his neck, his aides stared down at their BlackBerries.

As they tapped, Mr. McCain said he did not use a BlackBerry, though he regularly reads messages on those of his aides. “I don’t e-mail, I’ve never felt the particular need to e-mail,” Mr. McCain said.

The interview underscored the extent to which Mr. McCain defies easy ideological characterization, a fact that might help him in a general election but has been a persistent cause of concern among some conservatives. Mr. McCain has long argued that his stances are evidence of his political independence; many of his critics say it is more an example of a politician deftly trying to shade positions to win an election in complicated electoral terrain.

Mr. McCain said he believed that the United States government had an obligation to intervene to stop genocide, though only if it was clear that a solution was possible. Mr. McCain also said that the Federal Reserve was right to step in during the collapse of the investment firm Bear Stearns, and that he would similarly support some sort of aggressive action to avert a meltdown of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation’s two largest mortgage finance companies, should that prove necessary.

“I don’t know if a government, quote, bailout is necessary now,” he said. “Because there are other courses of action that are being explored in order to ensure their survival. But I don’t believe we can afford to have them fail, because of their impact on the overall economy.”

Asked to name a conservative model, he skipped over the suggestions of three names typically associated with the conservative movement — Ronald Reagan, George W. Bush and Barry Goldwater, the founder of the modern-day conservative movement who occupied the Senate seat Mr. McCain holds today — to settle on Theodore Roosevelt.

Mr. McCain has long admired Roosevelt, and in the interview he identified with him as a fellow reformer and environmentalist and also touched on his assertive foreign policy. The choice might to some extent be an indication of how Mr. McCain would like to position himself now that he has moved from the primary to the general election.

“I believe less governance is the best governance, and that government should not do what the free enterprise and private enterprise and individual entrepreneurship and the states can do, but I also believe there is a role for government,” Mr. McCain said. He added: “Government should take care of those in America who can not take care of themselves.”
399 2008-07-13 In essence, Apple, having investigated itself, said to curious public onlookers: “Nothing to see here, folks. Move along, move along.”

The report’s acknowledgment that Mr. Jobs “was aware or recommended” backdating was quite extraordinary, as failure to disclose and expense those grants would make company officers who were involved vulnerable to charges of fraud.

Backdating option grants for the benefit of others, not for himself, is what led to criminal charges of conspiracy and fraud for another Silicon Valley chief executive, Gregory L. Reyes of Brocade Communications Systems. During Mr. Reyes’s five-week-long trial last year, his lawyers did not deny his overseeing of backdating grants and the falsification of records the backdating entailed; they instead argued that Mr. Reyes did not understand accounting rules governing options.

This contention flew in the face of the tech industry’s huge lobbying effort, beginning in the early 1990s, to forestall requirements to treat stock options as a compensation expense. The one area of accounting that Silicon Valley chief executives know well is stock options.

Two weeks after Apple released its report, describing Mr. Jobs’s involvement in backdating option grants whose accounting implications he supposedly did not appreciate, there was Mr. Reyes in federal court, receiving a prison sentence of 21 months — for his involvement in backdating option grants whose accounting implications he supposedly did not appreciate.

Mr. Reyes was a trophy bagged by then United States Attorney Kevin V. Ryan. But Mr. Ryan resigned from his position in February 2007, and no backdating-related indictments have been issued by the office since that month. The attorney’s office declined to comment on the status of investigations related to Apple option grants. A spokesman for the company declined to comment.

Civil actions are proceeding, however. The S.E.C. brought charges against Ms. Heinen and Mr. Andersen in a civil suit in April 2007. Mr. Andersen settled with the S.E.C, without admitting wrongdoing, and agreed to pay $3.5 million in disgorgement and penalties. This left Ms. Heinen alone to go to trial next April to face allegations of backdating two large option grants and then altering company records to conceal it. Based on statements made by her lawyers, Ms. Heinen does not seem inclined to take the fall for others. Her testimony in trial could bring Mr. Jobs, with whom she worked directly, into the courtroom.

If Mr. Jobs finds himself on the witness stand, he will have a difficult time pleading ignorance. Mr. Anderson, the former chief financial officer of Apple, released a statement last year through his lawyers in which he said that in 2001, when Mr. Jobs was preparing the large options grant for the executive team that would end up being backdated, he explicitly warned Mr. Jobs that the “grant would have to be priced based on the date of the actual board agreement or there could be an accounting charge.”

A CLASS-ACTION lawsuit contending securities fraud and filed last month may force the Apple board to pay some attention. The case, Martin Vogel et al v. Apple Inc. et al, centers on backdating of stock option grants and lists Mr. Jobs among the defendants. For the plaintiffs, this is a reformulated second try; their earlier suit against Apple over options backdating was dismissed last year.

The plaintiffs have focused, not surprisingly, on an improperly dated options grant of 15 million shares received by Mr. Jobs in 2001. (All figures are split-adjusted.) To see just how large a block of options this was, consider the S.E.C.’s allegation, mentioned in passing in its own suit against Ms. Heinen, that this one grant, whose favorable backdating was not reported as required, enabled Apple to avoid reporting $20.3 million in pretax compensation expense and to overstate its operating income by 47.1 percent in its 2002 fiscal year.

Mr. Jobs never exercised those options because he arranged with the board in 2003 to cancel these and earlier options — a total of 55 million options — in exchange for receiving 10 million shares in restricted stock worth $74.75 million at the time. His options at that point were far underwater — 40 million had an exercise price of almost $22 when shares were trading for $7.50.

When I asked an Apple spokesman last week to inquire why Mr. Jobs decided to have his stock options canceled, the spokesman called back the next day to say the company had no comment on that specific matter.

Mr. Jobs plainly did not foresee the good days that were ahead for Apple; on Friday, its shares closed at $172.58. His decision to exchange many stock options for far fewer shares of restricted stock, swapping potential upside for certainty, resulted in his losing more than $6 billion in potential gains.

Then again, it has worked out well enough for him. Ridding himself of those options before they become the stuff of unsavory headlines? Beautiful timing.
400 2008-07-13 Melissa A. Raz is to be married to Andrew P. Bidlack on Sunday at Regatta Place, an event space in Newport, R.I. Charles D. Raz, the bride’s brother, a Universal Life minister, will officiate.

The bride, 30, was until this month the business manager for the Office of External Relations and Development at Columbia Business School. She has also taken a leave from a master’s program in speech-language pathology at the university. In 2006, the bride, a soprano, sang with the Mirror Visions Ensemble at Merkin Hall and played Tzeitel in “Fiddler on the Roof” at the Natchez Festival of Music in Natchez, Miss. She graduated from Yale and received a master’s degree in vocal performance from Rice University.

She is the daughter of Rosemary E. Raz and Charles A. Raz of Colorado Springs. Her father is a director of an information technology group at Compassion International, a children’s charity.

The bridegroom, 28, a tenor, is on an Adler fellowship with the San Francisco Opera. He made his debut with the company in May as both the lamplighter and the drunkard in Rachel Portman’s “Little Prince,” and recently played the role of Arturo in its production of Donizetti’s “Lucia di Lammermoor” and Odoardo in Handel’s “Ariodante.” He graduated summa cum laude from Temple University.

He is the son of Cheryl M. Bidlack and Duane L. Bidlack of Chambersburg, Pa. His father is a chemical engineer at Letterkenny Army Depot there.

Ms. Raz and Mr. Bidlack met in 2003 while performing in the opera “Nozze di Figaro” in Lebanon, N.H. While that appearance may have put them on the same stage, romance was not in the script, because both were dating other people.
401 2008-07-13 From its superefficient public transportation to its cool bars and clubs, just about everything in Stockholm seems expensive. Some respite can be found at the Columbus Hotel, housed in a late 18th-century building, where simple doubles start at a moderate (for Stockholm, anyway) 1,595 kronor on weekdays ($264 at 6 kronor to $1), slipping to 1,295 kronor ($215) on some low-occupancy weekends, and where even less expensive rooms in the so-called Annexe bring doubles down to less than three-quarters of that price, a real bargain for this part of town.

Just two blocks from Medborgarplatsen, one of the coolest squares in Sodermalm, a neighborhood to the south of Old Town, which has emerged as one of the favorite destinations for music, bars and night life. For access to public transportation and options for night life, you’d have a hard time doing better.

Varied: young indie-rock fans from England, flying in to check out concerts for the weekend, as well as romantic couples on a budget, conventioneers and businesspeople.

Spare, yet elegant, with light hardwood floors and antique fixtures dating back to the building’s founding in 1780. The 70 rooms include 40 in the hotel and 30 in the Annexe. There is one very attractive suite, costing 2,495 kronor midweek (lower on weekends).

In the case of my room in the Annexe, it was in the hallway but right next door and easily accessible; even with full occupancy in the hotel there was no wait. (For the brushing of teeth and other hygiene basics, a few Annexe rooms have sinks.) The bathrooms in the doubles I asked to see looked slightly cramped, with just a curtain separating the shower area.

Free Wi-Fi in the hotel lobby was accessible from my second-floor room, which had extra pillows and blankets, a direct-dial telephone and a TV with BBC News in English.

None, nor is there any restaurant on site. A few plates of pasta and other hot and cold ready meals for 85 kronor are available from the front desk. Hypothetically, you could take one back up to your room.
402 2008-07-13 Mr. Mortenson found his calling in 1993 after he failed in an attempt to climb K2, a Himalayan peak, and stumbled weakly into a poor Muslim village. The peasants nursed him back to health, and he promised to repay them by building the village a school.

Scrounging the money was a nightmare — his 580 fund-raising letters to prominent people generated one check, from Tom Brokaw — and Mr. Mortenson ended up selling his beloved climbing equipment and car. But when the school was built, he kept going. Now his aid group, the Central Asia Institute, has 74 schools in operation. His focus is educating girls.

To get a school, villagers must provide the land and the labor to assure a local “buy-in,” and so far the Taliban have not bothered his schools. One anti-American mob rampaged through Baharak, Afghanistan, attacking aid groups — but stopped at the school that local people had just built with Mr. Mortenson. “This is our school,” the mob leaders decided, and they left it intact.

Mr. Mortenson has had setbacks, including being kidnapped for eight days in Pakistan’s wild Waziristan region. It would be naïve to think that a few dozen schools will turn the tide in Afghanistan or Pakistan.

Still, he notes that the Taliban recruits the poor and illiterate, and he also argues that when women are educated they are more likely to restrain their sons. Five of his teachers are former Taliban, and he says it was their mothers who persuaded them to leave the Taliban; that is one reason he is passionate about educating girls.

So I have this fantasy: Suppose that the United States focused less on blowing things up in Pakistan’s tribal areas and more on working through local aid groups to build schools, simultaneously cutting tariffs on Pakistani and Afghan manufactured exports. There would be no immediate payback, but a better-educated and more economically vibrant Pakistan would probably be more resistant to extremism.

“Schools are a much more effective bang for the buck than missiles or chasing some Taliban around the country,” says Mr. Mortenson, who is an Army veteran.

Each Tomahawk missile that the United States fires in Afghanistan costs at least $500,000. That’s enough for local aid groups to build more than 20 schools, and in the long run those schools probably do more to destroy the Taliban.

The Pentagon, which has a much better appreciation for the limits of military power than the Bush administration as a whole, placed large orders for “Three Cups of Tea” and invited Mr. Mortenson to speak.

“I am convinced that the long-term solution to terrorism in general, and Afghanistan specifically, is education,” Lt. Col. Christopher Kolenda, who works on the Afghan front lines, said in an e-mail in which he raved about Mr. Mortenson’s work. “The conflict here will not be won with bombs but with books. ... The thirst for education here is palpable.”

Military force is essential in Afghanistan to combat the Taliban. But over time, in Pakistan and Afghanistan alike, the best tonic against militant fundamentalism will be education and economic opportunity.

So a lone Montanan staying at the cheapest guest houses has done more to advance U.S. interests in the region than the entire military and foreign policy apparatus of the Bush administration.
403 2008-07-13 To the Sports Editor:     The contests at Wimbledon brought up an issue that some have lamented for years: whatever happened to sportsmanship?...
404 2008-07-13 To the Editor:      Re ''Help on Four Legs, Sometimes Followed by Confusion'' (June 29), about an effort to clarify city law on providing access to people with service animals:...
405 2008-07-13 GISSEN--Doris . Taken from us one year ago. You will be forever missed and forever loved as you live on in our hearts and minds... The Gissen Family: Herbert, Melanie, Amy, Jay, Lynn, Alexandra, Joseph, Samuel and Lillian...
406 2008-07-14 The study found problems with the Department of Sanitation’s program for cleaning up vacant lots, which remain significant eyesores in low-income neighborhoods....
407 2008-07-14 A full-sized replica of the 1978 World Series trophy, made for Thurman Munson, sold Monday for $207,000 at the MLB All-Star FanFest's auction at the Javits Center. Slide Show: Munson's Baseball Memorabilia Munson's 1977 World Series ring sold for ...
408 2008-07-14 How much will the McCains make from the $52 billion sale of Anheuser-Busch to the Belgian brewer InBev?...
409 2008-07-14 Microsoft, Yahoo and Carl C. Icahn can't even agree on the basic facts about what happened last weekend. No wonder they can't engineer some kind of deal....
410 2008-07-14 Miss USA 2007, Rachel Smith, and Miss USA 2008, Crystle Stewart, slip on stage during the Miss Universe pageant. (Eduardo Verdugo/AP Photo; Hoang Dinh Nam/AFP/Getty Images) Forget interview skills and tap dance training; American beauty queens nee...
411 2008-07-14 Up Next in Op-Ed Contributors
412 2008-07-14 If you are a Missouri politician, you no doubt feel a bit foolish this morning. Anheuser-Busch talked a good game about Budweiser being an American treasure, and its chief executive, August A. Busch IV, certainly played the foreign buyer xenophobi...
413 2008-07-14 Following up on Senator John McCain's joke, the latest attack report and more....
414 2008-07-14 Oh, no! Anheuser-Busch, it appears, is about to be acquired by InBev, which is Belgian-Brazilian (?). Belgian Bud! Next thing we'll be talking about French bourbon. Oh, wait: "I'll tell you one thing," said the 21-year-old concrete worker during h...
415 2008-07-14 The F.C.C. may mandate clearer disclosure of product placement deals....
416 2008-07-14 Shareholders searching for détente in the battle between Yahoo and Microsoft are unlikely to find it in Microsoft's new proposal to buy Yahoo's search business, one the Internet company swiftly rejected on Saturday. The proposal made late last we...
417 2008-07-14 According to figures compiled by HSBC Private Bank, some familiar names among activist hedge funds are suffering a record worst start to the year, with some losses posted at more than 20 percent. Citing the HSBC findings, The Telegraph reported th...
418 2008-07-14 If Barack Obama were a stock, hedge fund managers would probably be snapping it up. While Wall Street players are traditionally seen as leaning toward Republicans, new data gathered by the Center for Responsive Politics show that employees of hedg...
419 2008-07-14 Credit Suisse has launched operations in Pakistan and will offer equity research and research sales to institutional clients. It also aims to expand its operations to include full broking-dealing services, FinanceAsia reported. Credit Suisse expec...
420 2008-07-14 A former Morgan Stanley banker has been arrested and charged with insider trading in Hong Kong, the local securities watchdog said. Du Jun, ex-managing director of the investment bank, appeared in a Hong Kong court Friday but did not enter a plea ...
421 2008-07-14 More of your user-generated comedy (send via the comment link below): Benihana founder Rocky Aoki is dead at 69. The memorial service was a bit awkward. Guests were forced to sit with people they didn't know. The Green Party has nominated Cynthia ...
422 2008-07-14 Too often, animal-rights supporters seem to care about animals to the exclusion of people. Leona Helmsley epitomized this strain when she left $12 million to her dog and instructed that virtually all of her multibillion-dollar estate be used to care for dogs.

The anti-animal rights camp, however, does not come off much better. Many base their opposition on the Bible — specifically, the verse in Genesis granting man “dominion” over “every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.” It’s hard to see why that should be interpreted as divine endorsement for using chimps in crash tests, or why, even if it were, it should guide secular law.

Animal rights opponents often rely on tired “slippery slope” arguments — that if apes have the right not to be abused, soon goldfish will be able to sue their owners for not changing the water. Even Mr. Singer, who is often branded an animal-rights extremist, says species should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. American laws — notably the Chimpanzee Health Improvement, Maintenance and Protection Act — already do this.

Much of the opposition to animal rights is really economic. The campaign against the anti-cruelty referendum that will be on the California ballot this November — to prohibit keeping calves, hens and pigs in inhumanely small cages — is being financed in large part by egg and meat producers.

Strip away the goofier rhetoric of the ape-rights activists, and their claim is straightforward. Great apes are biologically very close to humans; chimps and humans share about 98 percent of their DNA. Apes have complex communication skills and close emotional bonds. They experience loneliness and sorrow. They deserve some respect.

It sounds odd to say that apes have rights — or to call a chimpanzee a “person.” As a legal matter, though, it is not such a stretch. People in irreversible comas have rights. Even corporations are recognized as “persons,” with free speech and equal protection rights, and the ability to sue and be sued.

If apes are given rights, they are not going to get the same ones as humans — just rights that are deemed appropriate to their status. Matthew’s supporters are trying to have him declared a person because his animal sanctuary has had financial trouble, and they want him to be able to accept donations for his own support. It’s hard to see the harm in that.

Critics object that recognizing rights for apes would diminish human beings. But it seems more likely that showing respect for apes would elevate humans at the same time.

American law is becoming increasingly cruel. The Supreme Court recently ruled that states are not obliged to administer lethal injections in ways that avoid unnecessary risk that inmates will suffer great pain. If apes are given the right to humane treatment, it just might become harder to deny that same right to their human cousins.
423 2008-07-14 Mr. Farber is a golfing buddy of former President Bill Clinton, and has raised money for the Clinton Presidential Library. In return, Mr. Clinton came to nearby Aurora, Colo., to speak to businessmen at the request of Mr. Farber. Members of Mr. Farber’s firm have donated around $1.1 million to candidates, parties and political action committees since 2005, with the majority going to Democrats. And Mr. Farber chaired former Gov. Roy Romer’s winning campaigns in Colorado.

But his efforts to raise money for the Denver convention have been marred by missed deadlines as Mr. Farber has struggled to get corporations and wealthy individuals to open their wallets in a shaky economy. And Mr. Obama last week added to the challenge, with his campaign saying the candidate would give his acceptance speech outside the convention hall, distancing himself from party insiders, donors and corporate leaders who typically dominate convention week.

In raising money for the convention, Mr. Farber said he was not selling access to the many politicians attending the event, but promoting regional pride and the chance to participate in a historical event.

“We’re selling a convention and we’re selling a chance to showcase Denver as a great area,” Mr. Farber said. “If corporate America wants to be a part of it, we welcome them as partners. It’s a question of becoming part of history.”

As a result of Mr. Farber’s efforts, dozens of organizations have signed up as corporate sponsors of the Denver convention, including six that are lobbying clients of his firm: UnitedHealth Group, AT&T, Comcast, the National Association of Home Builders, Western Union and Google. In return for these donations, which can go up to $1 million or more, sponsors are promised prominent display space for corporate marketing and access to elected officials and Democratic leaders at a large number of parties and receptions.

Mr. Farber is now going through his client list — and also approaching nonclients — in his search for cash. Conventions are one of the last remaining ways for corporations to put big money into politics, since they are banned from giving directly to candidates and parties.

Even more, corporations can give unlimited amounts of money to host committees, in contrast to individuals who are restricted in the size of their political donations. Corporations can also take a tax deduction on their donations to the host committee, but individuals are barred from deducting political contributions.

“Farber has a dual role,” said Steve Weissman, a policy analyst at the Campaign Finance Institute who has studied convention finances. “He is a businessman and a community activist, and yet he is connected to a law firm that is one of the biggest in Washington. When any of Steve Farber’s clients have a problem, federal elected officials will feel obligated to listen to him if he approaches them later on federal policy interests.”

Although he is a Democrat, Mr. Farber’s firm draws political talent from both sides of the aisle. Its lobbyists include Jim Nicholson, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee; former Senator Hank Brown, Republican of Colorado; and Judy Black, wife of Charlie Black, Senator John McCain’s chief adviser, and a major bundler of donations for Mr. McCain.

Others who have passed through the doors at his firm include two former cabinet secretaries: Gale Norton, interior secretary in the Bush administration, and Federico F. Peña, transportation secretary in the Clinton administration. Mr. Farber’s firm also represents the former Liggett tobacco company and a trade group seeking to retain tax breaks for wealthy hedge fund investors.

Most recently, Mr. Farber’s firm joined forces, through mergers, with the leading law firm in Las Vegas representing gambling companies and the leading firm in Los Angeles representing water interests.

“I have my list of companies, not only my client list, but companies throughout Colorado and the Rocky Mountain region,” Mr. Farber said in a telephone interview. “We’ve got offices in Las Vegas and California, so I have clients that we can contact, and I have friends of clients that I intend to contact. And if they have given to the convention already, I try to get them to double their contribution.”

Mr. Obama’s well-publicized statements denouncing special interest money have done little to dampen Mr. Farber’s efforts. In Mr. Farber’s view, money to the convention — an issue Mr. Obama has not addressed directly — is different from money to the candidates themselves.

“The money to the convention doesn’t go to the candidates or the Democratic National Committee, but to the host committee to pay for the cost of the convention,” Mr. Farber said. “So what he has said doesn’t inhibit it.”

In fact, given the struggle that Mr. Farber has had — the host committee is $11 million short of its fund-raising goal — he could welcome a helping hand from the Obama campaign, which, so far, has been more focused on raising money for Mr. Obama, the party and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton than for the convention.

“The Obama campaign has been unbelievable in their ability to fund-raise,” Mr. Farber said. “So if they can encourage their supporters to send money to the host committee, it would be helpful.”

Mr. Farber said he was not working with the Obama campaign. “They have a list of contributors and could suggest that we contact come of those people, people they could ask to help with the convention,” he said.

In the absence of that help, Mr. Farber said he was “still talking to the corporate community.”

“What I am now selling is Senator Obama and the excitement he has created in his candidacy,” he added.
424 2008-07-14 Yahoo had begun settlement talks with Mr. Icahn several weeks ago, with Mr. Icahn seeking four seats on the board, people briefed on the matter said. But those talks are unlikely to resume.

What has emerged in the two months since Microsoft withdrew its $47.5 billion bid for all of Yahoo is a complicated dance between the two companies, longtime rivals that have unsuccessfully battled Google’s dominance in the Internet search.

Yahoo has since signed a search advertising pact with Google, one it says would generate $250 million to $450 million in operating cash flow in its first year. But Yahoo has indicated that it is willing to discuss a sale of the entire company at a lower price than the $37 a share it had once demanded.

As previously reported, Microsoft unveiled a more aggressive and hostile approach last Monday when it implicitly backed Mr. Icahn’s efforts to remove Yahoo’s board. While the software company said it would be willing to make another offer for the search business or the whole company — in that order — it would not negotiate with Yahoo’s current board.

But it was superseded by the Microsoft-Icahn offer. The talks began on Thursday with a series of phone calls, including one from Mr. Icahn to Mr. Bostock, in which the activist investor claimed to speak for Microsoft, according to people briefed on the matter who refused to be identified because the negotiations are confidential.

The offer on the table was a revision of Microsoft’s previous bid for Yahoo’s search business, in which Yahoo would effectively outsource the advertising that runs alongside search results. This time, however, Microsoft would shorten the 10-year agreement to five years, while guaranteeing that Yahoo would earn $2.3 billion in annual revenue for five years, up from the three-year guarantee of the original proposal. The contract could be renewed for another five years.

Microsoft also proposed having Yahoo sell its Asian assets. It also proposed making an equity investment of $3.9 billion and a preferred debt investment of $2.8 billion.

But the offer proved tough for Yahoo to swallow, these people said. It would have effectively led to the sale of Yahoo’s search advertising business to Microsoft, leaving the remaining operations in Mr. Icahn’s hands. Yahoo also believed that the promised revenue of the latest offer was less than it would earn through the Google partnership.

On Friday, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, made his own phone call to Mr. Bostock, in what one person briefed on the matter said was a curt conversation. Mr. Bostock asked Mr. Ballmer for more time to evaluate the offer, citing the complexity of separating Yahoo’s search business from the rest of the business.

Mr. Ballmer refused, giving him 24 hours. “There is no more gas in the tank,” he told Mr. Bostock, according to this person.

Yahoo’s board convened with its advisers on Saturday in a meeting that lasted more than four hours before informing Microsoft that it had rejected the bid. It then reiterated its willingness to sell the whole company at $33 a share.

“While this type of erratic and unpredictable behavior is consistent with what we have come to expect from Microsoft, we will not be bludgeoned into a transaction that is not in the best interests of our stockholders,” Mr. Bostock said in a statement.
425 2008-07-14 PARIS — Not long ago, European advertising executives seemed confident that they could ride out the storm in the United States economy and the global rise in food and energy costs.

Now, they and the media owners who rely on their business are worried that European marketers will slash ad budgets, as many of their counterparts have already done in America.

“Definitely, if our clients suffer from higher petrol costs, spending is going to be affected,” said Valérie Accary, president of CLM/BBDO, an agency based in Paris owned by the Omnicom Group. “So far we haven’t seen it, but the second half is a big concern.”

ZenithOptimedia, a media buying agency that is part of Publicis Groupe, recently downgraded its forecast for ad spending in Western Europe, saying it would grow by 3.7 percent this year — barely more than the inflation rate. That is still better than the 3.5 percent growth expected in North America, but a reduction of two-tenths of a percentage point from the previous forecast, issued only three months earlier.

That may not seem like a large revision. But the new numbers mask bigger shifts in spending, as advertisers allocate more of their budgets to the Internet, cutting their allocations to broadcast and print advertising.
426 2008-07-14 “CSI: NY” is only one of Cisco’s many TV and movie credits: the company keeps a long list on its Web site of where its products have appeared, from Fox’s “24” and NBC’s “Heroes” to films like “You, Me and Dupree” and “I Am Legend.” Usually the sponsor’s brand is hard to miss: on a “24” episode, for example, the words “Cisco TelePresence” appear in a close-up that fills the screen.

Mr. Adelstein argues that more disclosure is necessary. He suggested considering that the brand names appear in a minimum font size, and for a minimum length of time, at the beginning or end of a show. For now, it is not clear whether the F.C.C. will take action; it is soliciting comments for the next few months, and may or may not issue a ruling after that.

But in Hollywood and on Madison Avenue, the F.C.C.’s concerns appear archaic and intrusive. The type of pop-up warnings that the F.C.C. is considering would “completely disrupt the entertainment experience,” said Tom Meyer, the president of Davie Brown, a leading brand management agency in Los Angeles. “If their ultimate goal is, can they do something that kills integration, advertisers’ ability to integrate into a show, that would do it,” he said.

Some viewers, too, say the F.C.C.’s concerns are a little over the top. Realistically, does anyone wonder why Simon Cowell has a huge Coke cup in front of him on every “American Idol”? “I think that most people in the United States know that there’s some financial arrangement there,” said Ambar Rao, a professor of marketing at Washington University in St. Louis. He said that he did not oppose disclosure at the beginning or end of a show, but “people watch a show for entertainment, and if they’re constantly being reminded that somebody has paid for this product or that product, it just takes away from the experience.”

With agencies like Davie Brown becoming more sophisticated and demanding about how their clients’ products are depicted, the issue has grown murkier. These days consumer brands not only appear on shows, but are also elaborately woven into the plot, with advertisers calling a lot of the shots. Their agencies approve television scripts, suggest plots that hinge on the product, attend and critique the episode shoots, and review the rough cuts of episodes.

“We almost consider ourselves to be the junior writers on the show,” Mr. Meyer said.

Television writers are not happy about this development — the Writers Guild of America West sent a letter to the F.C.C. urging that an on-screen crawl disclose a placement at the moment it occurs — but the networks and producers are thrilled with the extra income they get from product placement.

A one-episode integration on a moderately popular show costs at least $100,000 but rarely goes over $500,000, Mr. Meyer said. Then there is the cost of buying commercials, which the network usually requires.

Mr. Meyer, a former Paramount Pictures executive, has been at Davie Brown for almost a decade and has seen product placement evolve well beyond its beginnings as a prize for a game-show contestant.

For instance, when Staples was introducing a new paper-shredding device called the MailMate in 2006, Davie Brown approached the producers of “The Office” on NBC. The agency wound up striking a two-episode deal: in the first episode, the character Kevin Malone was given the responsibility of shredding paper with the MailMate; in the second, the character Dwight Schrute took a job at Staples.

The Davie Brown team wanted to emphasize that the shredder was small, so the shredder sat on Kevin’s desk. It wanted to emphasize that it was sturdy, so Kevin shredded not only paper, but also his credit card. And it wanted to emphasize that the shredder was available only at Staples.

“This is where the writers come up with their own ideas, which we all loved,” Mr. Meyer said.

The episode closed with Kevin shredding lettuce and making it into a salad; when a colleague asked where he got the salad, he replied, “Staples.”

“Everyone has an opinion now on whether or not we’re deceiving the public,” Mr. Meyer said. But “these shows have always been funded by advertising, and if advertising is changing, it has to be understood that the mechanics of how we deliver advertising must change, or advertisers will walk away.”

Davie Brown goes so far as to ask for final script approval. Kevin McAuliffe, the vice president for branded entertainment for NBC Universal’s cable properties, which include Bravo and USA Network, said that creativity always comes first, but that product placement has a strong influence.

“Nine times out of 10, we have a client that goes with us to the shoot, so they see the place, they see the roughs, they see the placing,” Mr. McAuliffe said, adding, “we’ve actually made changes on set” because of advertiser feedback.

As the F.C.C. seeks comments on how to disclose products, Mr. Meyer of Davie Brown said he would not object to a more overt disclosure, but not during the show itself. Three of the largest advertising-industry associations are pushing for the F.C.C. to stall a decision on disclosure.

The ideal disclosure, Mr. Meyer said, is one that “doesn’t interrupt the entertainment experience, but achieves the brand’s objective, so they’re still willing to fund the television model.”
427 2008-07-14 Stephen L. Carter, in his laudable call for a renewed effort to address race and poverty, does not adequately acknowledge the important role that affirmative action has played in unraveling the two.

I speak from experience. Raised on welfare by a great-aunt, tracked in the lower rung in the dilapidated public school system in Camden, N.J., I was bound for a marginal economic existence — if I managed to survive Vietnam.

Through affirmative action programs, I got myself into college and then into Yale Law School, where I crossed paths with Mr. Carter.

The dramatic growth of the black middle class is attributable to the opportunities that were provided to talented people who would otherwise have suffered from our societal legacy.

The true “affirmative distraction” is a false opposition between race and class. So-called post-race institutions that have experimented with class-only affirmative action have found that they are no substitute for removing the unique disadvantages that are associated with being both nonwhite and poor.

The writer is an associate professor of American politics and constitutional law at Vassar College.
428 2008-07-14 The seizure of the quarry is a measure of how in recent months, as the Pakistani military has pulled back under a series of peace deals, the Pakistani Taliban have extended their reach through more of the rugged territory in northern Pakistan known as the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, or FATA.

Today the Taliban not only settle disputes in their consolidated domain but they also levy taxes, smuggle drugs and other contraband, and impose their own brand of rough justice, complete with courts and prisons.

From the security of this border region, they deploy their fighters and suicide bombers in two directions: against NATO and American forces over the border in southern Afghanistan, and against Pakistani forces — police, army and intelligence officials — in major Pakistani cities.

The quarry operation here in the Mohmand tribal district, strategically situated between the city of Peshawar and the Afghan border, is a new effort by the Taliban to harness the abundant natural resources of a region where there are plenty of other mining operations for coal, gold, copper and chromate.

Of all the minerals in the tribal areas, the marble from Ziarat is one of the most highly prized for use in expensive floors and walls in Pakistan, and in limited quantities abroad.

A government body, the FATA Development Authority, failed over the last several years to mediate a dispute between the Masaud and Gurbaz subtribes over how the mining rights to the marble should be allocated, according to Pakistani government officials familiar with the quarry who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the effort’s failure.

A new government mining corporation, Pakistan Stone Development Company, offered last year to invest in modern mining machinery, but even with the lure of added value, the development authority could not sort out the feud.

The arguments were fierce because the tribes knew that the Ziarat marble was of particularly fine texture and purity, comparable to Italian Carrara marble, according to an assessment done for the FATA Development Authority.

The Taliban came eager for a share of the business. Their reputation for brutality and the weakness of the local government authorities allowed the Taliban to settle the dispute in short order.

The Taliban decided that one mountain in the Ziarat area belonged to the Masaud division of the main Safi tribe, and said that the Gurbaz subtribe would be rewarded with another mountain, Mr. Zaman, the contractor, said.

The mountain assigned to the Masauds was divided into 30 portions, he said, and each of six villages in the area was assigned five of the 30 portions. Mr. Zaman said the Taliban demanded about $1,500 commission upfront for each portions, giving the insurgents a quick $45,000.

The Taliban also demanded a tax of about $7 on each truckload of marble, he said. With a constant flow of trucks out of the quarry, the Taliban are now collecting up to $500 a day, Mr. Zaman said.

A senior Pakistani official and a Pakistani businessman who works in the marble industry, neither of whom wanted to be identified for fear of retaliation from the Taliban, confirmed the account.

Today the quarry runs as a relatively rudimentary affair using dynamite, which harms the marble and renders production extremely inefficient. Antiquated trucks grind their way up the steep, tiered roadways carved in the mountainside to ferry the rock away. But the quarry’s reopening has given something to everyone.

The local tribes are profiting along with the Taliban. Once the trucks reach the processing plants, the government, too, collects a hefty tax, nearly double that of the Taliban, Mr. Zaman said, though there was no way to verify the claim. The Taliban appeared to have no problem with the government taking a share, he said.

So far, he said, the Taliban were overseeing the operation with a light hand: a single armed Taliban fighter sat at a checkpoint not far from Mr. Zaman’s hut to ensure that the tax was paid.

The Taliban are today a loose organization of mostly ethnic Pashtuns divided in two wings, one on each side of the border. Their leader in Mohmand goes by the name Abdul Wali, a guerrilla fighter in his 30s who rose to prominence last year when his group occupied a famous shrine in the village of Ghazi Abad in Mohmand.

He is affiliated with the overall leader of the Pakistani Taliban, Baitullah Mehsud, a powerful ally of Al Qaeda who keeps his base in South Waziristan, another part of the tribal areas.

Working with Al Qaeda, the Taliban have steadily tightened their grip over much of the tribal areas in the last several years by cowing or killing hundreds of local tribal chiefs who were the area’s traditional authorities.

In Mohmand, the Taliban have speedily consolidated control in the last year. They have filled a vacuum left by a vacillating government, unable and unwilling to assert its authority, said Munir Orekzei, a member of Parliament from Kurram, southwest of Mohmand, one of the seven districts, or agencies, in the tribal areas.

“In every agency the most powerful man is the Taliban,” Mr. Orekzei said. “Because if someone says, ‘I’m in favor of the government,’ he will be killed.”

At the same time, people in the tribal areas believe some branches of the Pakistani government are encouraging the Taliban in their route to power, he said.

Mr. Orekzei said he recently attended a meeting with Rehman Malik, the Pakistani interior minister, and tribal leaders in Peshawar, capital of the nearby North-West Frontier Province.

“Rehman Malik asked why the people in the tribal areas were not fighting back against the Taliban,” Mr. Orekzei said. “I told him the people believe the government is behind the Taliban. I said, you tell the public what you are doing, and if they believe the government is not behind the Taliban, they will fight.”

The Taliban’s authority had become so firm in the last two months, it was too dangerous for legislators from the tribal areas to return to their constituencies, Mr. Orekzei said.

Only the capital of Mohmand, the small town of Ghalanai, remains unequivocally in government hands. There, the political agent, the representative of the governor of North-West Frontier Province, keeps a house and offices. But his power barely extends beyond the town’s limits, and he is unable to offer government services to ease the region’s poverty, local people say.

Next door to his compound, a public hospital remains underused because doctors, put off by poor salaries and insecurity, refuse to work there. Health conditions are appalling.

The weakness of the government has left people helpless before the Taliban threat, Mr. Orekzei and other local officials said. Most families had given a man to the Taliban cause, often as a measure of protection against the militants.

The territory has become a magnet for other militants from farther afield as well. More and more of them are coming from abroad, American officials say. But Taliban fighters encountered in Mohmand said they had come from all over Pakistan, revealing the Taliban’s reach into the heart of the country.

Some Taliban fighters said that they had come for the summer from cities like Karachi and Rawalpindi, where they run food stalls or work in hotels, and that they would return home at the start of winter when freezing weather envelops the mountains.

The government security force, a paramilitary group called the Frontier Corps, which serves under the command of the Pakistani Army, does little to challenge the Taliban in the tribal areas, despite occasional skirmishes. On the road north of Ghalanai, there were no Frontier Corps patrols, and 25 miles from Ghalanai the Taliban were in firm control.

With the government so weak, the Taliban are accepted as the ruling power in many places in the tribal areas, local officials say. They wield an unflinching hand, to the point of conducting public executions, against the lawlessness that prevails in the region.

In Mohmand, they have imposed extra restrictions on women in the already conservative society, forbidding them to venture into fields and ordering their heads shaved if they flout the edict, according to the handful of legislators who represent the tribal areas in Parliament.

In a place called Chinarai, a two-hour drive from the Afghan border, the Taliban maintain a prison, where the reporter and photographer were held. On a recent day, there were about a dozen people in the compound, all of them manacled and kept in dark small rooms.

In a sign that the internal workings of the Taliban were not entirely smooth, several of the detainees were Taliban, and one of the prisoners was a relative of top Taliban commanders.

Life for the prisoners was spare at best. They were denied cellphones, the most valued possession among the Taliban. Prison food consisted of poorly cooked rice and vegetables. Soap appeared to be used only for body washing, not for cleaning of cooking pots and utensils.

Taliban officials reviewing the prisoners’ cases spent much time debating how they should be punished under the Shariah, or Islamic law, imposed by the Taliban. One of the prisoners was suspected of working with the Afghan Army; another was accused of tearing down a Taliban notice.

One man accused of kidnapping was taken out of the prison and beaten into confessing.

Recently, Mohmand has become a center of kidnapping for ransom, a new activity that appears to be another important source of revenue for the Taliban. But the Ziarat quarry will be far more profitable, many people here say.

Even in its current rough condition, the quarry is such a good deal for the Taliban that one tribesman, known as Bahadar, who works there, predicted, “If this continues for two more years, they will take on America itself.”
429 2008-07-14 Mike LaBauve, one of the nation’s top golf teachers, sees a lot of amateur golfers miss greens with their approach shots, and he is always surprised when they seem unprepared for those results.

“If you’re a 20 handicap, you should be ready to miss more than three-fourths of all greens,” LaBauve said. “But you would be a 10 handicap if you knew what to do next and had repeatedly practiced those short shots near greens after a miss. Amateur golfers should not be surprised by their misses; they should be prepared for them.”

As LaBauve points out, even PGA Tour players miss about six greens in regulation per round. A 20-handicap golfer misses on average about 14 greens in regulation per round, he estimated.

“Understanding and accepting that your iron play will test your short game is the first part of getting better,” said LaBauve, who is the director of instruction at the Westin Kierland Resort and Spa in Scottsdale, Ariz. “Perfect those short-game shots, and you’ll see incredible improvement — from 6 to 10 shots per round, depending on your handicap.”
430 2008-07-14 BANKS ON THE BRINK With the failure of the IndyMac Bank, analysts are trying to figure how many other banks might collapse, but most believe the fallout will be far less than the savings and loan crisis 20 years ago. [C1.]     POLITICAL PRIVILEGE ...
431 2008-07-14 So what if his signature product hasn't sold well and Steven P. Jobs once called its design inelegant? Doug Field, the longtime technology chief at Segway, is joining Apple to become a product designer.     Mr. Field was part of the original desig...
432 2008-07-14 McCRINDLE--Joseph F. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague even as we take comfort in the joy and fullness of his life. Joe had been an active member of the Board of Trustees since 1986. His uncommon generosity was a natural outgrowth o...
433 2008-07-14 In the season finale of ''CSI: NY'' in May, the show's characters gathered around videoconferencing screens to share information about a shooting. ''She wants everybody on a TelePresence call,'' says an investigator, Lindsay Monroe. ''O.K., we hav...
434 2008-07-14 ZIARAT, Pakistan -- The mountain of white marble shines with such brilliance in the sun it looks like snow. For four years, the quarry beneath it lay dormant, its riches captive to tribal squabbles and government ineptitude in this corner of Pakis...
435 2008-07-15 A double exposure image of the Grim Reaper, who haunts the entrance to the Spook-A-Rama ride at Coney Island, and Pat Bertoletti, a contestant in the annual Nathan’s Famous hot dog eating contest....
436 2008-07-15 CBS is pushing back the premiere of a reality show about advertising to give the network more time to advertise....
437 2008-07-15 "CBS got a paw up on its competition with the debut of 'Greatest American Dog' helping the network to a midsummer ratings victory."...
438 2008-07-15 As several gay rights groups criticized John McCain for saying that he opposes gay adoption, the McCain campaign issued a clarification Tuesday saying that he believes the issue should be decided by the states, and that such adoptions should not b...
439 2008-07-15 This just in: "S.E.C. Chairman Christopher Cox said at a Senate Banking Committee hearing that the Securities and Exchange Commission would institute an emergency order requiring any traders to pre-borrow stock before shorting Fannie Mae and Fredd...
440 2008-07-15 Erin Callan, whose rise and fall at Lehman Brothers transfixed Wall Street, has resigned to join Credit Suisse. The move comes a little more than a month after Ms. Callan, 42, was demoted as the chief financial officer of Lehman, which has been ro...
441 2008-07-15 With the financial sector and the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in trouble, short sellers have found themselves a main target of ire. Now, the Securities and Exchange Commission is clamping down on them. In his testimony before the Se...
442 2008-07-15 CNBC interviews Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, about the company's plans to suspend its dividend and further reduce truck production.
443 2008-07-15 Wilbur Ross's latest deal, an $80 million investment in the flailing Indian airline SpiceJet, announced on Tuesday, is hardly earth-shaking, but the idea behind it is typically contrarian. Mr. Ross has decided that high oil prices have hit bubble ...
444 2008-07-15 Think Tank Central | An online reader poll by two Western journals names the "world's top 100 public intellectuals" - and No. 1 is a Turkish Sufi cleric (Fetullah Gulen) barely known in the West. In fact, all in the top 10 have Muslim backgrounds....
445 2008-07-15 "This war distracts us from every threat that we face and so many opportunities we could seize," Barack Obama said, while John McCain countered that the "surge in Iraq that shows us the way to succeed in Afghanistan."...
446 2008-07-15 Senator Obama will tell you we can't win in Afghanistan without losing in Iraq. In fact, he has it exactly backwards. It is precisely the success of the surge in Iraq that shows us the way to succeed in Afghanistan. It is by applying the tried and true principles of counter-insurgency used in the surge -- which Senator Obama opposed -- that we will win in Afghanistan. With the right strategy and the right forces, we can succeed in both Iraq and Afghanistan. I know how to win wars. And if I'm elected President, I will turn around the war in Afghanistan, just as we have turned around the war in Iraq, with a comprehensive strategy for victory.

That strategy will have several components. Our commanders on the ground in Afghanistan say that they need at least three additional brigades. Thanks to the success of the surge, these forces are becoming available, and our commanders in Afghanistan must get them. But sending more forces, by itself, is not enough to prevail. In the 18 months that Senator Obama has been campaigning for the presidency, the number of NATO forces in Afghanistan has already almost doubled -- from 33,000 in January 2007 to about 53,000 today. Yet security has still deteriorated. What we need in Afghanistan is exactly what Gen. Petraeus brought to Iraq: a nationwide civil-military campaign plan that is focused on providing security for the population. Today no such integrated plan exists. When I am commander-in-chief, it will.

There are, of course, many differences between Afghanistan and Iraq, which any plan must account for. But, as in Iraq, the center of gravity is the security of the population. The good news is that our soldiers have begun to apply the lessons of Iraq to Afghanistan -- especially in eastern Afghanistan, where U.S. forces are concentrated. These efforts, however, are too piecemeal; the work of innovative local commanders, rather than a strategy for the entire country. In particular, the U.S. needs to reengage deeper in southern Afghanistan, the Taliban heartland.

One of the reasons there is no comprehensive campaign plan for Afghanistan is because we have violated one of the cardinal rules of any military operation: unity of command. Today there are no less than three different American military combatant commands operating in Afghanistan, as well as NATO, some of whose members have national restrictions on where their troops can go and what they can do. This is no way to run a war. The top commander in Afghanistan needs to be just that: the supreme commander of all coalition forces. As commander-in-chief, I will work with our allies to ensure unity of command.

A successful counterinsurgency requires more than military force. It requires all instruments of our national power, and that military and civilian leaders work together, at all levels, under a joint plan. Too often in Afghanistan this is not happening. And we need to build the same kind of civil-military partnership that Gen. Petraeus and Amb. Crocker have forged in Iraq, supported by the best talent in the U.S. government and the resources necessary to prevail. Unity of command is also a principle I will bring to Washington. Too often, even as American soldiers and diplomats cooperate in the field, their superiors back home have been squabbling. Last year, the Bush administration appointed a war czar, responsible for both Iraq and Afghanistan. This was a step in the right direction. But Afghanistan is sufficiently important that a separate Afghanistan Czar is needed. I will appoint a highly-respected national security lea der, based in the White House and reporting directly to the President, whose sole mission will be to ensure we bring the war in Afghanistan to a successful end.

Everyone knows the United States increased the number of its soldiers in Iraq last year. What's less well known is that the Iraqis surged with us, adding over 100,000 security forces to their ranks. It's time for the Afghans to do the same. The Afghan army is already a great success story: a multiethnic, battle-tested fighting force. The problem is, it's too small, with a projected strength of only 80,000 troops. For years, the Afghans have been telling us they need a bigger army, and they are right. We need to at least double the size of the Afghan army to 160,000 troops. The costs of this increase, however, should not be borne by American taxpayers alone. Insecurity in Afghanistan is the world's problem, and the world should share the costs. We must work with our allies to establish an international trust fund to provide long-term financing for the Afghan army.

We also need to increase our non-military assistance to the Afghan government, with a multi-front plan for strengthening its institutions, the rule of law, and the economy in order to provide a sustainable alternative to the drug trade. Getting control of narcotics trafficking is central to our efforts in Afghanistan. Alternative crops must be able to get to market and traffickers must be arrested and prosecuted by enhanced Special Courts. We should agree on specific governance and development benchmarks with the Afghan government, then work with them closely to ensure they are met.

Just as we have worked over the past 18 months to stabilize Iraq by bringing together its neighbors, this kind of diplomacy is just as important for Afghanistan. The violence there has many causes, but chief among them is the fact that Afghanistan is treated by some regional powers a chessboard on which to pursue their own ambitions. I will appoint a special presidential envoy to address disputes between Afghanistan and its neighbors. Our goal must be to turn Afghanistan from a theater for regional rivalries into a commons for regional cooperation.

A special focus of our regional strategy must be Pakistan, where terrorists today enjoy sanctuary. This must end. We must strengthen local tribes in the border areas who are willing to fight the foreign terrorists there -- the strategy used successfully in Anbar and elsewhere in Iraq. We must convince Pakistanis that this is their war as much as it is ours. And we must empower the new civilian government of Pakistan to defeat radicalism with greater support for development, health, and education. Senator Obama has spoken in public about taking unilateral military action in Pakistan. In trying to sound tough, he has made it harder for the people whose support we most need to provide it. I will not bluster, and I will not make idle threats. But understand this: when I am commander -in-chief, there will be nowhere the terrorists can run, and nowhere they can hide.

In wartime, judgment and experience matter. In a time of war, the commander-in-chief doesn't get a learning curve. If I have that privilege, I will bring to the job many years of military and political experience; experience that gave me the judgment necessary to make the right call in Iraq a year and half ago. I supported the surge because I believed it was our only realistic chance to reverse the disaster our previous strategy had caused, and the right thing to do for our country. And although events have proven me right, my position wasn't popular at the time, and I risked my own political ambitions when I took it. When I tell you, I will put our country's interests -- your interests -- before party; before any special interest; before my own interests, every hour of every day I'm in office, you can believe me. Because for my entire adult life, in war and peace, nothing has ever been more important to me than the security and well-being of the country I love. Thank you.
447 2008-07-15 Errol Morris tries to explore why the image was manipulated....
448 2008-07-15 "A 'Family Guy' spinoff show featuring the character of Cleveland Brown is mixing up its voice cast, ethnically speaking."...
449 2008-07-15 You've probably heard the markets have been under the weather, which means you're also likely to keep a closer eye on them. Enter our expanded and redesigned Markets section....
450 2008-07-15 OK, this doesn't matter for anything - but Alex Tabarrok mentions the "peso problem", and links to an article that gives credit for the term to Milton Friedman. That's a case of giving credit where it isn't due.The term "peso problem" was invented...
451 2008-07-15 The Federal Reserve adopted sweeping rules on Monday aimed at barring abusive or deceptive mortgage lending practices of the kind that analysts say have led to widespread delinquencies and foreclosures, a collapse of the housing market and an econ...
452 2008-07-15 Even as the Bush administration moved to rescue the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies, confidence in the banking sector spiraled downward Monday. Lines snaked around branches of IndyMac Bancorp, the large lender that was seized by fe...
453 2008-07-15 A former star trader at Bear Stearns has formed a new hedge fund called Covepoint Capital with nearly $1 billion in assets, Reuters reported. Reuters said that Melissa Ko, who ran Bear's Emerging Markets Macro Fund, has raised assets of about $925...
454 2008-07-15 First consider the title — “The Cleaner” — in all its banner can-do-ism. What does it remind you of? Phonically “The Cleaner,” which begins on Tuesday on A&E, is like “The Closer,” sure, but more broadly it borrows from many masters of basic cable.

The show stars Benjamin Bratt as a self-employed savior compensating for a prior life, in which, as Emmylou Harris once sang, “addiction stayed on tight like a glove.” “The Cleaner” is a little bit “Saving Grace” and a little bit “Intervention,” the documentary series on A&E, which now, in retrospect, seems to have been the network’s first effort at recasting itself as the Recovery Channel.

Mr. Bratt, who brought such leadenness to his role in “The Andromeda Strain” earlier this summer, is here all car-screeching urgency. As William Banks, he is always racing somewhere, rescuing someone. While in the thrall of his weakness, Banks missed the birth of one of his children. That prompted him into a contract with the heavens, one in which he committed to aiding fellow addicts in exchange for another go at stability.

The force isn’t God, exactly, and Banks prides himself on never praying. But after his turning point he assembled a team of similarly minded public servants to help him deceive and abduct and create elaborate ruses, all in the name of getting the needy into treatment. Typically, Banks receives a call from a distraught relative seeking to hire him, and his band of Mighty Morphin’ Hazelden Rangers is immediately brought in. Pretty quickly, addicts are vomiting, and chests are pumped, and you think you’re watching “Grey’s Anatomy” without the blondes and the panties.

The writing doesn’t dissuade Mr. Bratt from his inclination toward overstatement. He is forced to sound like a report from the Centers for Disease Control while administering CPR. “I pulled you out of your miserable, dead-end lives,” he scolds his minions in the middle of attempted life-saving. “We’re not listed, we don’t advertise, people find us because they need us. We have a 75 percent relapse rate, a 27 percent rate of mortality.”
455 2008-07-15 At the core of Microsoft’s new initiative is a new interface for the Xbox 360 that incorporates humanlike avatars representing each player. Users will be able to customize their avatars and socialize with other Xbox users, even outside of any particular game. Nintendo has been successful using a similar approach with its Wii, where each person creates a more cartoony figure called a Mii. Sony is also working on such a system with a new service for its PlayStation 3 called Home.

In Microsoft’s system, Xbox users will be able to share photos with one another across the Xbox Live network and also watch movies together in real time, even if the consumers are thousands of miles apart.

In addition to the new avatar system, Microsoft announced a partnership with Netflix, so Netflix subscribers can watch any of more than 10,000 movies and television programs over their Xbox 360. Microsoft already offers some films and TV shows for download and on Monday the company announced that its Xbox Live service had generated more than $1 billion in revenue since the Xbox 360’s debut in 2005.

Driving home the company’s new push for mainstream consumers, the company also unveiled new family-oriented games including a new entry in its Viva Pinata franchise and a madcap B-movie simulator called “You’re in the Movies.”

But a video game business cannot survive on family-friendly fare alone. To appeal to more traditionally discerning gamers, Microsoft offered a well-received look at the post-apocalyptic role-playing Fallout 3 and Gears of War 2, sequel to one of the best games of 2006.

Perhaps of most interest to serious gamers, Square Enix of Japan showed a lusciously beautiful trailer at the Microsoft briefing from its coming game Final Fantasy XIII, which is scheduled to be released next year. Previous Final Fantasy games have been available only on Sony consoles, but, in a major coup for Microsoft, Square Enix announced that FF13 would also be released for the Xbox 360.

Later in the day, Electronic Arts, the big United States game publisher, held its own media presentation to show off its lineup for the holiday season and next year. Predictably, Spore, the evolutionary biology simulator from Will Wright, creator of SimCity and The Sims, looked almost frighteningly addictive. Spore is scheduled to be released in September, and Mr. Wright said that players had already created more than 1.7 million fictional species using the game’s demonstration version.

E.A. has long been a leader in appealing to casual gamers. To reinforce that success, the company showed off a new game called SimAnimals, which appears poised to do well among girls and children. The company also moved to reinforce its credibility with core gamers which looks at Dragon Age Origins, from the BioWare studio, and Left 4 Dead, a survival horror game from the Valve studio. Both BioWare and Valve are among the most respected game developers in the world.

In a surprise move, E.A. announced a publishing partnership with id Software, the inventors of the first-person shooter genre and the famous developers of the seminal Doom and Quake franchises. John Carmack, an id lead programmer, showed a brief snippet from id’s coming game Rage.

But the surprise hit of the E.A. news conference was a new science-fiction horror game called Dead Space, which is scheduled to be released for PCs, the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 in October. Not for children and not for the squeamish, Dead Space takes place on a space station where something has gone horribly, terribly wrong (the combat revolves around what was described at the presentation as strategic dismemberment). The quality of the animation and the evocative tension and fear of its presentation appeared to be of a very high quality, as long as you don’t mind flying body parts.

Nintendo and Sony are scheduled to hold their major briefings on Tuesday.
456 2008-07-15 SOUTHPORT, England — Because Tiger Woods is absent from one of golf’s four majors for the first time since the 1996 P.G.A. Championship, speculation abounds about the impact his absence will have on the 137th British Open that starts Thursday at Royal Birkdale Golf Club.

The only sure things at this point: there will be an impact; just about everyone on the grounds at Birkdale and in the legal betting shops in Britain has an opinion on what it might be.

The golfer who might know best is among Woods’s closest friends, Mark O’Meara. O’Meara, who in 1998 won the last Open played at Birkdale, said Woods “will be sorely missed.”

With Woods on the mend from knee surgery, someone else has to be favored, and the betting public has, according to Ladbrokes.com, installed Sergio García of Spain as the 11-1 favorite. The groundswell for García, the runner-up at last year’s Open at Carnoustie but who has yet to win a major, is believed to be tied to popular support for the continuation of a Spanish sports summer. It began with Spain’s victory in the European Cup soccer finals and continued last week with Rafael Nadal’s Wimbledon win.

Who do bettors like as the American player most likely to win? Phil Mickelson, the No. 2 player in the world, is the top choice so far. Although Mickelson’s record in the British Open is far from stellar — one top 10 in 15 Opens, three missed cuts and finishes of 73rd and 79th at Birkdale — he is fancied by wagerers ahead of Jim Furyk. Furyk has four top 10s in 12 appearances.

Ernie Els, who is the second choice of bettors, said the winner would have to deal with an unusual question: “The best player of this generation is not there,” Els said, “and whoever is going to win next week is going to have to answer questions of, ‘Do you think you would have beaten Tiger if he was here?’ It’s one of those things.”
457 2008-07-15 Semiconductor equipment sales are likely to fall 20 percent this year, according to a midyear forecast by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International, an industry group, that was released on Monday.

The forecast is much more pessimistic than the group’s projected 1.4 percent decline in January.

The research firm Gartner said last week that it expected semiconductor capital spending to drop 22 percent this year, more than it had previously anticipated, because of continued economic uncertainty and oversupply in certain memory segments.

SEMI, the semiconductor group, said equipment sales rose 6 percent last year despite weakness in the second half of the year and would rebound in 2009 and 2010. But spending this year is being affected by lower spending in the memory market, where overcapacity has sent prices plunging.

The latest forecast predicts 13 percent growth in 2009 and 6 percent growth in 2010, when chip makers are expected to move toward plants that produce wafers that are 12 inches, or 300 millimeters, wide. The change would allow them to increase output at lower manufacturing costs.

The survey forecast a 1 percent increase this year in China, the only market where spending is likely to rise. The market for new equipment in that country is expected to pass markets in Europe this year at $2.95 billion.

The Japanese market is projected to be the largest this year, at $7.88 billion, because of a 37 percent spending cut in Taiwan, which was No. 1 in 2007. Taiwan and South Korea are likely to be the second- and third-largest markets, respectively. North America is expected to hold fourth place at $5.67 billion, down 13 percent from last year.
458 2008-07-15 “Dealing with greenhouse gases, while essential, is very costly,” Mr. Rowe said. “If you have an adequate way of accounting for offsets and displacements, we think we can offset our carbon footprint at a reasonable price.”

Some components of the plan, like trying to bolster the output of its nuclear plants, are moves that Exelon would have taken anyway, Mr. Rowe acknowledged. One major step is made financially feasible by changes in the fuel markets: the price of natural gas is now so high that efficient generating stations can be built profitably to replace older plants.

The plan’s biggest components are cutting customers’ use of energy by improving efficiency and increasing the output of existing reactors. Each of those moves would contribute 23 percent to the carbon reductions.

By the company’s calculation, some of those steps save money on a net basis. Some of the improvements would cut costs up to $70 a ton of carbon dioxide saved after expenses. Some of the nuclear changes would earn $60 a ton net of expenses.

Operators of most of the nation’s 103 commercial nuclear reactors have raised output, usually by making small changes to pumps and valves and performing engineering analyses to show that they can safely produce more heat — akin to raising a highway speed limit.

Exelon is counting on this source for about 16 percent of the savings. But it holds open the possibility that it could exceed its goal, and more than half the planned greenhouse gas reductions use this method.

But the plan is remarkable for what it does not emphasize. Despite a national focus on solar and wind power, discussions in Congress about renewed tax credits for investments in windmills and solar systems and debate over a federal requirement for a minimum level of “renewable” energy, Exelon calls for relatively little.

New “renewable” energy, including plants that run on landfill gas or wood or crop waste that can be burned, makes up just 7 percent of the carbon savings. In the region that the company serves in Pennsylvania, where state law requires electricity distributors to buy “renewable energy credits,” it will buy the equivalent of another 6.5 percent.

Sequestering the carbon dioxide from coal-burning power plants is not a technology that Exelon thinks will be available by 2020.

In contrast, the plan calls for improving the efficiency of its fossil-powered plants. It also calls for cutting the release of sulfur hexafluoride, a gas that is used to insulate circuit breakers but which is 24,000 times more potent for global warming than carbon dioxide, molecule for molecule.

“This is a mix of things that any sensible person would do, and of things that you only can economically do if the cost of climate are incorporated into the marketplace,” said Mr. Rowe, referring to carbon taxes or limits that require emissions trading.

Exelon’s carbon footprint is relatively small, because it has many nuclear reactors, he said.
459 2008-07-15 Two Roman Catholic priests have disappeared after being arrested by police officers, who were trying to prevent them from making a pilgrimage to a shrine near Shanghai, according to the Cardinal Kung Foundation, a rights group based in Connecticut that is critical of the Chinese government’s policies on religion. The priests, the Rev. Zhang Jianlin and the Rev. Zhang Li, are members of an underground church and were held by authorities in Xuanhua in Hebei Province, the foundation said. A police officer reached by telephone in Xuanhua said he had no knowledge of the priests. The foundation said the priests had wanted to join thousands of Catholics in making a pilgrimage in May to a shrine in Sheshan.
460 2008-07-15 The subways wouldn’t be so dirty, some will say, if only New York City Transit would hire more sweepers. That is probably true. But there is such a thing as budget constraints.

Things wouldn’t be so bad, others will say, if there were more trash cans on subway platforms. They have a point, too.

But the fact is that even when cans are right nearby, far too many subway passengers suffer a weird form of paralysis, special to New York. It renders them incapable of walking a few feet to the receptacle or of holding on to a coffee cup until they reach their destination.

As an example — and it is hardly the most severe that one could find, just convenient — the ride to work Monday began with the following items strewn across the platform near the main entrance to our regular subway station, the 86th Street stop on the No. 1 line:

Four MetroCards, three paper napkins, a copy of AM New York scattered in five parts, one soda can, one packet of an artificial sweetener, one candy wrapper, two balled-up pieces of paper and a cough-drop box. Much of this debris lay mere feet from a trash can.

Other stations surely have it worse. But the tracks at 86th Street were a sorry sight typical throughout the system. They were the resting place for 49 bottles and cans (including a beer can) and 78 MetroCards. If anything, this may have been an undercount. And it did not include heaven knows how many candy wrappers, fragments of newspapers, coffee cups, empty potato-chip bags and scraps of food providing a feast for the occasional rat scurrying along the rails.

Obviously, no one had swept there in a long while. That is management’s bad. But the odds are high that the cans, bottles and cards did not march onto the tracks by themselves. That is the riders’ bad.

All those MetroCards underscored their role in the litter problem, an unfortunate side effect of an otherwise good thing.

Little attention has been paid to the fact that this month is the 10th anniversary of MetroCards that allow an unlimited number of rides. For New Yorkers, the innovation was revolutionary. Appropriately, it went into effect on Independence Day, 1998. A year earlier, free MetroCard transfers between subways and buses came into being. In short order, the card turned the iconic subway token into a memory.

NOW, 93 percent of subway and bus fares are paid with MetroCards, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. More than half involve unlimited-ride cards. Between those cards and the discounts offered on pay-per-ride cards, the average fare paid in April, the last month for which the authority had figures, was $1.33. That is well below the present base fare of $2. It is even below the $1.38 average fare paid back in April 1996. The MetroCard is clearly a bargain.

But all too many people casually toss used cards onto subway platforms and tracks. In this regard, subway managers have not been of much help.

They have placed special boxes in stations for the discarded slivers of plastic. But the boxes are often easily overlooked. Other times, they are stuffed to overflowing, with cards spilling every which way. Or their bottoms are flimsy, allowing cards to cascade to the floor. Coming up with a dependable container seems to have eluded the people in charge.

Maybe one day that will change; optimism is our default position. And maybe one day subway managers will persuade New Yorkers to mend their slovenly ways. But a safer bet is that the gossip columns will ask “Brangelina who?” long before something like that ever happens.
461 2008-07-15 Barry Shott, a deputy commissioner of the I.R.S., says the program works because it “puts in place a means for the foreign investor to invest and have favorable withholding, and a hurdle to the U.S. investor who has the aim of going offshore and avoiding the prying eyes of the I.R.S.” The agency has in recent years halted the participation in the program by 100 foreign banks that had violated it, Mr. Shott said.

Still, he said the agency would soon require foreign banks in the program to determine the identities of the actual American clients using trusts, offshore corporations and shell entities.

In particular, he said, foreign banks would be required to determine whether their clients are United States investors hiding behind a foreign shell company to improperly claim lower tax rates from tax treaties with foreign countries — or not pay taxes at all. If they are, then the bank must let the I.R.S. know about that client and withhold taxes on dividends in the account at rates of up to 30 percent, Mr. Shott said. He declined to say whether the new rule would be retroactive or apply to new clients.

Douglas H. Shulman, the I.R.S. commissioner, said the goal of the coming changes “is to get a clear line of sight into the owners of the bank account, and to know where there’s fraud.”

These new rules, which are aimed at United States, not foreign, clients of the banks, would help to peel back some of the layers of banking secrecy that permeate tax havens from Switzerland to the Caribbean, where vast sums of money are hidden from the I.R.S.

Despite its status as a bulwark against tax evasion, the program has lax audit requirements and minimal oversight, its critics say.

Even senior tax lawyers who acknowledge benefits in the program see room for improvement.

“I think the Q.I. program has been quite successful,” said Edward Tanenbaum, chairman of the international tax practice group at Alston & Bird in New York. “But is this a foolproof kind of thing? No.”

Under the current rules, foreign banks in the program typically submit to an external audit, usually done by a major accounting firm, every three years — but the auditors are not required to notify the client or the I.R.S. of any indications of misuse or fraud. Under murky rules, some banks even get audit “waivers.”

But Mr. Shott, the I.R.S. official, said the Treasury Department would soon require auditors to root out fraud and report it to the I.R.S.

In another shift, the I.R.S. says it will soon allow foreign banks in the program to use third-party databases, like those from credit reporting firms, to determine who their clients really are and what taxes they should pay.

The I.R.S. has never disclosed how much the program realizes in taxes. But there are indications that the program brings in only a fraction of what it should, because the banks have found ways around its requirements.

In 2003 alone, banks in the program sent more than $35 billion abroad to individual investors, partnerships, trusts and the like, but withheld taxes of only 5 percent on that amount, according to a study by the Government Accountability Office last December. That was a fraction of the 28 percent to 30 percent standard rates.

The taxes withheld were lower because the entities receiving the income claimed exemptions under foreign tax treaties. If United States investors are behind those entities — and the government thinks they are in many cases — then they are not entitled to the exemptions.
462 2008-07-15 His conversations with people are often snapshots of daily toil: rising bills to pay, crime to dodge, landlords to battle, noise to endure. And increasingly, the stories hint at something broader: the pressures and opportunities created by the eastward-creeping gentrification in Brooklyn, felt in apartments and brownstones and shops and on corners. Mr. Jeffries, a Brooklyn native, nodded as he listened to these stories, trying, it seemed, to make sense of all the flux.

As the debate over congestion pricing took place last summer, the sessions were a chance for Mr. Jeffries to get away from the sometimes shrill appeals of advocacy groups, and to hear the informal thoughts of his constituents, he said.

Last week, in the muggy evening heat, he wore dark suits made of light wool and dabbed his brow with a napkin. He stood as he spoke to most of the visitors, a hand in one pocket, the other hand gesturing in a circle to make a point. (“I know what you mean,” he would say, or “I’ve been hearing that a lot.”) When he heard something unusual, Mr. Jeffries shot a glance at his assistant, Nicholas Moore, who took notes. When someone looked like they needed a seat, Mr. Jeffries gestured to a small card table with two fold-up chairs.

On July 8, Kim Riley needed to sit. Her landlord, she said, was trying to buy her out of her apartment, and the matter was now in housing court. “You know the neighborhood is changing,” she told Mr. Jeffries, as the traffic hummed behind them on Eastern Parkway, across the street from the Brooklyn Museum.

At these subway stops, Mr. Jeffries was a local. He grew up on Sterling Place in Crown Heights, on a block full of working-class families. The danger — the crime and tragedy that rode in with the crack epidemic — “was never far away,” he said.

Ms. Riley and others stuck it out during those rougher days, Mr. Jeffries said, adding that, now that the neighborhood was turning around, they deserved to be able to stay.

The evening sessions felt something like a visit to a doctor’s office. Mr. Jeffries offered opinions (a state agency had been “too passive” during the Pataki administration), prescriptions (an offer to call a local official for help), and promises of follow-up sessions.

At times, Mr. Jeffries sounded like he was on the stump, especially when he talked about developers or landlords. “The No. 1 problem,” he would say, “is displacement and gentrification. People are getting pushed out.”

A few people came because they knew Mr. Jeffries would be there (he had sent out fliers) and others just ran into him going or coming from the subway. Outside the Eastern Parkway stop, Nijah Barley, 17, on his way to the park, recognized Mr. Jeffries, who had spoken at his high school. “He’s a successful man,” Nijah said. “I asked him if he always knew what he wanted to do. He told me to find my niches.”

Larniece Matthews needed help finding money, obtaining food stamps, getting by. “She’s a single mother, she works, and she’s struggling,” Mr. Jeffries said, before turning to Mr. Moore. “We need to find out how much she makes before we bring her in,” the assemblyman said.

One woman was concerned about cellphone towers. Another wanted to know Mr. Jeffries’ position on gay marriage. (He is in favor of it.) Several people expressed concerns that teenagers had nothing to do this summer and would get into trouble. Tenzin Lhundup, 24, bluntly asked Mr. Jeffries what issues he was fighting for. Among the concerns Mr. Jeffries mentioned was the need to help prisoners re-entering society find employment and educational opportunities.

Half a dozen people complained to him about parking.

On some of the streets near where Mr. Jeffries stood, alternate-side rules are in effect six days a week. “I’m still weighing the pros and cons of residential parking,” Mr. Jeffries told Seymour Gayle, for whom parking was just one concern, along with day care costs and the sometimes shabby state of nearby Dr. Ronald E. McNair Park. (Mr. Jeffries promised to speak with the parks department commissioner.)

On Wednesday night, Mr. Jeffries and his team set up their table outside the Franklin Avenue subway stop, in Crown Heights. The skies cleared after a brief drizzle, and Clara Deriggs, who is 79 and lives alone, stopped by with her electric bill. A few months ago, for no reason she could fathom, her bill had doubled, she told Mr. Jeffries.

“We’ve worked with Con Ed before,” the assemblyman said, and then he asked Ms. Deriggs if she wanted to sit down.
463 2008-07-15 “People should not assume that just because the stock price has been going down, that we’re going to close their bank,” Ms. Bair said. “In addition to our credit problems, I don’t want to have to start worrying about bank runs.”

Wall Street staged its own sort of bank run. Investors fled banking stocks en masse. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Bank Index fell nearly 10 percent. Washington Mutual, the nation’s largest savings and loan, lost more than a third of its value, prompting the lender to issue a statement that it was “well capitalized.” National City Corporation of Cleveland, which is the largest bank in Ohio, fell almost 15 percent. That bank also took the unusual step of issuing a statement saying that it was sound. The stock prices of large lenders in Tennessee, Alabama and Florida also swooned.

Nervous investors sent all three major stock indexes down on Monday. The Dow Jones industrials closed down 0.41 percent, at 11,055.19. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 0.9 percent, to close at 1,228.30, and Nasdaq fell 1.17 percent, to 2,212.87.

The worries about the financial industry that gripped Wall Street when Bear Stearns imploded in March spilled over to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac last week. They are now buffeting small and midsize banks, many of which are heavily exposed to weakening local property markets and loans to home builders. Some investors fret small institutions will not receive the kind of federal support that rescued Bear Stearns and the two mortgage giants.

“The market wonders: which institution is too small to bail out?” said William H. Gross, the chief investment officer of Pimco, the large money management company. Traders “seem to have picked on the regional banks as potential candidates to be the ones too small to bail out.”

Several bank analysts issued dire warnings about the banking industry, particularly smaller, regional lenders. Goldman Sachs said regional banks may be forced to cut their dividends to safeguard their finances, driving down shares of banks like Zions Bancorporation of Utah and the First Horizon National Corporation of Tennessee.

Rumors swirled that customers at National City were pulling money from the bank. There were no indications of mass withdrawals at the Ohio bank or any others aside from IndyMac, the lender based in Pasadena, Calif., which was seized by regulators last week.

“Look, we are not experiencing any unusual depositor or creditor activity today,” said Kristen Baird Adams, a spokeswoman for National City. “There is widespread speculation and rumors in the markets today.”

The rumors continued to rip through the markets despite a warning from the Securities and Exchange Commission on Sunday that it would crack down on traders who spread false rumors. More bad news is likely this week from large banks like Citigroup, which are expected to report bleak quarterly earnings. On Monday, M&T Bank kicked off the string of earnings releases, saying its profits dropped 25 percent from a year ago. The bank’s stock price fell 15.6 percent on Monday.

Regulators and investors are bracing for a small number of banks to fail over the next 12 to 18 months. Analysts predict that 50 to 150 banks might stumble. In the first quarter this year, the F.D.I.C. listed 90 banks as troubled, which is far lower than the levels during the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s. Still, Ms. Bair said that number would increase. IndyMac, for example, was not on that first quarter list at the F.D.I.C. but was still seized by regulators.

“We’ve been saying for a long time that the number of troubled banks will go up, the number of failed banks will go up,” Ms. Bair said. “It’s going to be well into the next year at least.”

Ms. Bair said her agency was prepared to handle the problem banks, after an extensive staffing increase. The F.D.I.C. has about $53 billion to pay back consumers for deposits that are lost at failed banks and is already working on plans to raise more money to cover the depositor balances at IndyMac. The agency will raise the money from banks, she said, with riskier banks paying more. She emphasized that the number of failed banks still appears to be significantly less than those closed in the 1980s. Some banks may avoid failing because they are purchased just in time.

Nevertheless, the financial markets are reacting to even small rumors, so every bank failure presents the potential for panic, analysts said.

“It’s about to start getting real bad,” said Richard Christopher Whalen, managing director at Institutional Risk Analytics, a research firm based in Torrance, Calif. The government, he said, should just move on with the process and “close not just one but a half-dozen institutions at the same time.”

The government’s plan for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac initially seemed to calm nervous markets on Monday morning. The Dow Jones industrial average opened more than 100 points higher. The announcement should help regional banks that hold Fannie or Freddie bonds as well as Wall Street firms that do a significant amount of business for the government-sponsored entities.

Some investors said the government’s plan simply reaffirmed negative fears about the mortgage market.

“One could argue that government measures validated concerns about how bad things really are,” said David Bullock, managing director of Advent Capital Management, an investment fund in New York. “We are closer to the Depression scenario than not.”

Customers at two National City branches in the Cleveland area did not seem worried, despite the near panic in the stock market. They said they had heard about the bank’s drop in stock value from local radio and television news, but were not concerned enough to withdraw money from their accounts.

“Why, there’s no run on the bank, is there?” said Bernie Bragg, 60, who lives in Fairview Park, a Cleveland suburb. “It’s no big deal to me. The government said it’s going to bail out Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. This thing with National City is small potatoes compared to that.”

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 27/32 on Monday, to 100 5/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.86 percent, from 3.96 percent.

Following are the results of Monday’s Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
464 2008-07-15 Zenon Dance Company of Minneapolis is celebrating 25 years of activity. During those years it has toured from Russia to Micronesia, from California to Maine; and it has worked with more than 60 choreographers, several of whom (Bill T. Jones, Tere O’Connor, Doug Varone) are very well-known in modern dance. Its visit to Dance Theater Workshop over the weekend, as part of the SummerDANZ season, was by no means its first to New York.

Even so, I was not the only person attending its closing matinee on Sunday who had no prior knowledge of the company. I learned most of what I know about them from the press information, which included heartfelt testimonials showing how much the company is valued in Minnesota.

What did I learn from watching it onstage? There are obvious physical differences among each of its five female and three male dancers; there are obvious differences of mood and method among the four New York premieres it presented, which had been choreographed by four different choreographers between 1991 and 2007. The more I looked, however, the less interesting any of those differences became.

In Bebe Miller’s “Sanctuary” (1991) five women, dressed in white undershirts and shorts, proceed through a series of briskly counted phrases and rituals, sometimes briefly recreating the happy organized-chaos look of 1970s Twyla Tharp dances and ending with all five using their heads to scoop arcs of water out of five large wooden pots.

Throughout Wynn Fricke’s “Figure Ground” (2004), a stream of dustlike powder falls into a wide bowl on one side, piercingly lighted by Jeff Bartlett, while, to a high-energy score from the Kodo drummers of Japan, a man and two women slowly advance across the stage — mainly while keeping their legs and torsos on or close to the floor — through various urgent and ritualistic shapes and patterns. At the climax all three reach the dust stream, bathe various parts of their anatomies in it and spray it across the stage.

The world of Colleen Thomas’s “Catching Her Tears (44° N, 93° W)” (2007) is dark: black dancewear, black backdrop and wings, lighting only reaching selected activities. Its range of activities includes three women carrying a man horizontally in their arms and doing a little dance before dropping him onto the stage; a woman riding the back of a man on all fours; a silent howl or two; dancers carrying small light bulbs in their mouths that end up in an X formation on one woman’s chest. Meanwhile Loren Dempster plays Chris Lancaster’s score on amplified cello.
465 2008-07-15 Given the increasingly global supply chains used to produce both Boeing and Airbus planes, neither tanker proposal can be considered a purely American or European concern. Both have suppliers from around the world.

Still, the decision has widened the gulf between the European and American rivals. In Europe, officials say privately that reopening the tanker deal was a politically motivated decision in an election year. Suppliers in Europe and the United States fear a spiral of retaliation and even greater delays in future deals.

EADS and Airbus executives, in a series of briefings and interviews over the weekend, maintained that their tanker proposal, based on the Airbus A330 jet, was the best that technology could provide. They argued that their tanker had already been ordered by Australia and Saudi Arabia while Boeing had only a “paper plane.”

“We’re ready, it’s already built, it’s done flight tests, it is sitting on the tarmac,” said John Young, the head of Airbus’s tanker program.

Jim Albaugh, head of defense at Boeing, responded on Monday that Boeing’s proposal had “three times the strength and one-fifth of the weaknesses” of the Airbus plane. Boeing built its proposal on the basis of its 767 airliner, a smaller and older aircraft than the one that Airbus proposed.

Signaling how hard it intends to fight, Boeing said Monday that it had placed a different executive, David Bowman, in charge of the tanker project, and did not rule out substituting a bigger plane for its initial proposal.

But Boeing conceded Monday that submitting another project based on either its 777 or its planned 787 Dreamliner would be tough, given that the Pentagon hopes to reach a decision by the end of this year.

Whatever the outcome, there will be winners and losers on both sides of the Atlantic. Alenia Aeronautica, a unit of Finmeccanica of Italy, was already a supplier to Boeing’s 767 commercial aircraft and has $900 million riding on the tanker deal, spread over a number of years.

Honeywell, the large avionics manufacturer, is a supplier for both the Boeing and Airbus tanker proposals, with involvement worth approximately similar amounts.

Paolo Carmassi, the head of aerospace for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Honeywell, said he was worried less by the danger of any trans-Atlantic trade war than by the implications for future procurement decisions in the United States.

“This is a very significant precedent, which I believe will generate a follow-through for any major government award,” he said. “All parties will feel entitled to object, and that will end up slowing down the whole process for this and following deals.”

The decision gives Boeing another chance at a contract it has lost once before. A Boeing victory in 2002 resulted in the conviction on corruption charges of an official involved in the award, paving the way for the EADS-Northrop consortium to win the bid.

Mr. Young, the EADS executive heading the tanker program, said in an interview Monday that the company was not disturbed by the Pentagon’s questions, which focus on seven points. “Clearly, everybody would have liked to have had an award and no problems,” he said. “Boeing is doing what they have a legal right to do.”

But, he said, arguments that an American company should receive preference did not reflect the reality of the global market. “Just like international companies are American companies, American companies are international companies,” he said.

Boeing’s case was bolstered by Mr. Aldrin, the astronaut, whose son works at the company’s rocket propulsion operations in Denver. “I couldn’t approach this without being biased,” he said. “It’s going to be an interesting discussion.”
466 2008-07-15 Leave it to the sheik to steal the show.

Scott Carson, the president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, was wrapping up the opening news conference at the Farnborough International Air Show outside London on Monday when he invited some special guests to join him on stage. In walked Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed Al-Maktoum, accompanied by Boeing’s chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr.

The sheik was there to announce a $3.78 billion order for 54 Boeing 737-800 series jets, which he will use to start a low-fare airline, FlyDubai. Under the deal, FlyDubai, which plans to start flying in 2009, will purchase 50 new planes and lease four others. They will take to the skies from the new $33 billion airport in Jebel Ali, which is set to open next year and become the world’s biggest air field.

Sheik Ahmed is chairman of the Emirates Group, which includes Emirates, the international airline of the United Arab Emirates. The deal caused some buzzing among aviation journalists at the show, since Boeing had just finished telling reporters that it had a back log of 3,600 planes running into the next decade.

How come the sheik was able to jump the queue, as they say in these parts?

“A lot depends on who the customer is,” said Charlie Miller, a Boeing spokesman. “Clearly, if you are Emirates, you deal with them differently,” he said.

The new airline’s chief executive, Gaith al-Gaith, said the airline considered Boeing and Airbus jets (Emirates was the inaugural customer for Airbus’s big A380, which put on an aerobatic demonstration at the show on Monday). It also considered picking up some of the 737 jets that other airlines have grounded.

“We were looking at used and new,” Mr. al-Gaith said, “but we wanted to start on the right footing with the most efficient aircraft.”
467 2008-07-15 Comparing blood pressure in the ankle and the arm could give doctors a quick way to know which patients are at higher risk of cardiovascular disease, researchers say.

The measure, known as the ankle brachial index, could help address a serious public-health challenge — determining who is at risk of heart attack and stroke.

The problems often occur in patients with no known history of cardiovascular problems. And current approaches to figure out who is at risk, which look at things like smoking, blood pressure and cholesterol, give mixed results.

For the report, which appears in the July 9 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers reviewed 16 studies that looked at the medical histories of more than 24,000 men and more than 23,000 women.

To establish an ankle brachial index, doctors look at the ratio between the systolic pressure at the ankle and at the arm. A lower index number, the study found, was a reliable indicator of cardiovascular risk.

The study suggested combining the index with other scales now used, like the Framingham risk score, to get a more accurate measure. When they did that for the study, the researchers found, about one man in five fell into a lower risk category, while a third of the women ended up in a higher one. This would suggest that some men may have been getting treatment they did not need, while some women were not getting treatment they should have.
468 2008-07-15 Re: “The Keepers of the Moon” (July 8): While it is wonderful knowing that samples brought back from the Moon are giving us new insights into everything from the age of the universe to the mass extinction of the dinosaurs, it is also sad to hear NASA scientists projecting permanent scientific outposts on the Moon by 2020; sad because they have been projecting such outposts for the last 40 years.

Humankind will never become a spacefaring civilization until we commit to building a permanent commercial and scientific infrastructure in space. Such commitment requires vision, courage and consistent investment from both government and private sectors. Question is, how do we make that happen?

“Keepers of the Moon” implies that the only debate about the future of our space science program is whether to send astronauts to the Moon or to Mars. There is a much more basic question to be considered first: whether manned space flight is worth the cost and the risk.

The decision to resume manned exploration beyond low Earth orbit was not made as the result of an objective evaluation as to how we can most effectively spend our limited budget for space science. It was another “gut” decision by a scientifically uninformed president. Any discussion of manned travel to the Moon or Mars is premature until the true costs of manned flights and their budgetary impacts on unmanned research have been identified and evaluated.
469 2008-07-15 The rule change had been set in motion well before the Fed’s interventions to stabilize financial markets. These included its work to facilitate the sale of the investment bank Bear Stearns in March and the more recent opening of its lending window for the troubled mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

In December, the Fed acknowledged for the first time that lenders had aggressively sold deceptive loans, and it proposed that in the future, mortgage companies demonstrate that their customers could realistically afford to borrow.

Some critics said at the time that the Fed was doing too little, too late. But many others praised the Fed for reversing course after a long period of laissez-faire toward the lending industry that had contributed to the housing bubble.

The new rules would bar lenders of “higher-priced mortgage loans” from ignoring a borrower’s ability to repay from income and assets other than the home itself.

In a concession to consumer groups and other advocates for borrowers, the Fed dropped a provision that would have required a borrower seeking to sue a lender to demonstrate that the lender had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of deceptive activities.

“It’s a major step that the Fed got rid of the ‘pattern or practice’ requirement,” said Deborah Goldstein, executive vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending. “It would have been difficult otherwise for borrowers to make the case for deceptive practices.”

In another adjustment since December, the Fed shifted the burden somewhat to the borrower to prove a deceptive practice.

In its original form, the Fed proposed that if a lender does not adhere to certain precautions — like verifying the borrower’s income and ability to pay — the borrower can sue. The new rule says that a lender is presumed to have complied with the law if it verifies the consumer’s income and takes other precautions.

The change in the way the rule defines the presumptions was welcomed by the lending industry as lessening the chances of consumer lawsuits.

The Fed tightened one restriction on lenders, banning them from penalizing homeowners for paying off their loans ahead of schedule. The new rule applies if the payment itself can adjust during the initial four years of the mortgage.

An official at the Independent Community Bankers of America said that the change was helpful because it clarified the circumstances under which prepayments can be barred.

“We are comfortable with some control on prepayment penalties in order to protect consumers,” said Karen M. Thomas, executive vice president of the community bankers group.

The Fed also modified how it will define high-cost mortgages by saying the determining factor is a survey of mortgage rates, rather than an index of rates for Treasury bills. This change was welcomed by both consumer and banking groups as more precise and likely to capture about the same number of mortgages.

The Fed says that with the new rules, the overwhelming majority of subprime loans would be covered. The so-called subprime category, loans that have higher interest rates because of weaker credit histories by borrowers, increased substantially in the last years as housing values soared.

Several other practices were outlawed for subprime mortgages, including a ban on coercing or encouraging an appraiser to misrepresent a home’s value.

The new rule would require advertising to contain additional information about interest rates, monthly payments and other features for all mortgages, not just subprime mortgages.

The rule would also ban “deceptive or misleading” advertising practices for all mortgages, particularly in the representation of when a rate or payment is fixed and when it can change.

The Fed’s actions brought guarded praise from Democrats in Congress. Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who is chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said that the rule was “a positive first step,” but that it should have applied to a broader array of mortgages.

The changes in the rule from December were overseen by Randall S. Kroszner, a Fed governor, who said more than 4,500 comments came from community groups, industry representatives and consumer advocates.

“Abusive loans that strip borrowers’ equity or cause them to lose their homes should not be tolerated,” Mr. Kroszner said. “Listening carefully to the commenters, collecting and analyzing data, and undertaking consumer testing, I believe, has led to more effective and improved final rules.”
470 2008-07-15 Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae “own or guarantee half the mortgages in the country — but the half that they own aren’t the scary ones,” Mr. Hogan said. “They’re the most conservative: they can’t lend for second homes, they can’t lend for multiple properties. They’re the good guys and we’ve always known the government would rescue them.”

Shares in Freddie Mac closed down 8.2 percent to $7.11, recovering somewhat from an 18 percent decline. Fannie shares were down 5 percent to $9.73, after being up more than 6 percent.

“A rally based on nationalizing mortgage risk isn’t one that can really be sustained,” said Sean Ryan, an analyst at Sterne, Agee in New York.

Bruce Bittles, an investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company, said that the government’s plan was “not good news.”

“It was just an indication that these companies are in desperate need,” he said.

The rescue plan, which was announced Sunday, would give federal officials the power to inject billions of dollars into the beleaguered companies through investments and loans, easing concerns of failure at the two companies which together underwrite nearly half of all mortgage lending in the United States.

At first, the plan seemed to calm jittery markets. Stocks increased in Europe and futures in New York rose after modest declines in Asia. The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 0.58 percent in afternoon trading. The FTSE 100 index in London rose more than 0.74 percent, and the Dax in Frankfurt rose 0.76 percent. In Paris, where markets were open in spite of the Bastille Day holiday, the CAC 40 was up 1.02 percent.

But Wall Street was wary as it braced for its most influential banks to report quarterly earnings over the next two weeks.

Shares of M&T Bank, which kicked off the string of earnings releases, were down 12 percent on Monday after it reported second quarter earnings of $1.44 a share, several cents lower than analyst estimates. Shares in the National City Corporation, which is based in Cleveland, were halted after they fell 29 percent, to $3.15. In a statement, the bank reported no unusual customer activity and said that it had more than $12 billion in excess short-term liquidity.

Other bank stocks, including Zions Bancorporation and First Horizon National, tumbled after Goldman Sachs said regional banks may cut their dividends to restore capital.

“The problems in the financial sector have been a huge albatross in taking everything else down,” said Chris Lafakis, an economist for Moody’s economy.com. “It’s a market with no hope right now.”

The United States treasury secretary, Henry Paulson Jr., and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, acted after the shares of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae came under enormous selling pressure last week. Officials announced an emergency plan late Sunday in Washington that calls for the Treasury to greatly increase its line of credit to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and gives temporary authority for the Treasury to purchase equity in the institutions.

The plan also opens the Fed’s discount window to the two institutions , which American officials and lawmakers have repeatedly said are too important to the financial system to be allowed to fail.

“Paulson’s speech has restored some confidence,” Yves Marçais, a sales trader at Global Equities in Paris, said. “Last week there was real fear of a failure at Freddie and Fannie.”

Now, he said, “the sentiment in the market is that the U.S. authorities are prepared to do the maximum to rescue the companies.”

Even so, some warn that investors may be taking the government’s announcement too seriously.

“We’re looking into an abyss, but we should not confuse contingency plans with reality,” said Marc Chandler, the top currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman. “What the treasury and Federal Reserve announced is not a bail out, it’s only a plan.”

European shares got a lift from weekend news reports suggesting the private engineering company Schaeffler Gruppe of Germany might bid for the German tire maker Continental. Continental’s shares rose more than 20 percent in Frankfurt.

InBev, which announced a successful bid for the American brewer Anheuser-Busch, a deal that will create the world’s largest beer company, rose 4 percent in Brussels.

Asian shares fell after an initial rally dried up. The Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo fell 0.2 percent, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 1.0 percent, and the S&P/ASX 200 index in Sydney fell 1.2 percent.

Crude futures for August delivery, which hit a record $147.27 a barrel on Friday, settled up 10 cents at $145.18 a barrel. The market was focusing on a strike among oil workers in Brazil that could cut that country’s output in half helped to support prices.
471 2008-07-15 WASHINGTON — A federal appeals court on Monday unanimously affirmed the dismissal of a suit against The New York Times by a former government scientist who had asserted that he was defamed by a series of columns about the deadly anthrax mailings of 2001.

The three-judge panel said that a federal trial court judge had correctly granted The Times’s motion to dismiss the suit brought by the scientist, Steven J. Hatfill, a specialist in biological weapons.

The author of the columns, Nicholas D. Kristof, initially wrote about a government scientist he identified as Mr. Z, saying he was the overwhelming focus of the investigation into the anthrax mailings, in which five people died. In August 2002, Mr. Kristof identified Dr. Hatfill as Mr. Z, saying he had come forward and identified himself to the news media as the person being written about.

Although the federal authorities had deemed Dr. Hatfill a “person of interest” in the investigation, he was never charged with any crime and the attacks remain unsolved.

Writing for the appeals court, based in Richmond, Va., Judge Paul V. Niemeyer said that the trial court had been correct to rule that Dr. Hatfill was a public figure and thus had to meet an especially high standard to prevail in his suit against The Times. Under a landmark 1964 Supreme Court ruling, a public figure must demonstrate that a publication acted with “actual malice” to succeed in a defamation suit. That meant that Dr. Hatfill had to show that The Times knew or suspected that any suggestion he was involved in the anthrax attacks was false and published the articles anyway.

The appeals court opinion, joined by Judges M. Blane Michael and C. Arlen Beam, said that Dr. Hatfill was a public figure in the context of bioterrorism because he had through numerous news media interviews “voluntarily thrust himself into the debate” about the nation’s preparedness to deal with events like the anthrax mailings.
472 2008-07-15 SAFETY NET For decades, Treasury secretaries have insisted that the government did not stand behind the debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. But Henry M. Paulson Jr. is sending the opposite message.        Even as federal regulators issued assuranc...
473 2008-07-15 McCRINDLE--Joseph F., art collector, philanthropist and publisher, died at his home in New York on July 11 at the age of 85, following an extended illness. Great grandson of the American painter Henry Mosler, he developed an early appreciation of ...
474 2008-07-16 State regulators gave Verizon Communications approval to sell cable television programming in New York City, a decision that is likely to give consumers more choices and lower prices....
475 2008-07-16 What is it like to have bipolar disorder? To be labeled "crazy"? How do you balance the ups and downs? Here, in their own words, are the stories of nine men and women living with bipolar disorder.
476 2008-07-16 Juan Carlos Benitez, a lawyer and lobbyist who has raised more than $50,000 for Senator John McCain's campaign, was recommended by Jack Abramoff for a Bush administration post....
477 2008-07-16 Although the sacking of a public relations rep is rarely worth a mention, there are twists to the case of Maurice Levin, the ex-media officer for the Sotheby's International franchise in South Africa. For one, Levin went public with his dirty laun...
478 2008-07-16 The ad revisits an uncomfortable moment for Senator John McCain....
479 2008-07-16 Apple has sued Psystar, a Florida-based maker of Macintosh clones, claiming that the company makes poor-quality machines that infringe on Apple's trademarks. Apple wants the company to stop making the clones and recall the ones already sold....
480 2008-07-16 As in other challenges African Americans have met and overcome, these problems require clarity of purpose. They require the solidarity of groups like the NAACP. And, at times, they also require a willingness to break from conventional thinking.

Nowhere are the limitations of conventional thinking any more apparent than in education policy. Education reform has long been a priority of the NAACP, and for good reason. For all the best efforts of teachers and administrators, the worst problems of our public school system are often found in black communities. Black and Latino students are among the most likely to drop out of high school. African Americans are also among the least likely to go on to college.

After decades of hearing the same big promises from the public education establishment, and seeing the same poor results, it is surely time to shake off old ways and to demand new reforms. That isn't just my opinion; it is the conviction of parents in poor neighborhoods across this nation who want better lives for their children. In Washington, D.C., the Opportunity Scholarship program serves more than 1,900 boys and girls from families with an average income of 23,000 dollars a year. And more than 7,000 more families have applied for that program. What they all have in common is the desire to get their kids into a better school.

Democrats in Congress, including my opponent, oppose the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship program. In remarks to the American Federation of Teachers last weekend, Senator Obama dismissed public support for private school vouchers for low-income Americans as, "tired rhetoric about vouchers and school choice." All of that went over well with the teachers union, but where does it leave families and their children who are stuck in failing schools?

Over the years, Americans have heard a lot of "tired rhetoric" about education. We've heard it in the endless excuses of people who seem more concerned about their own position than about our children. We've heard it from politicians who accept the status quo rather than stand up for real change in our public schools. Parents ask only for schools that are safe, teachers who are competent, and diplomas that open doors of opportunity. When a public system fails, repeatedly, to meet these minimal objectives, parents ask only for a choice in the education of their children. Some parents may choose a better public school. Some may choose a private school. Many will choose a charter school. No entrenched bureaucracy or union should deny parents that choice and children that opportunity.

We should also offer more choices to those who wish to become teachers. Many thousands of highly qualified men and women have great knowledge, wisdom, and experience to offer public school students. But a monopoly on teacher certification prevents them from getting that chance. You can be a Nobel Laureate and not qualify to teach in most public schools today. They don't have all the proper credits in educational "theory" or "methodology" -- all they have is learning and the desire and ability to share it. If we're putting the interests of students first, then those qualifications should be enough.

If I am elected president, school choice for all who want it, an expansion of Opportunity Scholarships, and alternative certification for teachers will all be part of a serious agenda of education reform. I will target funding to recruit teachers who graduate in the top 25 percent of their class, or who participate in an alternative teacher recruitment program such as Teach for America, the American Board for Teacher Excellence, and the New Teacher Project.

We will pay bonuses to teachers who take on the challenge of working in our most troubled schools -- because we need their fine minds and good hearts to help turn those schools around. We will award bonuses as well to our highest-achieving teachers. And no longer will we measure teacher achievement by conformity to process. We will measure it by the success of their students.

Moreover, the funds for these bonuses will not be controlled by faraway officials -- in Washington, in a state capital, or even in a district office. Under my reforms, we will entrust both the funds and the responsibilities where they belong in the office of the school principal. One reason that charter schools are so successful, and so sought-after by parents, is that principals have spending discretion. And I intend to give that same discretion to public school principals. No longer will money be spent in service to rigid and often meaningless formulas. Relying on the good judgment and first-hand knowledge of school principals, education money will be spent in service to public school students.

We can also help more children and young adults to study outside of school by expanding support for virtual learning. So I propose to direct 500 million dollars in current federal funds to build new virtual schools, and to support the development of online courses for students. Through competitive grants, we will allocate another 250 million dollars to support state programs expanding online education opportunities, including the creation of new public virtual charter schools. States can use these funds to build virtual math and science academies to help expand the availability of Advanced Placement math, science, and computer science courses, online tutoring, and foreign language courses.

Under my reforms, moreover, parents will exercise freedom of choice in obtaining extra help for children who are falling behind. As it is, federal aid to parents for tutoring for their children has to go through another bureaucracy. They can't purchase the tutoring directly, without having to deal with the same education establishment that failed their children in the first place. These needless restrictions will be removed, under my reforms. If a student needs extra help, parents will be able to sign them up to get it, with direct public support.

Over the years, the NAACP has brought enormous good into the life of our country -- in part by broadening the reach of economic opportunity. There was a time when economists took little if any notice at all of the poverty of black communities. Even in times of general economic growth, many lived in a perpetual recession, and the jobs available didn't promise much upward mobility. Our country still has a lot of progress to make on this score. But with 1.2 million businesses today owned and operated by African Americans, more and more are no longer just spectators on the prosperity of our country. They are stakeholders. As much as anyone else, they count on their government to help create the conditions of economic growth -- and, as president, I intend to do.

Senator Obama and I have fundamental differences on economic policy. But when he describes my plan, I'm not sure his heart is always in it -- so let me have a go at it myself. I believe that in a troubled economy, when folks are struggling to afford the necessities of life, higher taxes are the last thing we need. The economy isn't hurting because workers and businesses are under-taxed. Raising taxes eliminates jobs, hurts small businesses, and delays economic recovery.

Under my plan, we will preserve the current low rates as they are, so businesses large and small can hire more people. We will double the personal exemption from $3,500 to $7,000 for every dependent, in every family in America. We will offer every individual and family a large tax credit to buy their health care, so that their health insurance is theirs to keep even when they move or change jobs. And we will lower the business tax rate, so American companies open new plants and create more jobs in this country, instead of going overseas to flee the second-highest tax rate in the world.

My opponent and I have honest differences as well about the growth of government. And it may be that many of you share his view. But even allowing for disagreement, surely there is common ground in the principle that government cannot go on forever spending recklessly and incurring debt. Government has grown by 60 percent in the last eight years, because the Congress and this administration have failed to meet their responsibilities. And next year, total federal expenditures are predicted to reach over three trillion dollars. That is an awful lot for us to be spending when this nation is already more than nine trillion dollars in debt -- or more than thirty thousand dollars in debt for every citizen. That's a debt our government plans to leave for your children and mine to bear. And that is a failure not only of financial foresight, but of moral obligation.

There will come a day when the road reaches a dead-end. And it won't be today's politicians who suffer the consequences. It will be American workers and their children who are left with worthless promises and trillion-dollar debts. We cannot let that happen. As President, I'll work with every member of Congress -- Republican, Democrat, and Independent -- who shares my commitment to reforming government and controlling spending. I'll order a top-to-bottom review of every federal program, department, and agency. We're going to demand accountability. We're going to make sure failed programs are not rewarded ... and that discretionary spending is going where it belongs -- to essential priorities like job training, the security of our citizens, and the care of our veterans.

To get our economy running at full strength again, we must also get a handle on the cost of energy. Under my plan, we will produce more of America's own energy. We will build at least 45 nuclear plants that will create over 700,000 good jobs to construct and operate them. We will develop clean coal technology -- which alone will create tens of thousands of jobs in some of America's most hard-pressed areas. We will accelerate the development of wind and solar power and other renewable technologies, and we will help automakers design and sell cars that don't depend on gasoline. Production of hybrid, flex-fuel, and electric cars will bring America closer to energy independence. And it will bring jobs to auto plants, parts manufacturers, and the communities that support them.

Our country is passing through a very tough time. But Americans have been through worse, and beaten longer odds. The men and women of the NAACP know more than most about facing long odds, and overcoming adversity.

Many of you are veterans of the great civil rights struggles of a generation and more ago. Like my friend John Lewis, some of you have seen enough years to have known Martin Luther King, Jr., and even marched at his side or not far behind in Birmingham, Montgomery, or elsewhere. For all of this, like Dr. King, you were called agitators, trouble-makers, malcontents, and disturbers of the peace. These are often the terms applied to men and women of conscience who will not endure cruelty, nor abide injustice.

Perhaps with more charity than was always deserved, it was Dr. King who often reminded us that there was moral badness, and there was moral blindness, and they were not the same. It was this spirit that turned hatred into forgiveness, anger into conviction, and a bitter life into a great one. He loved and honored his country even when the feeling was unreturned, and counseled others to do the same. He gave his countrymen the benefit of the doubt -- believing, as he wrote, that "returning hate for hate multiplies hate, adding deeper darkness to a night already devoid of stars. Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that."

I remember first learning what had happened in Memphis on the fourth of April, 1968, feeling just as everyone else did back home, only perhaps even more uncertain and alarmed for my country in the darkness that was then enclosed around me and my fellow captives. In our circumstances at the time, good news from America was hard to come by. But the bad news was a different matter, and each new report of violence, rioting, and other tribulations in America was delivered without delay. The enemy had correctly calculated that the news of Dr. King's death would deeply wound morale, and leave us worried and afraid for our country. Doubtless it boosted our captors' morale, confirming their belief that America was a lost cause, and that the future belonged to them.

Yet how differently it all turned out. And if they had been the more reflective kind, our enemies would have understood that the cause of Dr. King was bigger than any one man, and could not be stopped by force of violence. Struggle is rewarded in God's own time. Wrongs are set right and evil is overcome. We know this to be true because it is the story of your cause, and the story of our country.

As much as any other group in America, the NAACP has been at the center of that great and honorable cause. I'm here today as an admirer and a fellow American, an association that means more to me than any other. I am a candidate for president who seeks your vote and hopes to earn it. But whether or not I win your support, I need your goodwill and counsel. And should I succeed, I'll need it all the more. I have always believed in this country, in a good America, a great America. But I have always known we can build a better America, where no place or person is left without hope or opportunity by the sins of injustice or indifference. It would be among the great privileges of my life to work with you in that cause.

Thank you all very much.
481 2008-07-16 John McCain spoke at length about expanding scholarship opportunities, offering families more choice, strengthening and expanding charter schools and giving teachers and principals more autonomy....
482 2008-07-16 The long-running drama over CSX drew closer to completion on Wednesday, as the independent inspector of the railroad operator's shareholder vote said that a pair of activist hedge funds appears to have gained four seats on the company's board. The...
483 2008-07-16 Unanticipated effects of high commodity prices: FLINT, Mich. – Officials in Flint, Mich., say they've had to replace hundreds of manhole covers and grates that were probably stolen and sold for scrap....
484 2008-07-16 The presumptive Republican nominee will share his plans to fix the country's education system with an audience at the N.A.A.C.P. convention in Ohio....
485 2008-07-16 Aired Tuesday night on NBC: In a speech yesterday, Barack Obama called for African-Americans to be better parents. Obama said, "Not all black children can be raised by Angelina Jolie." Comedian Bernie Mac performed at a recent Democratic fundraise...
486 2008-07-16 The social news-sharing site Reddit has all kinds of topics you can click to customize your experience - from "geek" to "lolcats" to "Ron Paul" to "bacon." But here's what you get when you click on "intelligent":...
487 2008-07-16 The Bush administration's plan to rescue the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies ran into sharp criticism in Congress on Tuesday as some lawmakers questioned the open-ended request for money that could be used to help the companies. Th...
488 2008-07-16 Time Warner's discussions to merge or sell its AOL Internet division with Microsoft or Yahoo have taken on new urgency ahead of Yahoo's Aug. 1 shareholders meeting, a source familiar with the discussions told Reuters on Tuesday. The structure of a...
489 2008-07-16 Senator John McCain responds to Senator Barack Obama on foreign policy in Albuquerque.
490 2008-07-16 Opening and operating the nation’s first nuclear waste dump will cost more than $90 billion, an Energy Department official said. The price was $58 billion in 2001, the last time the administration released an estimate for the Yucca Mountain project in Nevada. The estimate includes $9 billion already spent and covers about 100 years of operation until the dump is sealed forever. Ward Sproat, the official in charge of the project, said at a Congressional hearing that the best-case situation would result in the Yucca Mountain site opening in 2020; originally it was supposed to open in 1998.
491 2008-07-16 An emotional George Steinbrenner, the Yankees’ principal owner, delivered four baseballs to the mound as part of the pregame ceremonies for the All-Star Game. It was Steinbrenner’s first visit to Yankee Stadium since opening day.

After the All-Star teams and 49 Hall of Famers were introduced, Joe Buck, the Fox broadcaster, referred to a special guest sitting in a golf cart in left field. It was Steinbrenner, who wept as he was driven across the outfield warning track and onto the field. He received a polite ovation.

When the golf cart reached the mound, Steinbrenner handed the baseballs to Yogi Berra, Whitey Ford, Reggie Jackson and Goose Gossage, the Yankees’ four Hall of Famers who were on the field. Ford and Berra kissed Steinbrenner, and Jackson and Gossage hugged him.

Steinbrenner’s health has eroded in recent years, and he has not been as much of a presence, physically or vocally, around the Yankees. Steinbrenner, who turned 78 on July 4, has owned the team since 1973. Commissioner Bud Selig cited Steinbrenner while explaining how logical it was to have the All-Star Game here in the final year of the current Stadium.

Once Steinbrenner handed off the baseballs, Berra tossed his first pitch to Manager Joe Girardi, Jackson threw his to Alex Rodriguez, Gossage fired his to Mariano Rivera and Ford floated his to Derek Jeter. So it was a catcher to a catcher, a power hitter to a power hitter, a closer to a closer and, in the only asymmetrical coupling, a pitcher to a shortstop.

“He should be honored,” Jeter said about Steinbrenner before the game. “He’s arguably the most recognized owner in all of sports. What he’s done with this organization, the way he wants to win every single year, he’s willing to do whatever it takes. People really appreciate him.”
492 2008-07-16 Against a backdrop of indirect peace talks with Syria, Israel is preparing to trade Mr. Kuntar and other Lebanese terrorists in a prisoner exchange with Hezbollah, which captured Ehud Goldwasser and another army reservist, Eldad Regev, in a cross-border raid that started the war between Hezbollah and Israel two years ago. Syria has always been one of Hezbollah’s main patrons, along with Iran.

The deal has stirred an especially painful debate in Israel, where the captured reservists, Mr. Goldwasser and Mr. Regev, both university students, have been declared dead. Though Israel has a history of trading large numbers of prisoners to receive captured soldiers, the prospect of exchanging the country’s most despised prisoner for corpses has raised hackles. There is also considerable mistrust of Hezbollah and fears that its seeming success in obtaining Mr. Kuntar’s release will only encourage it to attack again.

Hezbollah has said it carried out the 2006 raid in a bid to win the release of Mr. Kuntar, whom Hezbollah celebrates as a hero. Past attempts to secure his release include the hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship in 1985.

Mr. Kuntar, who was formally pardoned by Israel on Tuesday as part of the swap agreement, gave a different version of the night of the attack in his court testimony in 1980, excerpts of which were published for the first time on Monday in Yediot Aharonot, an Israeli newspaper. He told the court that Israeli gunfire had killed Mr. Haran as soldiers burst in to free him and that he did not see what happened to Mr. Haran’s daughter.

Smadar Haran, the widow, still lives in Nahariya, just six miles from the Lebanese border. So do Mr. Goldwasser’s parents; his wife’s mother lives just a few doors down. In a home surrounded by lush red bougainvillea, lemon and orange trees, and a high wall with a security gate, Mrs. Haran recently discussed her decision to speak out on the prisoner release.

Folding herself up on a high-backed striped couch, dark eyes staring straight ahead, she spoke softly but firmly of her decision not to stand in the way of Mr. Kuntar’s release.

“Samir Kuntar is not my private prisoner, and we live in a country where there is a framework for making decisions,” she said, echoing what she wrote in a letter to the prime minister and the cabinet ahead of their decision to proceed with the deal. “I asked them not to think about my personal pain and to make decisions according to the interests of the state.”

“What happened to me and my family will always be part of me, part of my personal pain, but it does not mean that I don’t see the pain of others, the Goldwasser and Regev families,” she said.

Mrs. Haran, who has since remarried and has two daughters, knows the Goldwasser family as acquaintances, in the way all long-time residents in Nahariya seem to know one another. They say hello in passing and share words of support, but they have refrained from discussing the prisoner exchange.

“What she did is a noble act,” said Miki Goldwasser, Ehud’s mother, who has aggressively campaigned to pressure the Israeli government for a trade. She knows the chances are low, but she still holds out hope that he may be coming back alive.

A poster of her son smiling on his wedding night a few months before his capture rests on a wooden bookcase behind her. The bookcase is full of folded-up banners, bumper stickers imprinted with slogans like “Don’t Leave Soldiers in the Field” and other paraphernalia used in the struggle to win the release of Mr. Goldwasser, Mr. Regev and another soldier, Cpl. Gilad Shalit, who was captured shortly before they were by Hamas and two other militant groups. Corporal Shalit is thought to be alive, and Israel has been negotiating separately for his release.

Mrs. Goldwasser said her son Ehud, then 3 years old, was asleep in his bed that night three decades ago when gunshots and grenades suddenly sounded a few blocks away. “We heard the gunfire,” she said. “Rumors began to fly.”

Danny Haran’s mother and brother have come out against the agreement, as has the family of Eliyahu Shahar, the policeman killed by Mr. Kuntar during the attack. The Shahar family even went to the Supreme Court last week, seeking to block Mr. Kuntar’s release, but the justices deferred from intervening in the case.

Smadar Haran, the widow, said she did not want to be seen as an obstacle. Recalling the night of the attack, she said the terrorists’ original plan was to kidnap Israelis.

“I could have been on the other side of this, and I would have been the one working to get my family released,” she said.

Ilana Hazan, 66, lives in what was the Haran family apartment. She pointed out the crawlspace where Mrs. Haran hid with her daughter, Yael. It now stores paper towels.

“I’ll be happy to see our captured soldiers return; we think of them as our own sons, but there is a terrible pain that comes with seeing him, of all people being released,” she said of Mr. Kuntar, her voice echoing in the quiet, empty stairwell that the terrorists came charging up so many years ago.

In the Lebanese city of Sidon, preparations are under way for a festive return for Mr. Kuntar. The central square is decorated with pictures and banners welcoming him home as a hero.

The swap is scheduled to take place on Israel’s side of the border at Rosh Hanikra. The town’s antenna towers are visible in the distance from Nahariya, where Mrs. Haran and Mrs. Goldwasser will be waiting for their shared tragedy to come full circle.
493 2008-07-16 Ms. Dunn said volume at the agency was up this year, with three or four times as many people seeking rooms as seeking boarders.

On a recent Saturday morning, while Miss Terry attended a training session at her church, Katherine Ongiri, 47, celebrated her first week of living in Miss Terry’s two-story house, where she pays $500 a month, in weekly installments. The women work different schedules, but have shared an occasional meal. Miss Terry helped Ms. Ongiri, who does not drive, get her check cashed, and treated her to lunch at Burger King.

“She’s good company,” Miss Terry said. “And I don’t mind helping because I know how hard it is when you’ve got to take the bus, because I’ve been there.”

Ms. Ongiri said of Miss Terry and her daughter, “I don’t mind helping her keep a roof over that girl’s head, because I know what it’s like.”

The two women’s routes to St. Ambrose Housing Aid Center, which culminated in Ms. Ongiri’s moving into Miss Terry’s attic, describe the multiple hazards of the current economic downturn: stagnant wages, rising energy and , exotic mortgages, job insecurity, neighborhood instability and the challenges for single working women to find safe environments for themselves and their children.

“A lot of prayer comes in,” Miss Terry said. “You don’t want someone to try to take over, or cause problems once they get a foot in the door.”

Miss Terry bought her home six years ago, in a hilly neighborhood in northeast Baltimore, for $92,000, with a government-backed mortgage and monthly payments of about $800. She had never owned a home before, and was excited to move out of subsidized housing.

After two refinance loans, like many homeowners she does not understand her current mortgage, which is an interest-only loan. What she knows is that her payments are now more than $1,000 per month, and that she cannot afford them.

“Everything was going up except my paycheck,” Miss Terry said. “During the refinance, people tell you you can get money to upgrade your home, and your mortgage will go up a little bit. O.K., but my paycheck is not rising.”

Ms. Ongiri had housing and financial problems of her own. Earlier this year, after a cut in her income — she works as an airport wheelchair escort, for $6.25 an hour plus tips — she moved into a rented room, only to learn the house was in foreclosure. When she moved into another rented room in a rougher part of town, she discovered that the other residents were three men. “It could’ve been very unsafe for me,” she said. “I wasn’t afraid, but I was uncomfortable.”

Roy Miller, a housing counselor at nearby Belair-Edison Neighborhood Inc., said most of the distressed homeowners he saw were unwilling to rent part of their houses to strangers, especially if there were children at home. Most home-sharing agencies have fewer than 100 matches at any time.

But Miss Terry did not know where else to turn. She was behind on mortgage payments, but the idea of placing an advertisement in the newspaper or online scared her — anyone might show up at her door. (In the current movie in which a family takes in boarders to save its home, a motley assortment of strangers unsettle family life.) Miss Terry turned to St. Ambrose, she said, on the advice of her supervisor, who said the agency would screen potential housemates to find a match.

Like other home-sharing agencies, St. Ambrose conducts background checks on both parties, screening out people with criminal records or histories of drug or , or those who cannot afford to be stable homeowners or renters. A 10-point questionnaire sorts candidates’ feelings about pets, , overnight guests and other points of compatibility.

“So far we’ve had no bodily damage,” said Annette Brennan, the program’s director (St. Ambrose provides a full range of housing services). “I say that quietly so as not to jinx it.”

In some communities, local zoning laws or homeowner associations may limit the number of nonrelated people who can live in a house. Ms. Brennan said that home-sharing could help some people caught in the housing downturn, but that its benefits were limited.

“Where we see it being of value is if someone is having short-term problems,” she said. “The average stay of a sharer is about a year, and some are much less. It’s good for someone leaving a marriage or a relationship, or going to school. You can’t count on it as a regular income. It’s a stopgap.”

After counselors from St. Ambrose interviewed Miss Terry and Ms. Ongiri, Miss Terry drove to the house where Ms. Ongiri was living alongside three men. Right away, Miss Terry said, “I’m like, she don’t need to be living here with three males. I felt as if I could help her, get her out of that area and that living arrangement. I hoped she felt the same way.”

Ms. Ongiri said she was relieved to know “I wasn’t going to move in and find the house was in foreclosure or something equally distressing.”

Agencies have different procedures for resolving conflicts, none of them perfect. Ultimately the onus is on the home-sharers. In , owners have to give renters 60 days’ notice to break their arrangement; renters must give 30 days’ notice.

At the Human Investment Project, also known as HIP Housing, in San Mateo County, Calif., Laura Fanucchi said her organization called both parties every three months, “to see if there’s any red flags.” But the organization cannot help with eviction, other than to refer the owner to appropriate government agencies.

For Ms. Terry and Ms. Ongiri, the arrangement has been smooth so far. Ms. Ongiri said she hoped to wash the chairs on the wooden porch as a surprise for Miss Terry.

“This is a good thing for me,” Ms. Ongiri said. “I’m in a stable environment. I’m not worried about being held up in the neighborhood. I can keep a job, and look for a better one.” The other day, she said, she saw a job advertisement that might suit Miss Terry, so she clipped it for her.

Miss Terry said if Ms. Ongiri were to fall behind on rent, “I feel we would be able to work out an arrangement. She wants to go to school. That encourages me more, having someone striving in the house. It’s not like this job is it for her. She wants more than that. When I see that in people, it encourages me to want to help. That’s my job.”

Renée Drell, executive director of HomeSharing Inc., in Bridgewater, N.J., where home-shares rose 14 percent last year, said that as mortgage payments, heating costs and taxes have all risen, homeowners are asking for higher rents to share their homes, often more than seekers can afford.

But Ms. Dunn, of HomeShare Vermont, said people should not look at home-sharing only as a last resort or a financial Band-Aid. “When you look at the data on people living alone, they tend to die younger and be sicker. We’ve done surveys, and people say they’re happier, sleeping and eating better, and feel safer in their homes with someone around. If I sold you that as a drug, you’d pay thousands of dollars.”
494 2008-07-16 The health care giant Johnson & Johnson beat Wall Street expectations on Tuesday with an 8 percent jump in second-quarter profit.

The company reported sharply higher sales of consumer products, including a new nonprescription allergy pill, Zyrtec, and medical devices like Acuvue contact lenses for astigmatism patients and surgical products for treating obesity.

For the first time, international sales topped United States sales for the company, which makes contraceptives, medical devices, baby care items and prescription drugs. Favorable currency exchange rates accounted for almost two-thirds of the increased sales, but the chief financial officer, Dominic J. Caruso, told analysts in a conference call that the weak global economy was not hurting revenue.

The company, based in New Brunswick, N.J., posted net income of $3.33 billion, or $1.17 a share, compared with $3.08 billion, or $1.05 a share, in the second quarter of 2007.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial, on average, expected only $1.12 a share, on revenue of $16 billion.

Johnson & Johnson shares rose $1.29, to $67.70 on the New York Stock Exchange.

Sales of medical devices and diagnostics, led by joint replacements and diabetes and vision care items, jumped 12 percent, to $6.07 billion.

Consumer sales rose 13 percent, to $4.04 billion, led by jumps in baby and dental care items and over-the-counter medicines, including Zyrtec, which became available without a prescription in January in the United States. Heavily advertised, it already has taken 27 percent of the nonprescription allergy market.
495 2008-07-16 When the United Auto Workers contract expired on Nov. 1, 1979, Mr. McCardell saw an opportunity to improve efficiency by persuading the union to give up rights it had won in past negotiations, particularly on overtime.

The union went on strike for nearly six months and eventually retained most of the work rights Mr. McCardell had sought to take away. Harvester had lost $479.4 million during the strike and $397.3 million in its 1980 fiscal year.

Union members complained that Mr. McCardell and his lieutenants only heightened tensions by acting arrogant and aloof during the strike, in one instance, they said, sending armed guards to watch dismissed workers clean out their lockers, The New York Times reported in 1982.

Another flash point was Mr. McCardell’s compensation package, which included a $1.5 million signing bonus and a $450,000 annual salary — astronomical figures for executive compensation then but modest ones by today’s standards. Workers as well as shareholders were also furious when the company forgave a $1.8 million loan to Mr. McCardell.

The labor problems only added to the company’s woes. Climbing interest rates, weak markets and high-cost plants had helped push Harvester’s debt to $4.5 billion. Only through an agreement with 200 lenders in 1981 did Harvester escape bankruptcy.

Mr. McCardell resigned in May 1982, although Time magazine and other publications suggested that his departure was really a firing. “The real wonder was that McCardell had not been ousted much earlier,” Time said.

International Harvester did not recover, and in 1985 it sold its farm equipment division, which had started with Cyrus McCormick’s reaper factory. Its crimson tractors and combines had long been a familiar feature of the American heartland. The remainder of the company, its truck and engines division, became the Navistar International Corporation in 1986.

Archie Richard McCardell was born in Hazel Park, Mich., on Aug. 29, 1926. He served in the Army Air Forces, then used the G.I. Bill to earn undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Michigan. He joined Ford as a financial analyst. In 1960, he was appointed secretary-treasurer of Ford of Australia, and three years later became director of finance for Ford of Germany.

In 1966, he joined Xerox as group vice president for corporate services, rising to president in 1971. At Xerox, he helped set up a program for employees to get paid leave in order to serve their communities.

His ability to cut costs and shepherd technological innovation attracted the attention of Booz Allen Hamilton, which was helping revamp Harvester. Booz Allen recruited him for the Harvester job.

Mr. McCardell later worked in real estate development, scuba-diving expeditions and other business ventures.

He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Edith Martin; three children, Sandra, Laurie and Clay, all of whom have the last name McCardell and all of whom live in Casper; two brothers, Allan, of Milford, Mich., and Arnold, of Perry, Mich.; one sister, JoAnne Iwanicki, of Warren, Mich.; and four grandchildren in addition to Mr. Arcenas.

Six months after Mr. McCardell left Harvester, he spoke to a group at Harvard Business School. He said he had two regrets: the controversial nature of his compensation deal, and not getting to know union people better before the strike.

Asked to grade himself, Mr. McCardell nonetheless replied, “I think I rate myself superb.”
496 2008-07-16 The railroad operator CSX reported higher second-quarter net profit that met forecasts on Tuesday, as strong pricing offset a 3 percent decline in freight volumes.

The company, based in Jacksonville, Fla., reported that net income rose to $385 million, or 93 cents a share, from $324 million, or 71 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding income tax benefits of 4 cents a share, the company posted earnings of 89 cents a share, matching analysts’ average target, according to Reuters Estimates.

Although freight volumes in its coal division rose 2 percent and in its agricultural division by 5 percent, volumes of most freight types declined in the quarter.

Automotive shipments fell 23 percent, reflecting a weak year for the auto industry, while intermodal shipments were down 2 percent. Intermodal shipments rely on standardized containers that haul mostly consumer goods or finished products.

Like the other major railroads, CSX has posted strong profits in recent quarters despite a slowing economy and higher fuel prices, largely because of strong pricing.
497 2008-07-16 In his address on foreign policy, Mr. Obama argued that the war in Iraq had distracted the United States from what he called the central front in the fight against terrorism, the lawless areas along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border where Al Qaeda was regrouping under Taliban protection. He said the well-organized attack on an American base in Afghanistan last week was a sign that the United States was dangerously outgunned.

Mr. McCain said that both Iraq and Afghanistan were important battlegrounds and that the United States had the ability to fight in both places as long as it retained the will to do so. But on Tuesday, after saying for months that no additional forces were needed in Afghanistan, Mr. McCain changed course and advocated the deployment of an additional three brigades, or about 15,000 troops.

Mr. McCain also said the United States should help strengthen civil institutions in Afghanistan and help eradicate the heroin trade, proposals echoed by Mr. Obama on Tuesday.

Mr. McCain painted Mr. Obama as naïve and untraveled, and pointed to his own extensive experience in the military and the government. “I know how to win wars,” said Mr. McCain, a former Vietnam prisoner of war. “And if I’m elected president, I will turn around the war in Afghanistan, just as we have turned around the war in Iraq, with a comprehensive strategy for victory.”

Mr. Obama, in a 38-minute speech at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, said the war in Iraq had distorted America’s foreign policy, cost it thousands of lives, tarnished its image and emptied its treasury.

He said that as president he would swiftly end the Iraq war and reorient the American approach to the world to address the challenges of terrorism, nuclear proliferation, climate change and energy dependence.

“George Bush and John McCain don’t have a strategy for success in Iraq; they have a strategy for staying in Iraq,” Mr. Obama said. “They said we couldn’t leave when violence was up, they say we can’t leave when violence is down. They refuse to press the Iraqis to make tough choices, and they label any timetable to redeploy our troops surrender, even though we would be turning Iraq over to a sovereign Iraqi government, not to a terrorist enemy.”

In a series of interviews, statements, advertisements and speeches over the past week, Mr. Obama has been laying out a broad vision of America’s role in the world in an Obama presidency. He has spoken of reducing American combat forces in Iraq and adding as many as 10,000 troops in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He has emphasized the application of so-called soft power, the use of diplomacy and economic aid, over the use of force. And he said that as president he would try to mend alliances that have frayed in the seven years of the Bush-Cheney administration.

Mr. Obama will make his first overseas trip as a presidential candidate at the end of the week. He is scheduled to visit Jordan, Israel, the Palestinian territories, Germany, France and England. He has also said he plans to travel soon to Iraq and Afghanistan.

President Bush, in a morning press conference just before Mr. Obama’s address, weighed in with some advice for the Democratic candidate.

Mr. Bush urged him to “listen carefully” to the top American officials in Iraq, Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker and Gen. David H. Petraeus. “You know, there’s a temptation to let the politics at home get in the way with, you know, with the considered judgment of the commanders,” he said. “That’s why I’ve strongly rejected an artificial timetable of withdrawal.”

The president also said he was adjusting troop levels to respond to improved conditions in Iraq and to new threats in Afghanistan. “The question really facing the country is will we have the patience and determination to succeed in these very difficult theaters,” Mr. Bush said. “We’re at war, and now is not the time to give up.”
498 2008-07-16 As several gay rights groups criticized Senator John McCain for saying he opposed gay adoption, the McCain campaign issued a clarification on Tuesday saying that he believed the issue should be decided by the states, and that such adoptions should not be subject to a federal ban.

Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said in an interview with The New York Times that was published Sunday that he opposed allowing same-sex couples to adopt children. “I think that we’ve proven that both parents are important in the success of a family so, no, I don’t believe in gay adoption,” he said.

When asked in the interview if he opposed gay adoptions even if the alternative was that the child remain in an orphanage, Mr. McCain — who, with his wife, Cindy, has an adopted daughter — said that he wanted to encourage adoption and make the process easier, but that adoptive parents should be mixed-sex, traditional couples.

On Tuesday, as his statements were criticized by a number of gay rights organizations, his campaign clarified his remarks.

“John McCain could have been clearer in the interview in stating that his position on gay adoption is that it is a state issue, just as he made it clear in the interview that marriage is a state issue,” Tucker Bounds, a campaign spokesman, said in a statement. “He was not endorsing any federal legislation.”

Currently only Florida has a broad ban on gay adoptions, but Mississippi and Utah ban adoptions by same-sex couples but not necessarily by gay individuals, said Chris Edelson, the state legislative director for the Human Rights Campaign, a gay civil rights group.
499 2008-07-16 The 46th New York Film Festival will open with the North American premiere of “The Class” (“Entre les Murs”), the Film Society of Lincoln Center announced on Tuesday. The film, by Laurent Cantet, won the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival this year. Other highlights of the New York festival include “In the Realm of Oshima,” a celebration of the life and career of the Japanese New Wave director Nagisa Oshima. The French writer, theorist and filmmaker Guy Debord’s 1978 film, “In girum imus nocte et consumimur igni” (a palindrome that translates to “We Spin Around the Night Consumed by the Fire”), will be featured as part of the annual Views From the Avant-Garde program. The festival will run from Sept. 26 to Oct. 12, with the Oshima and Debord films showing at the Walter Reade Theater. Other festival films will be at the Ziegfeld Theater while Alice Tully Hall, its regular home, undergoes renovations. Tickets go on sale Sept. 7.
500 2008-07-16 Intel’s results included $96 million in revamping charges, rather than the $250 million in charges it had previously expected.

Intel’s gross margin, a closely watched barometer of profitability, rose to 55.4 percent, slightly lower than the roughly 56 percent the company had predicted, but an improvement over 46.9 percent in the year-ago period and 53.8 percent in the first quarter.

Intel executives said the company had missed its projections because computer makers shifted to lower-priced chips, like the Atom processor that is used in low-cost mini-notebook PCs known as netbooks.

Despite its optimism, Intel’s missing its target on profit margins tempered Wall Street analysts’ enthusiasm. Intel shares rose only slightly in after-hours trading to $20.95. Before the earnings report was released, the stock had increased 24 cents to close at $20.71.

“Intel is executing as well as they have in 10 or 15 years,” said Cody Acree, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus.

Mr. Acree added that electronics were proving to be somewhat immune to much of the slowdown that is hitting other consumer products. “This is a segment of the economy that is continuing to see very resilient demand,” he said, pointing to the huge sales of the Apple iPhone 3G last week.

In a conference call with analysts, Mr. Otellini said that notebook sales overtook sales of desktop computers for the first time during the second quarter, faster than expected. “The crossover happened six months sooner than we thought,” he said.

Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has been buoyed lately by a wave of new products. The new Atom processor takes Intel into a high-growth sector that analysts hope will open up markets in emerging countries while expanding the company’s market in the United States.

On Monday, the company released the second generation of its Centrino mobile technology, which offers higher performance and faster Wi-Fi than the 2003 original while using far less power. Analysts expect the product to further bolster Intel’s mobile division.

Mr. Otellini said that the company was continuing to take steps to alleviate the problem of an oversupply of NAND flash-memory chips, which drove down prices, but he declined to elaborate on the measures.

Intel’s second-quarter report comes amid broadening concerns about the economy and its impact on demand from consumer and corporate spending. Intel expects revenue in the third quarter could increase as much as 5 percent to $10.6 billion and its gross margin could rise to 58 percent. Analysts have forecast revenue of $10.07 billion, on average.

Intel faced some setbacks during the second quarter, including the news that the Federal Trade Commission was formalizing its investigation of Intel’s business practices. The company was also fined $25 million by the Fair Trade Commission of South Korea, which charged that it had violated antitrust law there.

Still, Intel has continued to benefit from the missteps of its chief rival, Advanced Micro Devices, which for the last year and a half has endured product delays, technical problems and high costs related to its acquisition of the graphics chip maker ATI Technologies.

“I’d be a little surprised if we didn’t gain share, but I’ll wait for the numbers,” Mr. Smith said, referring to the industry practice of releasing market share figures immediately after earnings season.

On Friday, A.M.D. announced it would take $880 million in charges in the second quarter, as well as a $32 million revamping charge, largely from severance payments. In April, A.M.D. posted its sixth consecutive loss; the company is scheduled to report earnings on Thursday.

During the second quarter, A.M.D. overhauled its mobile chip lineup, giving investors hope that its competitive position could improve.
501 2008-07-16 Speaking only about this aspect, Howard Rubenstein, a spokesman for the participating newspapers, said: “The request for proposal is an opportunity we are jointly exploring to lower costs, improve efficiency and strengthen our respective newspapers.”

Lawyers for the newspapers are trying to find a structure for an agreement that would not require a joint operating agreement — a mechanism other papers have used that would require creating a separate entity with a separate board and essentially mean merging all business functions while maintaining separate newsrooms.

Instead, the talks have centered on combining printing, distribution and other back-office functions, while maintaining separate companies and news staffs, in an effort to cut millions in annual costs.

One important hurdle is deciding which newspaper’s printing presses would be used. Several years ago The Post invested nearly $300 million in a new printing plant in the South Bronx. In February The Daily News announced a large investment that would make it the first major newspaper in the country able to print color on every page.

The Post loses an estimated $50 million a year. The Daily News roughly breaks even. Mr. Murdoch had sought a joint venture with Newsday, an arrangement that could have wiped out The Post’s losses. A deal with The Daily News would not make The Post instantly profitable, but it would be an incremental step toward eliminating the paper’s losses.

It is not the first time the rivals have talked about sharing costs. In 1999, the papers held exploratory talks, and the issue has been broached at various times over the years. Now, according to the executive involved in the talks, the discussion has become more urgent, given the sagging economics of the industry. This executive said the impetus for the discussions was “the realities of the modern newspaper business.”

The talks underscore the deteriorating economics of the industry, which faces declining circulation and a flight of advertising dollars to the Internet. Heavy traffic to the newspapers’ own Web sites means a larger audience for the content that papers produce, but increases in Internet advertising have failed to make up for losses in revenue from print advertising.

“If you look at any other industry out there, you’d see shared services,” said Alan L. Marx, a lawyer at King & Ballow in Nashville who has worked on many newspaper joint operating agreements.

While the New York tabloids are searching for an arrangement that falls short of a full joint operating agreement, any business cooperation between them could bring legal scrutiny.

Mr. Marx said that sharing printing costs and making joint purchases of materials like paper and ink would present few legal issues. When papers discuss joint advertising sales — it is unclear whether this is under discussion by The Post and The Daily News — they risk coming under scrutiny for anticompetitive practices.

“The only area you get into potential issues would be the sales side, with prices,” he said.

Formal joint operating agreements have existed as far back as the 1930s, but became relatively common after the enactment of the Newspaper Preservation Act of 1970.

“The rationale for the Newspaper Preservation Act was maintaining two distinct editorial voices,” with the idea that was a public benefit, said Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute, a journalism training center in St. Petersburg, Fla.

Over the years there have been 28 joint operating agreements around the country, but now, according to the Newspaper Association of America, there are fewer than 10.

“J.O.A.’s have not worked very well,” Mr. Edmonds said. “I think one of the things that often goes wrong on a J.O.A. is when there is a stronger paper and a weaker paper, you usually get to the point where the stronger paper is not supporting the weaker paper in terms of circulation and advertising.”

Working together on the business side would present a stark cultural shift for the papers’ news staffs, each accustomed to seeing the other side as the enemy. Rumors that the two rivals might be in business together have already set off whispering in the Post newsroom and cocktail chatter in Mr. Zuckerman’s and Mr. Murdoch’s media mogul circles — it was one point of gossip during the recent Allen & Company conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.

Their rivalry goes beyond competing for scoops and the best photographs of New York City’s crime scenes.

Each paper gleefully, and often, reports with verve about the other’s internal gossip and the foibles of its prominent owner. The Post refers to its rival in print as the “Daily Snooze,” and in 2004 it published a nearly 4,000-word article that accused The Daily News of inflating its circulation figures. (The Daily News later accused The Post of dumping thousands of papers at recycling facilities in Brooklyn.)

In 2006, when a contributor to The Post’s Page Six gossip column was accused of trying to use extortion against the investor Ronald W. Burkle, The Daily News named the scandal “Page Sick” and “Page Fix.”

On the circulation front, The Post briefly zoomed ahead of The Daily News in 2006, in part because The Post cut its newsstand price to 25 cents. When The Post surpassed its rival, its front page blared, “Post Makes History: Beats News.” (The Post recently raised its price to 50 cents on weekdays.)

The most recent circulation figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations, released in April, show the papers roughly equal on weekdays: The Daily News comes in at 703,137, while The Post is at 702,488. On Sunday The Daily News has a substantial lead: 704,157 compared with 401,315 for The Post.
502 2008-07-16 LOS ANGELES — Ever since Microsoft waded into the video game wars with the introduction of the original Xbox in 2001, the company has spared little expense in trying to establish its bona fides with hard-core gamers. From the physical appearance of the first Xbox — hulking, extruded black plastic — to the testosterone-laden, shoot-’em-up essence of its signature game franchise, Halo, Microsoft’s first, perhaps only, priority has been to reach the young men at gaming’s historical roots.

Until now. In a significant shift, Microsoft introduced a new strategy on Monday to help its Xbox 360 console appeal to the broad mainstream. Lured by games and consoles like Guitar Hero, The Sims, World of Warcraft and Nintendo’s Wii, millions of consumers who never thought of themselves as gamers have begun to play in recent years. Mostly for that reason, the global game industry could approach $50 billion in revenue this year, by some projections.

So at the annual E3 convention here, the Microsoft Corporation announced a collection of new games and services for the Xbox 360 that are meant to appeal to the everyday consumer.

“For the last few years we have consciously and continuously fed the core gamer audience and now we are reaching that inflection point where we have to reach out to the mainstream consumer and bring them into the Xbox 360,” David Hufford, Microsoft’s director for Xbox product management, said in an interview.

“And what really is appealing to that mainstream consumer is that social experience, in the living room or online,” he said. “Whether it’s the older consumer or the Facebook generation, they see games not as a solitary experience but as something you do with friends and family, and that’s what we want to deliver this fall.”

At the core of Microsoft’s initiative is a new interface for the Xbox 360 that incorporates humanlike “avatars” representing players. Users will be able to customize their avatars and socialize with other players, even outside a particular game. Nintendo has successfully used a similar approach with its Wii, in which each person creates a more cartoony figure called a Mii. Sony is also working on such a system with a new service for its PlayStation 3 called Home.
503 2008-07-16 Erin Callan, whose rise and fall at Lehman Brothers transfixed Wall Street, has resigned to join Credit Suisse.

The move comes a little more than a month after Ms. Callan, 42, was demoted as the chief financial officer of Lehman, which has been rocked by speculation that it might founder. At Credit Suisse, Ms. Callan will run the global hedge fund business.

It is a high-profile hire for Credit Suisse and an unsurprising loss for Lehman Brothers. Ms. Callan, considered one of the most powerful women on Wall Street in her role as chief financial officer, struggled to regain investors’ confidence after Lehman reported a large, unexpected loss for the second quarter.

That loss, and Lehman’s failure to communicate effectively with investors, catapulted the firm from one of many riding out the credit crisis to one whose survival as an independent is in doubt.

Ms. Callan was demoted in mid-June amid a public battle with David Einhorn, a prominent hedge fund manager who has been outspoken about his negative views of the bank (he is a short seller of the stock, meaning he makes money when the share price falls).

During her short tenure as chief financial officer, Ms. Callan, a brassy and articulate banker who started out as a tax lawyer, became a media darling, appearing frequently on CNBC and in the financial media. She pushed management to be more transparent in reporting its results and met with hundreds of Lehman investors to make the case that the firm’s business was fundamentally sound.
504 2008-07-16 Mr. Obama acknowledged in what was billed as a major foreign policy address that the addition of tens of thousands of combat troops to Iraq early last year had lowered violence there. But he said that only strengthened his case for a rapid withdrawal, not weakened it, because the surge had increased the strain on American forces and had cost lives and money as the situation in Afghanistan grew worsened.

“George Bush and John McCain don’t have a strategy for success in Iraq, they have a strategy for staying in Iraq,” Mr. Obama said. “They said we couldn’t leave when violence was up, they say we can’t leave when violence is down.”

In a series of interviews, statements, advertisements and speeches over the past week, Mr. Obama has been laying out a broad vision of America’s role in the world in an Obama presidency in which he has emphasized the application of soft power — the use of diplomacy and economic aid — over the use of force. And he has spoken of reducing American combat forces in Iraq and adding as many as 10,000 more troops to battle al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

He said that as president he would try to mend alliances that have frayed in the seven years of the Bush-Cheney administration.

Mr. Obama plans to make his first overseas trip as a presidential candidate at the end of the week, visiting Iraq and Afghanistan with two like-minded senators, Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, and Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska. Mr. Obama, an Illinois Democrat, will then move on to Jordan, Israel, the Palestinian territories, Germany, France and England.

In a news conference this morning, President Bush approved of Mr. Obama’s travels, saying it would help him understand the realities on the ground, and he encouraged him to listen intently to the generals in charge of American operations.

“The question really facing the country is will we have the patience and determination to succeed in these very difficult theaters,” Mr. Bush said. “We’re at war, and now is not the time to give up.”

In his remarks, Mr. Obama said that he would look beyond the immediate crisis in Iraq.

“As President, I will pursue a tough, smart and principled national security strategy — one that recognizes that we have interests beyond Baghdad, in Kandahar and Karachi, in Tokyo and London, in Beijing and Berlin,” he said. “I will focus this strategy on five goals essential to making America safer: ending the war in Iraq responsibly; finishing the fight against al Qaeda and the Taliban; securing all nuclear weapons and materials from terrorists and rogue states; achieving true energy security; and rebuilding our alliances to meet the challenges of the 21st century.”

Senator McCain, who had criticized Senator Obama for questioning the current Iraq policy though he had not been there since the surge, took his opponent’s trip as an opportunity to tweak him yet again.

“Senator Obama is departing soon on a trip abroad that will include a fact-finding mission to Iraq and Afghanistan,” Mr. McCain said at his town hall meeting in Albuquerque. “And I note that he is speaking today about his plans for Iraq and Afghanistan before he has even left, before he has talked to General Petraeus, before he has seen the progress in Iraq, and before he has set foot in Afghanistan for the first time. In my experience, fact-finding missions usually work best the other way around: first you assess the facts on the ground, then you present a new strategy.”

Mr. McCain agreed with Mr. Obama that the anti-terror efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan could require more troops, and proposed adding at least three more brigades — about 3,500 troops in each — in that region. “I think we need to do whatever is necessary” in Afghanistan, he said on Monday.

But Mr. Obama said the evidence was overwhelming that the pre-eminent focus on Iraq, where the United States has five times more troops stationed than in Afghanistan, has distracted the nation from what he called “the central front in the war on terror” — terrorists led by al Qaeda and supported by the Taliban.

“It is unacceptable that almost seven years after nearly 3,000 Americans were killed on our soil, the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11 are still at large,” he said. “Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahari are recording messages to their followers and plotting more terror. The Taliban controls parts of Afghanistan. Al Qaeda has an expanding base in Pakistan that is probably no farther from their old Afghan sanctuary than a train ride from Washington to Philadelphia. If another attack on our homeland comes, it will likely come from the same region where 9/11 was planned.”
505 2008-07-16 The dollar fell to a new low against the euro, General Motors said it would cut jobs and suspend its dividend and a report showed that consumer spending slowed in June more than economists had expected.

Stocks fell sharply in morning trading; the Dow was down 200 points after the opening bell.

But shortly after 10 a.m., as Mr. Bernanke was speaking to Congress, investors did a double-take as oil prices, previously trading at record highs, suddenly plunged by $10 a barrel.

“The only times you’ve seen moves like that are in the first gulf war,” Ric Navy, an analyst at BNP Paribas, said.

The surprise development led to a midmorning rally in the stock market, which surged back toward positive territory.

Oil closed down $6.44, at $138.74 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, leaving analysts puzzled.

But the market revival did not last. After seesawing between positive and negative territory, the Dow slid in the late afternoon, closing down 92.65 points at 10,962.54. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index followed a similar trajectory, ending down 13.39 points, or 1.1 percent, at 1,214.91. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 0.1 percent, at 2,215.71.

Mr. Bernanke’s gloomy assessment was reinforced by two government reports released Tuesday, one showing that retail sales were nearly stagnant in June, even after Americans received tax rebates from the government’s stimulus plan, and the other showing that producer prices rose more than expected, a sign of accelerating inflation.

The trouble in the American stock market followed a painful day in overseas markets. European indexes all closed lower.

In London, the FTSE 100 fell 2.4 percent. The CAC-40 in Paris lost nearly 2 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt slipped 1.9 percent. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a benchmark of European blue chips, fell 2.29 percent.

The dollar fell to a record low against the euro on worries that the American government had taken on an enormous share of the nation’s financial risks. The dollar rebounded slightly during the day, and the euro settled at $1.5878.

“The U.S. dollar has come under broad selling pressure amid fear that the U.S. Treasury’s contingency plans for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be drawn upon, leading to further strains in the financial system, prolonging the crisis,” Marc Chandler, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, wrote in a note to clients.

General Motors shares rose nearly 5 percent after the company announced more job cuts and a suspension of its dividend. Wachovia fell 7.7 percent after a well-known Wall Street analyst, Meredith Whitney of Oppenheimer & Company, deemed the bank’s prospects “bleak.”

The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 9/32, to 100 14/32, as some investors sought safety in government bonds. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.82 percent, from 3.86 percent..

Following are the results of Tuesday’s Treasury auction of four-week bills.
506 2008-07-16 “It is my firm belief that young people are called to be instruments of that renewal, communicating to their peers the joy they have experienced through knowing and following Christ,” he said.

The 81-year-old pope arrived in Australia on Sunday, but will not formally join the celebrations until Thursday.

For days, Sydney has been crowded with pilgrims from all over the world, moving around in happy groups, identifiable by the yellow, orange and red backpacks that they have been given.

It has been a formidable logistics operation. Thousands of young pilgrims are sleeping in sports halls, churches and schools across the city.

And the event has found some unusual supporters - 282 pilgrims from Argentina, Brazil, and the United States are sleeping at the Malek Fahd Islamic School in a suburb of Sydney.

“This was a good opportunity to extend our hand in friendship and break down the barriers and misunderstandings between religions,” said Pinad El-Ahmad, who is in charge of inter-religious activities at the school.

“Hospitality is part of our Islamic teaching. We know that the Prophet opened his house and mosque to non-Muslims, and so it is only right that we should do the same,” she said.

Preparations for World Youth Day have not been without controversy.

In an attempt to ensure that the event ran smoothly, the state government in New South Wales passed a law banning people from “annoying” pilgrims, sparking protests that it was an infringement on civil liberties.

A federal court Tuesday struck down the law, paving the way for demonstrators to hand out condoms and coat hangers, references to the Catholic Church’s opposition to birth control and abortions they say are the inevitable result.

Many Australians are also uncomfortable that the local and federal governments are subsidizing the event with more than 150 million Australian dollars. Although Australia does not have the same constitutional separation of church and state as the United States, some people are unhappy that the Catholic Church, to which a quarter of Australians belong, appears to be receiving preferential treatment.

In the last two weeks, Cardinal George Pell, the archbishop of Sydney, has come under close scrutiny for his handling of a sexual abuse case involving a priest.

In 2003, the cardinal sent a letter to an alleged abuse victim, Anthony Jones, dismissing his claims to have been abused by a priest, in part, he said, because there had been no other claims against the priest in question, the Rev. Terence Goodall.

However, on the day he sent the letter to Mr. Jones, the cardinal wrote to another victim, accepting his abuse claim against Father Goodall.

Cardinal Pell denied any coverup, saying his comments to Mr. Jones were “badly worded and a mistake.” He has reopened the inquiry into Mr. Jones’s allegations.

The pope has indicated that he will offer an apology for sexual abuse by priests, as he did on his recent visit to the United States.
507 2008-07-16 Billy Wagner was not asked to pitch in the ninth inning, only the eighth. He was asked to retire one hitter, not two, not three, and a left-handed hitter at that. In All-Star Games, nothing goes as planned for Wagner, and it did not again as Tuesday night was about to turn into Wednesday morning.

Wagner, the Mets’ closer, entered the game with two outs, no one on base and the National League clinging to a one-run lead. He left three batters later with the score tied, another blemish in a trying season, and the American League eventually won, 4-3, in 15 innings at Yankee Stadium.

“I made some good pitches,” Wagner said. “I have no problem whatsoever with how I pitched. I mean, it didn’t work out my way, but we’re still playing.”

Wagner spoke to reporters outside the visiting clubhouse during the 13th inning, long after many of the starters had left, and, it seemed, about a month after he had given up the tying run, a double by Tampa Bay’s Evan Longoria that scored Grady Sizemore. That he was even selected to the N.L. team was something of a mystery. He had blown as many saves (five) by July 6, the day he was added, as he had in each of the last two seasons. Then, a few hours after being chosen, Wagner gave up a two-out, two-strike, game-tying homer to Philadelphia’s Jayson Werth for blown save No. 6.

He had converted his last three chances, but, again, everything changes for him in All-Star Games. Last season in San Francisco, he surrendered a two-run eighth-inning homer to Cleveland’s Victor Martinez in a game that the A.L. won by one run. In 2003 in Chicago, he allowed a two-out bases-empty homer to Jason Giambi, also coming in a game that the A.L. won by a run.

On Tuesday, Wagner started warming up in the seventh, stopped, then began throwing again in the eighth, knowing that Sizemore was due up third. After San Francisco’s Brian Wilson retired the first two hitters, Wagner trotted in — no “Enter Sandman” for visiting players — and gave up a sharp single to right to Sizemore. With Longoria pinch-hitting, Sizemore stole second on a somewhat close play at second, and two pitches later Longoria reached down and ripped a liner down the left-field line. He retired Justin Morneau for his only out, and he left with a 27.00 earned run average and, technically, another blown save.
508 2008-07-16 The rescue plan, which was hastily prepared over the weekend after a punishing week in the stock market for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, calls on Congress to give the administration the authority for up to 18 months to inject billions of dollars into either company through investments and loans.

Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary and the proposal’s architect, insisted on Tuesday that he had no plan to make any immediate investments or loans, but that he simply wanted to send a signal to jittery financial markets that the companies had the support of the United States government.

While administration officials continued to express confidence that Congress would act soon, the day’s events suggested that the lawmakers might impose some limits on the plan.

President Bush told reporters at a news conference on Tuesday morning that it was vital for Congress to act soon. “I urge members to move quickly to enact the plan in its entirety,” Mr. Bush said. “These two enterprises play a central role in our housing finance system.”

His views were supported by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, who said he expected that the administration’s proposal would be included in the housing package and that he expected it would be approved sooner rather than later.

“I’m optimistic we are going to complete the process this week,” Mr. McConnell said, “and also optimistic that the administration’s recommendations are going to be part of it.”

As other Republicans voiced their concerns, however, Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic majority leader in the House, said he expected that hearings would have to be held and that the House would not vote on the bill before next Tuesday.

At a Senate hearing Tuesday, Mr. Paulson found himself on the defensive as Democrats and Republicans repeatedly asked him how he could expect Congress to give him — and his successor — a blank check.

Mr. Paulson walked lawmakers through his logic. By giving him the authority to spend an unlimited amount of money, he said, the markets would accept that the government’s commitment is solid, and that would increase confidence.

In turn, that would significantly decrease the odds that the government would need to spend any money at all.

“If you’ve got a squirt gun in your pocket you may have to take it out,” he said. “If you’ve got a bazooka, and people know you have it, then you may not have to take it out. By making it unspecified, it will greatly expand the likelihood it will not have to be used.”

But the logic did not seem appealing to several Republicans and Democrats on the banking committee, who raised concerns about taxpayer exposure, and left unspoken the view that Congress would not quickly surrender the power of the purse.

“You don’t want to put a dollar amount — I understand the reasons for ambiguity and not stating things,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the committee. “I think you are risking taxpayer dollars here. To give you — we have respect for you at Treasury — a blank check? I’m not so sure. We’ll have to talk.”

Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said he had some concerns about the plan.

“How is it that we can tell the taxpayers that there is no way you are going to be put on the hook here?” he asked.

Some lawmakers viewed the unlimited financing request as the administration’s opening negotiating position. It also reflected a political budget reality. If the administration were to put a specific dollar request in the plan, it could force budget officials to recognize that amount on the government’s books, adding to the deficit or possibly leading lawmakers to insist, under the pay-as-you-go rule, to raise taxes or cut spending elsewhere.

The strongest criticism came from Republicans.

“When I picked up my newspaper yesterday, I thought I woke up in France,” Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, said at the hearing. “But no, it turns out socialism is alive and well in America.”

Mr. Bunning complained that Mr. Paulson would be gone in January, while most lawmakers “will be sitting at the table” left paying the bill.

“You want an unlimited amount and some of us at this table don’t like an unlimited amount of federal dollars,” Mr. Bunning said in a particularly testy exchange. “Do you really think we can believe exactly what you are saying, Secretary Paulson?”

“I believe everything I say,” Mr. Paulson replied. “I’ve been around markets for a long time.”

“So have I,” Mr. Bunning angrily responded. “Where will the money come from if, in fact, we have to use the backstop?”

After Mr. Paulson replied that he did not think any money would be needed, Mr. Bunning said, “That doesn’t answer my question. Where is the money going to come from?”

“And who is the government?” Mr. Bunning asked.

Mr. Paulson suggested that if Mr. Bunning did not like the plan, he should vote against it.

“I will do everything I can to stop it,” Mr. Bunning said, referring to the Treasury’s plan.

“And maybe you can come up with a better plan,” Mr. Paulson tartly replied.

Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, asked why the companies’ management should not be held accountable.

Mr. Paulson responded that since the companies were in one line of business and had not been lax in their lending standards, there was no reason to take it out on the executives.

“My experience with the management has been a constructive experience,” he said. “I’m not looking for scapegoats here.”

Across the Capitol, meanwhile, Republican lawmakers, including the House minority leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, the party whip; Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri; and the senior Republican on the House Financial Services Committee, Spencer Bachus of Alabama, all urged Democrats to take more time to go over the administration’s proposal.

Democrats, who found themselves in an unusual alliance with the Bush administration, immediately criticized the Republicans for endangering the economy by trying to stall the housing legislation.

Democratic leaders have said they would incorporate the Treasury plan to aid the mortgage giants into a package of housing legislation that includes a plan to help hundreds of thousands of borrowers at risk of foreclosure to refinance their mortgages. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and one of the authors of the housing legislation, had initially predicted that the House would add the administration’s plan and act on the housing package this week.
509 2008-07-16 Senator John McCain released an updated list of his top money collectors on Tuesday, revealing that nearly a fifth of those who have brought in the largest amounts for him, more than $500,000 each, are lobbyists or work for firms that engage in lobbying.

Mr. McCain added more than 400 names to an existing list of just more than 100 elite fund-raisers that his campaign first posted on its Web site in April. The campaign had promised to update the list regularly, but The New York Times reported last week that both Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, and his probable Democratic opponent, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, had not been living up to promises to fully disclose the identities of those who “bundle” millions of dollars in campaign contributions for them.

Mr. Obama, who first posted a list of his top fund-raisers early last year, added more than 180 names last week to his bundler list after an inquiry from The Times, leaving him with a tally of more than 500 people who have collected more than $50,000 each for him.

In his disclosure on Tuesday, Mr. McCain went further than Mr. Obama, specifying which people have raised more than $500,000 for him. (Mr. Obama’s highest category remains $200,000 and above.) Mr. McCain also lists the occupations and employers for each of his top fund-raisers — those who raised $50,000 or more — information that Mr. Obama does not provide and that watchdog groups say is critical for identifying bundlers and understanding their potential interests.

Although the Obama campaign draws a much higher percentage of small-dollar contributions compared with the McCain campaign, the candidates have a strikingly similar number of high-dollar bundlers.

At least one fund-raiser who was originally on the McCain campaign’s bundler list was taken off. That was James Courter, chief executive of the telecommunications company I.D.T., who resigned Monday as one of more than 20 national finance committee co-chairmen for the campaign, after I.D.T. was fined $1.3 million by the Federal Communications Commission for failing to disclose contracts it had in Haiti. The fine was first reported by the Web site Portfolio.com. Mr. Courter was listed in April as raising $100,000 or more for Mr. McCain, but campaign officials said he had been taken off because he was no longer raising money.
510 2008-07-16 BALTIMORE -- When Barbara Terry fell behind on her mortgage payments earlier this year, she did the previously unthinkable. Through a local housing organization, she and her daughter, Imani, 9, rented part of their single-family house to a strange...
511 2008-07-16 NAHARIYA, Israel -- Israel is a tale of family tragedies lived out within small distances.      Consider the Harans and the Goldwassers, two families in Nahariya linked by shocking killings nearly 30 years ago that have returned anew to break moth...
512 2008-07-16 ECONOMIC GLOOM Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, offered a bleak assessment of the economy, while President Bush urged Americans not to lose faith.       A debate about a second package of stimulus measures that has percolated in Wash...
513 2008-07-17 New York City’s unemployment rate rose to 5.4 percent in June as layoffs on Wall Street continued to shrink the financial sector, the state labor department reported on Thursday....
514 2008-07-17 The McCain campaign, which criticized Barack Obama for his failure to visit Iraq, now is criticizing him for going....
515 2008-07-17 For John A. Thain, the takeaway he must hope people take away from Merrill Lynch's $4.9 billion second-quarter loss is that its main woes are legacy problems. And those, he said, are slowly dissipating. Indeed, he argued that the firm's core franc...
516 2008-07-17 In a series of blog posts, Google has been explaining how its search engine works. It has a lot of technology that is meant to understand what users and Web pages actually mean, undercutting the idea that start-ups using "semantic search" technolo...
517 2008-07-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
518 2008-07-17 Politics | A columnist compares John McCain's campaigning not just to "spastic-goat rodeos" but to Hillary Clinton's failed run. Like her, McCain "seems to encourage an atmosphere of anarchy" and "finds it difficult to fire anyone." One difference...
519 2008-07-17 According to a Bloomberg report, investors rioted in Pakistan today. The head of an organization of small investors is quoted as demanding the government freeze share prices so people can get out without losing more money. The authorities have tri...
520 2008-07-17 Yahoo warned shareholders Thursday not to trust the "odd couple" of Microsoft and Carl C. Icahn. The three entities are embroiled in a proxy fight for control of Yahoo's board....
521 2008-07-17 While cable channels earned attention in the Emmy drama categories, the comedy performance races remained the dominion of broadcast networks....
522 2008-07-17 A selection of the actors and actresses whose performances were nominated for Emmy awards in 2008....
523 2008-07-17 Regular readers of my column–and I mean really regular readers - might recall that several years ago, I asked for nominations of good examples of business fiction written in the last 25 years. I promised to return to the subject in a future colu...
524 2008-07-17 Mania, shopping sprees, debt and desperation are all part of the world of people with bipolar disorder....
525 2008-07-17 The comedian Zach Galifianakis and company have been making some perverse Web ads for Absolut vodka that don't seem much like ads at all. The latest is just out, but perhaps it's best to start at the beginning. In this skit, which has something to...
526 2008-07-17 Battered financial shares roared back Wednesday in their biggest one-day rally ever, as euphoria tinged with a bit of panic swept Wall Street. Coming after a week of staggering losses, the surge left many traders dizzy. It was only Monday when ban...
527 2008-07-17 Australian hedge fund players have come out swinging against the United States' efforts to curb short selling, arguing that hedge funds are being targeted as the scapegoat for falling markets. The Australian, a newspaper, reported that local obser...
528 2008-07-17 Suffering losses brought on by the subprime crisis, Natixis said it would launch a 3.7 billion euro ($5.9bn) rights issue after revealing that it would make 1.5 billion in writedowns when it announces its first-half results next month, The Financi...
529 2008-07-17 On Wednesday night, HBOS shareholders were looking increasingly unlikely to take up their rights in the 4 billion pound ($8 billion) rights issue after the shares fell to 254.5 pence, or 7 percent below the issue price. HBOS shareholders have unti...
530 2008-07-17 George Steinbrenner’s reign in New York coincides roughly with the lifespan of Yankee Stadium II, which for the most part, it bears noting, is not the same thing as the Yankee Stadium that figured so prominently in all the ceremonial foofaraw during Tuesday’s All-Star Game. The original stadium, as we learned over the long course of the evening, was erected around 2000 B.C. and for many years served as a sacred burial ground and an astronomical calendar. Oh, sorry. That’s Stonehenge. In any case, the Yankee Stadium of all those sepia-toned montages was the old Yankee Stadium, predating the extensive renovation in the mid-1970s. The old Yankee Stadium was a very different place. It did not have instant replay, Moonie weddings or Reggie Jackson.

I mention this because for 30 years Steinbrenner and his vassals -- among them Mayor Rudy Giuliani -- spoke of the overpraised but perfectly viable Yankee Stadium II, no older than the Hustle, as if they were Jacob Riis picking through a Bowery tenement. Setting aside the usual towering self-regard of all Yankees, they trashed the stadium’s amenities, the location, the quality of construction, threatening at every turn to pack off to Manhattan or even the Meadowlands. As the excellent book "Field of Schemes" by Neil DeMause puts it, Steinbrenner’s tenure has been "little more than one long plea for a new city-financed ballpark," a wish that will be fulfilled when the new stadium next door opens in 2009, at a public cost that DeMause estimates will be just south of a billion dollars.

This is fleecing of a common sort in sports, but it’s important to remember now that baseball, with the All-Star Game, has commenced its maudlin requiem to Yankee Stadium. What baseball celebrated Tuesday night, more than anything, was a premature burial.

Sometime after the season, Yankee Stadium will submit to the wrecking ball. I am not sentimental about Yankee Stadia I and II, but the current park has one distinct advantage over the new one: It is already built. It will not soak the public for the additional $300 million in tax-exempt bonds that the team has requested or the $200 million (or more) in infrastructure costs. Just a decade ago, New York Buildings Commissioner Gaston Silva noted that "from a structural perspective, there’s no reason why Yankee Stadium can’t be around for another 75 years if it’s maintained properly." (He was reportedly silenced by City Hall soon thereafter.) This was of little consequence Tuesday night. In delivering their last rites, Joe Buck and his colleagues spoke endlessly of the history of the stadium, of all the greats who’ve played there, as if the only thing anyone could miss about the place is a bunch of fat old ghosts. There are far better reasons to mourn the death of the ballpark, however. I can count a billion of them.
531 2008-07-17 A federal judge has ruled that the state’s method of executing prisoners by injection is constitutional. The ruling by the judge, Fernando Gaitan of Federal District Court in Kansas City, late Tuesday appears to open the door for executions to resume after nearly three years. Last July, a group of condemned prisoners filed suit in federal court, claiming the state’s history of using unfit and untrained personnel as executioners could expose them to unconstitutional pain. But Judge Gaitan, who two years ago issued a moratorium on executions in Missouri over similar concerns, now says the state’s revised procedures are constitutional. Missouri has not executed an inmate since Marlin Gray, a convicted killer, was put to death in October 2005.
532 2008-07-17 Mayor Frank Melton of Jackson pleaded not guilty to federal charges in a sledgehammer attack on a suspected crack house. Two police bodyguards for Mr. Melton, left, also charged in the attack, Michael Recio and Marcus Wright, pleaded not guilty, too. Mr. Melton, Mr. Recio and Mr. Wright were indicted last week on three counts each of conspiracy and violating the civil rights of the owner of the private home and the man who lived there. They are accused of leading an entourage of young men to the house and using sticks and a sledgehammer to knock out walls and windows in 2006. The three also face a firearms charge. Last year, all three were acquitted of state felony charges stemming from the incident.
533 2008-07-17 The four-time defending champion Roger Federer and the Wimbledon winner Rafael Nadal will lead the men’s field for the United States Open announced Wednesday. The Open champions Lleyton Hewitt, Andy Roddick and Marat Safin will also be in the field for the tournament, which runs from Aug. 25 to Sept. 7 at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens.

Nadal, fresh off a thrilling defeat of Federer at the All England Club, has a chance to become the fifth man to win the final three majors of the season. Federer will be trying to become the first man to win this Grand Slam tournament five straight times in the Open era.
534 2008-07-17 The videotape has renewed questions surrounding fund-raising — and particularly foreign donations — to build the library of presidential papers, which is to be located at Southern Methodist University in University Park, Tex., a wealthy, independent city almost entirely surrounded by Dallas. The library is to be part of a center that is to include a museum and public policy institute that will generally be independent of the university, although it will appoint at least one board member. Money for the center, which is expected to cost more than $200 million, is to be raised from donors.

On Wednesday, Ms. Perino said Mr. Bush had asked that members of his foundation “do not inform him about anyone who has written a check, or decided not to write a check, until after he’s no longer president.”

Mr. Bush has said in the past that he would consider accepting foreign donations, and that he might keep donors’ names a secret if they preferred to remain anonymous.

But Dan Bartlett, the former counselor to Mr. Bush who is now a spokesman for the library, said Wednesday that the library had decided not to accept foreign donations until after Mr. Bush leaves office. Mr. Payne was not accepting telephone calls on Wednesday, according to the receptionist at his company. But he was quoted in The Houston Chronicle on Monday as saying he had nothing to do with the Bush library. “I was there to get a client,” the newspaper quoted him as saying.

The tape prompted Representative Henry A. Waxman, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, to announce an inquiry into whether Mr. Payne was inappropriately raising money for the library. Ms. Perino described Mr. Payne as “somebody who’s been involved in Texas politics for a long time and been a supporter of the Republican Party.” Mr. Payne was also forced this week to resign from an advisory committee to the Department of Homeland Security.

The Bushes favor S.M.U. in part because Laura Bush is a trustee and an alumna, having graduated in 1968 with a degree in education.

Methodists who oppose the project, including current and retired bishops and university faculty members hostile to the president over the Iraq war and social issues, say that an agreement by the university, which is owned by the church’s South Central Jurisdiction, to lease the land must be submitted to the jurisdiction’s 290 elected delegates. The lease for the center to the George W. Bush Presidential Library Foundation was approved this year by the jurisdiction’s Mission Council and College of Bishops.

The delegates, who are meeting this week in Dallas, are expected to take up the issue on Thursday. But it is not clear what, if any, action they may take.

“No one knows what is going to happen,” said the Rev. Tex Sample, a former advisory board member for the university’s theology department, who opposes the center.

“The church should not subsidize a political point of view,” Mr. Sample said. “I’d be against a Clinton think-tank, too.”

Mr. Sample said he did not expect the agreement to be reversed because that would embarrass the bishops. “But I don’t think the decision should be made based on embarrassment.”

Bishop Scott Jones, of Kansas, who wants to see the center built, said of the protracted disagreement: “Normally we would just move on. But this is George Bush, so it’s controversial.”

On Monday, two bulldozers and a 28-person demolition crew arrived to begin the next phase of preparing the 24-acre site, tearing down 20 more condominiums that students vacated in May. Condominiums where the elderly had lived were torn down first, their residents having moved to other apartments, nursing homes or to live with relatives.

“How can a Methodist school just kick out 80-year-old people?” asked Keith Kumar, who owns a postal store nearby. “It’s so sad. It’s all money and no values.”

More than a year ago, Mr. Bush told a local television station: “I understand there are some who have reservations” about the center, “and my admonition to them, or my advice to them, is just understand that a library, an institute, would enhance education. It would be a place for interesting discussion.”
535 2008-07-17 Columbus Circle has seen enormous change since 2004: the opening of the Time Warner Center, the reconfiguration of the circle with a new public space, and the nearly completed conversion of Edward Durell Stone’s 1964 “Lollipop Building” into the new home of the Museum of Arts and Design.

So the fanfare on Wednesday morning seemed justified when officials of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority formally opened two new stairways on the northwest corner of Broadway and 60th Street that lead into the subway station beneath the circle. About 50 yards away, a century-old entrance in the middle of a traffic island is scheduled to close to the public on July 28 for a renovation that is expected to last more than a year.

The two changes will have a subtle but noticeable effect on the 69,000 commuters estimated to use the 59th Street-Columbus Circle station each day. The station, which serves the No. 1 line as well as the A, B, C and D lines, is in the midst of a $108 million renovation.

The project, which began in 2006 and is expected to be completed next year, is intended to improve the flow of passengers through the often-congested station, which opened in 1904 and was expanded in 1932. The work involves the installation of a new elevator on the west side of Central Park West; other features to improve access for the disabled; upgrades of communications, lighting and electrical systems; and even an installation by the artist Sol LeWitt, who died last year.

The new subway entrances are part of a “control area” that cost $14 million and involved carving into the solid Manhattan schist while protecting a variety of crucial equipment used by utilities, including 20-inch and 32-inch city water mains, a 20-inch Con Edison steam pipe, and many smaller electric, gas and fiber-optic lines. The new entrances were built under concrete decking, which minimized the disruption to southbound traffic on Broadway.
536 2008-07-17 State regulators said on Wednesday that Verizon Communications could begin selling cable television programming in New York City, a decision likely to give consumers more choices and potentially lower prices.

Unlike Cablevision and Time Warner Cable, which sell video, Internet and phone services in distinct sections of the city, Verizon’s 12-year franchise requires that the company make its products available to residents throughout New York. Cablevision and Time Warner are not expected to apply for a citywide franchise when their current agreements expire.

Garry Brown, the chairman of the state’s Public Service Commission, said the approval of Verizon’s franchise was “a sure-fire win for consumers in New York City.”

Verizon is spending billions of dollars to build a new high-speed fiber-optic network to deliver those services. Twenty percent of New York’s 3.1 million households, mostly in Manhattan and Staten Island, now have access to that network. By the end of 2009, Verizon’s network will reach 30 percent of Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx.

A Verizon spokesman, John Bonomo, said the company would announce the details of its new offers in New York in the coming weeks. Not every neighborhood now covered by Verizon’s network will be able to get television service immediately, because central switching offices still must be upgraded to handle video services, he added.
537 2008-07-17 Mr. McCain’s message seems directed at what he views as the innate social conservatism of Hispanics. He seeks to appeal to their deep religiosity, strong and extended family ties and patriotism, and has also emphasized their propensity to create businesses of their own, with his support for more free trade with Latin America and special attention to Hispanics’ small businesses.

But on that last point, he may be hampered by his association with the Bush administration, even among those sympathetic to his message.

“I’m eager to hear what he has to say, but tax incentives do nothing for the people we serve, and the government has reduced or eliminated the grants that we need,” Cynthia Amador, who runs a small-business center for Hispanic women in Los Angeles, said before Mr. McCain’s speech to La Raza on Monday.

As for immigration, while both candidates say they favor comprehensive change in policy, there are differences in tone. Mr. Obama talks of 12 million undocumented immigrants in “hiding,” and of the need to “bring them in from the shadows.” Mr. McCain, from Arizona, a border state, says there are two million criminals among that group and also talks of drug traffickers manipulating immigrant flows.

Though the Hispanic population continues to disperse geographically, most still live in a handful of states rich in electoral votes. But those states are not likely to be the center of attention of the two campaigns’ Latino operations; California, New York and Illinois, Mr. Obama’s home state, are all presumed to be safely in the Obama column, while Texas is considered almost a lock for Mr. McCain.

Of the populous states with big Hispanic populations, only Florida is regarded as up for grabs, with both campaigns making an effort there. Instead, much of the focus has shifted to several small or medium-sized states, among them Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico, where Mr. McCain campaigned on Tuesday.

“We’re going to spend more money on Latino TV and radio than has ever been spent on a presidential campaign, and by a lot,” Cuahtemoc Figueroa, the director of Mr. Obama’s Latino vote effort, told members of La Raza on Sunday.

The campaign also views Mr. Obama’s half sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng, who taught school for several years in the Bronx, as something of a trump card to be deployed at events for Hispanic voters. “She speaks fluent Spanish, with a Dominican accent, and looks Latina,” Mr. Figueroa said.

Hessy Fernandez, Mr. McCain’s spokeswoman for Hispanic issues, said he was conceding nothing and argued that Mr. Obama “has been losing support” among Hispanics since he clinched the nomination. (A New York Times/CBS News poll found that Mr. Obama leads Mr. McCain among Hispanic voters by 62 percent to 23 percent.) Ms. Fernandez said Mr. McCain would “go places where no Republican has been before” in pursuit of Hispanic support.

Mr. McCain also has some unusual Hispanic surrogates from which to draw, she noted. For instance, his Naval Academy roommate, Frank Gamboa, has recorded a radio advertisement in Spanish in which he says that Mr. McCain “shares our conservative values and faith in God” and “knows that family is the most important thing we have and that we value hard work.”
538 2008-07-17 The Interior Department on Wednesday made 2.6 million acres of potentially oil-rich territory in northern Alaska available for energy exploration. At the same time, it deferred for a decade any decision to open 600,000 acres of land north of Teshekpuk Lake that is the summer home of thousands of migrating caribou and millions of waterfowl.

The decision will open up for drilling much of the northeast section of the Northeast National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, holding an estimated 3.7 billion barrels of oil, Tom Lonnie, Alaska state director for the Bureau of Land Management, said in a conference call with reporters.

The northeast and northwest portions of the reserve could yield eight billion barrels of oil, he said.

Mr. Lonnie said he expected the first oil production to begin in the easternmost part of the reserve, west of the Colville River, from 2010 to 2012. A fully developed oil complex exists on state lands on the eastern banks of the river.

The bureau has already leased out 965,000 acres of the petroleum reserve lands.

Stan Senner, executive director of Audubon Alaska, applauded the decision not to drill north of Teshekpuk, near Beaufort Sea, saying that it “acknowledges the international importance of the Teshekpuk wetlands, which have been protected by every federal administration since Jimmy Carter.” Ideally, he added, these areas will be permanently protected.

Aside from the prospect of expanding domestic oil supplies, the new production would help alleviate worries about the viability of the Alaska pipeline system.
539 2008-07-17 ITunes comes with a Visualizer feature that lets you fill your screen with trippy animations while your music plays. Just press the Control (or Command) and T keys to start the show. In some versions, a submenu under the iTunes View menu gives you options for different patterns like “Lathe” or “Jelly.” With the regular iTunes Visualizer animations, tap the slash key to bring up an on-screen menu of other Visualizer key commands — such as pressing I to display the name of the song that is playing, or C to show the name of the current screen pattern.
540 2008-07-17 McLEAN, Va. (AP) — The Gannett Company, the nation’s largest newspaper publisher, reported a 36 percent decline in second-quarter earnings on Wednesday as advertising sales in its publishing business fell 14 percent.

The profit, $233 million, or $1.02 a share, compared with a profit of $366 million, or $1.56 a share a year earlier. The earnings matched expectations of Wall Street analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

Gannett, publisher of USA Today, the nation’s largest newspaper, sold several newspapers in the second quarter of 2007, adding 32 cents a share to earnings. Excluding the sale, profit fell by 18 percent.

Revenue fell 10 percent, to $1.72 billion from $1.91 billion, in the quarter, which ended June 29.

Shares of Gannett, which is based in McLean, fell 78 cents, to $16.57.

The vast majority of lost revenue in the quarter stemmed from a 14 percent decline in advertising revenue in the company’s publishing business. Retail advertising fell 8 percent, and classified advertising fell 19 percent.

At USA Today, advertising sales fell 17 percent in the quarter.

In a conference call with analysts, Craig A. Dubow, Gannett’s chief executive, said he expected an increase in revenue in the current quarter from Olympics and political advertising.
541 2008-07-17 ARTICLE II of the Constitution declares that “No person except a natural-born citizen ... shall be eligible to the office of president.” This undemocratic provision could prevent voters from selecting their top choice, be it Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Austrian-born governor of California, or Jennifer Granholm, the Canadian-born governor of Michigan.

We cannot just wish away inconvenient constitutional language. Clearly, a child born in a foreign country to two non-American parents cannot ascend to the nation’s highest office. But does the Constitution also prohibit John McCain — who was born to two Americans in the Panama Canal Zone in 1936, while his father served in the Navy — from becoming president?

The Constitution does not define the phrase “natural-born citizen,” and there was virtually no discussion of it by those who drafted or ratified the Constitution. The language originated in a letter that John Jay, the future chief justice of the United States, wrote to George Washington during the Constitutional Convention.

“Permit me to hint, whether it would not be wise and seasonable to provide a strong check to the admission of foreigners into the administration of our national government; and to declare expressly that the command in chief of the American Army shall not be given to nor devolve on, any but a natural-born citizen,” Jay wrote.

In a short note to Jay, Washington replied cryptically, “I thank you for the hints contained in your letter.” Two days later, the requirement that the president be a “natural-born citizen” was formally proposed to the Convention. The proposal passed unanimously without debate.
542 2008-07-17 A genetic variation that once protected people in sub-Saharan Africa from a now extinct form of malaria may have left them somewhat more vulnerable to infection by H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. The gene could account for 11 percent of the H.I.V. infections in Africa, explaining why the disease is more common there than expected, researchers based in Texas and London say. The researchers said their finding had no immediate public health consequences. But if confirmed, it would offer an important insight into the biology of the virus.

The genetic variation has been studied in United States Air Force personnel, whose H.I.V. infections have been followed for 25 years. African-Americans who carried the variation were 50 percent more likely to acquire H.I.V. than African-Americans who did not, although their disease progressed more slowly, say researchers led by Sunil K. Ahuja, director of the Veterans Administration H.I.V./AIDS Center, San Antonio, and Matthew J. Dolan of the Uniformed Services University in Bethesda, Md. Their results were reported Wednesday in the journal Cell Host & Microbe.

David B. Goldstein, geneticist who studies H.I.V. at Duke University, said that the new result “would be pretty exciting if it holds up” and that many other researchers would now test it. “If the results are confirmed, it would mean that selection for resistance to malaria has created a vulnerability to infection with HIV-1,” he said, referring to the principal form of the virus.

The genetic variation, called a SNP, or snip, involves a change in one unit of DNA. This particular snip has a far-reaching consequence. It prevents red blood cells from inserting a certain protein on their surface. The protein is called a receptor because it receives signals from a hormone known as CCL5, which is part of the immune system’s regulatory system.

The receptor is also used by a malarial parasite called Plasmodium vivax to gain entry to the red blood cells it feeds on. About 10,000 years ago, people in Africa who possessed the SNP variation gained a powerful survival advantage from not being vulnerable to the ancestor of Plasmodium vivax. The SNP eventually swept through the population and the vivax parasite died out in Africa, to be replaced by its current successor, Plasmodium falciparum.
543 2008-07-17 BANGKOK — In what seemed a reprise of one of the more unusual moments in recent Malaysian history, police officers wearing ski masks seized the country’s most prominent opposition politician, Anwar Ibrahim, on Wednesday and took him to jail on suspicion of sodomy.

Although Mr. Anwar was freed on bail on Thursday morning, his lawyers said, his arrest was likely to add to political tensions that have grown since the governing party suffered the biggest losses in its history in an election in March.

Mr. Anwar, 61, has strongly denied the accusation of sodomy, which was made last month by a 23-year-old male aide. He called it a political fabrication by the same governing establishment that convicted him on charges of sodomy and corruption in 1998. The sodomy conviction was later overturned. Sex between males is against the law in Malaysia.

After his previous arrest, tens of thousands of supporters challenged the government in the streets.

The manner of Mr. Anwar’s arrest on Wednesday seemed intended to intimidate and to challenge the opposition as much as to enforce the law.

According to one of his lawyers, Sankara Nair, who said he witnessed the arrest, Mr. Anwar was pulled roughly from his car and driven to the police headquarters just one hour before he had promised to turn himself in.
544 2008-07-17 Bond prices declined and the dollar strengthened against the euro.

The fall in oil prices comes as the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, provided a bleak assessment of the American economy over two days of testimony before Congress. It was also ignited by fresh evidence that Americans were reducing their energy use.

A weekly report by the Energy Department showed that commercial oil inventories, which were expected to fall, rose unexpectedly on Wednesday as more oil went into storage than expected instead of being refined and sold.

Bleak economic news has been building over the last few weeks, in particular with the renewed concerns over the American banking and mortgage industry.

At the same time, some of the geopolitical tensions that surrounded the move of oil prices toward $150 a barrel also showed some signs of easing.

The Bush administration said on Tuesday that it would allow a senior diplomat to attend a meeting of European and Iranian negotiators over Iran’s nuclear program, in what would be the highest-level talks between American and Iranian representatives since 1979. Fears of a military strike by Israel or the United States on Iran’s nuclear operations helped push oil prices to record highs last week.

“Things have been looking rather glum over the past couple of days,” said John Kilduff, an energy analyst at MF Global. He called the news about talks with Iran and the unexpected increase in oil inventories “a one-two punch for bears” that could signal a deeper drop in prices in coming weeks.

Oil prices have risen more than sevenfold since 2002 as fast-growing demand in developing countries has outpaced the growth in new oil supplies. In the past year, they’ve more than doubled, pushing gasoline prices above $4 a gallon in the United States and leading to frenzied efforts in Congress to address runaway energy costs.

But as high energy prices ripple through the economy, there is growing unease at how much they are contributing to higher costs for everything from food to consumer goods. Consumer prices have risen at their fastest pace in 17 years in June, according to a government report released Wednesday.

Businesses are also being hit hard. Automakers and airlines like General Motors and Delta Airlines are losing billions of dollars and laying off thousands of employees.

Consumers have sharply reduced their gasoline consumption in the face of record prices. Gasoline demand in the United States, for example, fell 5.2 percent last week, according to a nationwide survey by MasterCard, its 12th consecutive weekly drop.

Despite the falling price of oil, gasoline is still rising. Retail gasoline, on a nationwide average, set a record at $4.11 a gallon on Wednesday, according to AAA. Diesel also touched a new high of $4.84 a gallon.

As a result of these higher prices and reduced demand, refiners are using less oil. Instead of falling as refiners draw on their inventories, oil stocks built up. Oil stocks rose 2.95 million barrels to 296.9 million barrels last week, a report by the Department of Energy showed on Wednesday. Analysts had expected inventories to drop by about 2.2 million barrels.

Most analysts expect global oil demand to slow this year and next. OPEC on Tuesday cut its forecast for the growth in oil consumption next year by 100,000 barrels a day to 900,000 barrels a day. The oil cartel suggested that prices might also ease as more supplies come on the market.

“The decline in demand for OPEC crude combined with increasing OPEC capacity should further ease market conditions and likely help moderate prices,” the report said. “Whether the market will fully benefit from the softening fundamentals will depend on other factors such as geopolitical tensions, financial markets developments and downstream constraints.”
545 2008-07-17 That increase caps a year in which inflation has surged to proportions seen by some as threatening the stability of the American economy. In the last 12 months, the Consumer Price Index has risen 5 percent, the biggest annual jump since May 1991.

“The U.S. economy is becoming weaker and is unable to sustain oil consumption at these prices,” said James Crandell, a commodity analyst at Lehman Brothers. “But it is still too early to call this a tipping point because of some major risks we might face this summer, like hurricanes or geopolitical events.”

The concern about rising costs was echoed by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who provided a bleak assessment of the American economy over two days of testimony to Congress, warning that inflation posed a significant risk to the nation’s economic outlook.

Mr. Bernanke told lawmakers Wednesday that he saw increased risk of inflation. “The rising prices of energy and some other commodities have led to a sharp pickup in inflation,” he said, “and some measures of inflation expectations have moved higher.”

The Consumer Price Index report, released Wednesday, reinforces what many economists, including those at the Fed, have warned about for months: Americans are being forced to pay significantly higher prices, even as the job market weakens and big employers announce plans to lay off thousands of workers.

“There’s not enough lipstick to put on this pig,” said Richard Moody, an economist at the real estate firm Mission Residential. “No matter how one slices and dices the C.P.I. data, the bottom line is that U.S. workers are falling farther and farther behind.”

A weekly report by the Energy Department showed that commercial oil inventories, which were expected to fall, rose instead last week as more oil went into storage rather than being refined and sold at the pump.

Oil futures fell $4.14, or 3 percent, to $134.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That followed a $6.44 drop on Tuesday, the biggest one-day decline since 1991. Last week, oil reached a record, during trading hours, above $147 a barrel.

Some analysts said oil prices might have reached a peak last week, with big customers like airlines and refiners balking at paying close to $150 a barrel.

“We’re definitely seeing a turnaround in the market, at least in the short term,” said David Kirsch, an energy analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting group in Washington. “A lot of quarters are concluding that oil is just too expensive, particularly in this economic environment.”

But while demand is falling in the United States and Western Europe, oil consumption is still expected to rise this year because of growth in China, India and the Middle East. That growth still provides a floor for oil prices.

The drop in prices was exacerbated by easing geopolitical tensions that had sustained last week’s gains, particularly surrounding Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest oil producer, as well as more positive news from Nigeria, where production resumed after recent interruptions.

John Kilduff, an energy analyst at the brokerage firm MF Global, said the news about direct talks between the United States and Iran and the unexpected increase in oil inventories, were “a one-two punch for bears” that could signal a steeper drop in prices in coming weeks.

Oil prices have risen more than sevenfold since 2002 as fast-growing demand in developing countries has outpaced new oil supplies. That has led to efforts in Congress to address runaway energy costs by allowing more offshore drilling to increase domestic supplies, for example.

In the United States, gasoline demand fell by 5.2 percent last week, according to a survey by MasterCard, the 12th consecutive weekly drop. Since the beginning of the year, gasoline demand has fallen by about 1 percent, compared with the same period last year.

As a result of higher gas prices and reduced demand, refiners are using less oil. Instead of falling as refiners draw on their inventories as is common at this time of year, oil reserves have been building up. Oil inventories rose 2.95 million barrels last week, to 296.9 million barrels, the Energy Department said Wednesday. Analysts had expected inventories to drop by about 2.2 million barrels.

A day after offering a generally bleak assessment of the economy in testimony before the Senate, Mr. Bernanke sought on Wednesday to assure members of a House committee that the economy would recover.

“We will work our way through these financial storms,” he told a questioner. “We will work our way through this cyclical movement that we have. And the economy will return to good growth. But we just have a few things to work through on the way to doing that.”
546 2008-07-17 OIL PRICES FALTER Oil prices fell sharply for the second consecutive day, triggered in part by fresh evidence that Americans were driving less because of gas prices.      SMALL CAR COMFORTS People of all income levels are buying small cars to save...
547 2008-07-18 Just over a week after drawing outcry for his comments about a "nation of whiners" fretting over a "mental recession," Phil Gramm announced he was stepping down as co-chairman of Senator John McCain's campaign....
548 2008-07-18 The television commercial keeps the focus on national security and contrasts Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama's position on Iraq....
549 2008-07-18 An hour-long results episode of "So You Think You Can Dance" garnered 8.2 million viewers on Thursday, enough to elevate Fox into first place for the night's ratings, according to Nielsen's estimates. Although the 9 p.m. reality show lagged behind...
550 2008-07-18 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
551 2008-07-18 Asked about the Iraq war during an event for General Motors, Senator John McCain insisted on the need to persevere there and warned that Al-Qaeda can be expected to kick up its attacks....
552 2008-07-18 Citigroup's second-quarter earnings may have beaten the Street's pessimistic expectations, but the fate of the banking giant's stock dividend continues to obsess analysts. On a conference call Friday morning to discuss the bank's results, Mike May...
553 2008-07-18 A round-up of readers' comments on Title IX and women in science....
554 2008-07-18 A sweeping review finds higher suicide risks for both bullies and their victims....
555 2008-07-18 Financial industry executives are mustering on Capitol Hill to head off a Congressional effort to rewrite the rules for the nation's energy markets, The New York Times reports. They say it could unsettle already nervous markets and push more energ...
556 2008-07-18 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson will deliver remarks on financial markets and the economy on Tuesday in New York, Reuters reported. The speech at the New York Public Library comes as Mr. Paulson and other Treasury officials have been trying to sh...
557 2008-07-18 Bradford & Bingley shareholders approved the bank's 400 million pound ($799 million) rights issue at an extraordinary general meeting on Thursday, The Telegraph reported. The lender will now be able to move forward with its cash call, which had be...
558 2008-07-18 More of your "late night" jokes (send via the comment link below): Officials in Denver will give homeless people passes to the Denver zoo while the Democratic National Convention is in town next month. That way, they won't miss much of what's goin...
559 2008-07-18 Jacques Nolot’s film “Before I Forget” begins with the image of a blank screen with a small dot at the center that slowly expands into a round black hole, a stark image of the void that looms more prominently as we age.

But for Pierre (Mr. Nolot), the film’s 60-year-old protagonist, who lives alone in a modest Paris apartment, the near future is more ominous than for most. Pierre, H.I.V. positive for 24 years, has been advised to take a more aggressive drug cocktail than the medication that has sustained him. He is reluctant because of its toxic side effects, including hair loss. His body may be dilapidated, but his face is still handsome in a hawklike way, and crowned by an elegant gray mane.

With its shots of Pierre, naked, in the throes of simulated sex, “Before I Forget” is an unblinking portrait of a complicated, solitary gay man who has outlived his working years. A male escort who for decades was kept by a lion of French society 15 years his senior who has just died, Pierre is reduced to paying rent boys for sex, an activity he pursues assiduously even though he doesn’t appear to enjoy it very much.

Sex for pay has been the theme of his life since his late teens, and now the roles are reversed; it is his turn to purchase the kind of ritualized domination found in Jean Genet novels. You sense that he seeks to be punished by versions of his younger self. It doesn’t seem to have occurred to Pierre that there is any other kind of erotic transaction worth pursuing.

“Before I Forget” is the third semi-autobiographical film in a trilogy by Mr. Nolot, a French actor, writer and director closely associated with André Téchiné. This movie follows Pierre around Paris as he visits acquaintances in his circle of johns and hustlers, has sessions with an obtuse psychiatrist and remembers how the family of his longtime sugar daddy closed ranks and shut Pierre out of his inheritance.
560 2008-07-18 HOUSTON (AP) — Four workers were killed and six injured when a crane collapsed on Friday during routine maintenance at a chemical plant here, a company official said.

A fire official said that contract workers at the plant, the LyondellBasell refinery, were preparing to do routine maintenance when the several-hundred-feet-long crane toppled over.

The crane, operated by Deep South Crane and Rigging, was not scheduled to be active Friday, although the engine was running after it hit the ground, according to Jim Roecker, a vice president for refining at LyondellBasell.

Mr. Roecker said that about 1,500 contract workers are employed at the refinery.

An assistant chief of the Houston Fire Department, Omero Longoria, said that five people were taken to area hospitals — two in critical condition and three others with trauma-related injuries.

There has been a spate of crane collapses nationwide in recent months. In New York City, two crane accidents since March have killed nine people — more than the total number of deaths from incidents involving cranes over the past decade. There have also been crane accidents in Miami and Las Vegas.

An Associated Press analysis last month June found that cities and states have varying rules governing construction cranes, and some have no regulations at all, relying instead on federal guidelines dating back nearly 40 years that some experts say have not kept up with technological advances.
561 2008-07-18 Most Japanese stocks fell on Friday, led by oil explorers after crude prices fell to a one-month low. Brokerage firms and banks gained amid confidence that they would fare better than their rivals in the United States and Europe.

Shares of Inpex Holdings, Japan’s biggest oil explorer, sank to their lowest level in more than two months after the price of crude oil declined 11 percent in three days. Nomura Holdings, Japan’s largest brokerage firm, rose to its highest level in two weeks, helped by its plans to expand operations in India.

The Topix was little changed at 1,263.58 at 12:41 p.m. in Tokyo after rising as much as 1.1 percent. About three shares fell for every two that gained on the benchmark. The Nikkei 225 stock average was also little changed at 12,885.17.

The Nikkei is headed for a 1.1 percent drop on the week, while the Topix is set to fall 1.7 percent. Both gauges have declined for the last six weeks, which is the Topix’s longest losing streak since September 2001.
562 2008-07-18 BP said on Thursday it had agreed to buy 90,000 acres of natural gas properties in Oklahoma from the Chesapeake Energy Corporation for $1.75 billion.

The properties, which are in the Arkoma Basin region’s Woodford Shale, are producing about 50 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent a day.

BP said the purchase had the potential to double its existing production from its Arkoma operations, which already produce more than 200 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent a day.

Energy companies are spending heavily to lock up acreage in plays for hot shale, where oil and natural gas are trapped in layers of rock. Record energy prices and technology like horizontal drilling have made retrieving hydrocarbons from shale profitable.

Shell Canada agreed this week to spend about $5.9 billion to buy Canada’s Duvernay Oil Corporation to increase its production from difficult-to-extract deposits.

Stock in BP, which is based in London, rose 10.25 pence, to £5.19 a share, and stock in Chesapeake, which is based in Oklahoma City, Okla., rose $1.93, to $54.74 a share.
563 2008-07-18 State overseers of the Big Dig highway project in Boston said total costs of the project would reach $22 billion, nearly 50 percent higher than the most recent public estimate, but they insisted that no gasoline tax or toll increases were being considered to pay for it. The Boston Globe reported that the $15 billion price tag repeatedly used by the state officials did not include $7 billion in interest. The project will not be paid off until 2038. The Globe said a review of thousands of pages of state documents showed that the huge cost of the project has had a ripple effect on state finances, with the state making $600 million or more a year in payments and diverting money from needed repairs to roads and bridges.
564 2008-07-18 Morocco plans to send scores of moderate Muslim clerics to Europe in September in the holy month of Ramadan to help fight extremism among Moroccans abroad, the ministry for religious affairs said. The government will send 167 men and 9 women to preach to Moroccan immigrants. They are instructed to “answer the religious needs of the Moroccan community abroad, to protect it from any speeches of extremism or irregular nature, and to shelter it from extremism and fanaticism,” the religious affairs ministry said.
565 2008-07-18 But their concerns are colliding with the determination of lawmakers, who have held more than 40 hearings on “excessive speculation” this year, to take some legislative action to address the economic pain being inflicted on consumers by soaring oil and gas prices.

“This issue is so serious,” said Gregory Zerzan, counsel and head of global public policy for the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, “that the senior businesspeople on Wall Street are weighing in to make sure that Congress is fully aware of the potential economic consequences of going too far.”

Supporters of the Reid bill say it will address the runaway speculation they blame for as much as 30 percent of the price of crude oil, which fell Thursday for the third consecutive day to about $129 a barrel. It would also substantially increase staff levels at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates these markets.

“Right now, Wall Street traders can raise oil and gas prices simply by logging onto their computers and executing a few trades,” Mr. Reid said at a news conference Thursday.

“We’re not saying that all speculation is bad,” he added. “But without proper market oversight, speculation has gotten out of hand, and that is one reason for record gas prices.”

Privately, both lawmakers and lobbyists agree that the bill is one piece in a complicated Congressional chess game involving offshore drilling, the nation’s federally owned oil reserves and the November election.

A bill supported by Senate Republicans, led by Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, would also increase funds for regulators and require them to gather more information about trading activity.

But it focuses primarily on promoting deep-sea exploration and drilling, oil shale exploration and electric vehicle research.

“No reputable economist thinks speculators alone are the reason for the spike in gas prices,” Mr. McConnell said Thursday.

A focus in Congressional hearings on oil market speculation is the sharp increase in the amount of money that pension funds, endowments and other institutional investors have steered into the commodity markets.

Some of that money — hundreds of billions of dollars, by some estimates — has poured in through trades designed to hedge the obligations of funds that track popular commodity indexes.

That is a form of trading that some critics say should be banished from the commodity futures market entirely. The Reid bill does not do that, but does require that such index-hedging trades be subject to tighter speculative limits.

The difficulties of distinguishing among financial and commercial hedgers would be enormous, several critics of the legislation said. A farmer trying to hedge against a fertilizer price increase, for example, may rely on a natural gas futures contract — but, under these rules, he would be considered a speculator.

And so would the financial institutions trying to facilitate his trading, either on public exchanges or through private transactions in the “over the counter” swaps market.

In an open letter to Congress Thursday, Robert G. Pickel, chief executive of the swaps industry’s trade association, argued that the Reid proposal “could actually make things far worse” for consumers by impairing the effectiveness of the hedging markets.

Of concern to the swaps dealers, Mr. Pickel noted, is a provision in the bill that would allow commodity regulators to order companies to liquidate their swaps transactions if it concludes that a major market disturbance has occurred.

In effect, he said, this would require companies “to break their privately negotiated risk management contracts,” even if the swap complied with trading limits that were in place when it was originally negotiated.

The Futures Industry Association, which represents futures brokers and derivatives exchanges in more than 20 countries, has also expressed its opposition to the bill, saying it “would amount to liquidity-robbing, regulatory overkill.”

The bill also would limit the ability of investors in the United States to trade directly on foreign futures exchanges. Supporters say that most of those provisions codify information-sharing arrangements that regulators have already negotiated with their foreign counterparts. But some exchange officials have warned that foreign countries could retaliate by limiting the international expansion of exchanges based in the United States.

Professor James Angel at Georgetown, a financial markets specialist who testified at one of the many hearings examining the energy markets, had a more temperate view of the Reid bill.

“It’s a not-too-bad response,” he said, noting that it gives regulators enough discretion to avoid some of the most devastating consequences. “How it is implemented will be the test.”

According to several legislative aides, no vote is likely on the legislation until Tuesday, giving ample time for negotiation across the aisle and with sponsors of similar proposals in the House.

A speedy conclusion to the debate would be welcome in the markets, some commodity analysts said. Researchers at Barclays Capital, in their weekly oil market review, complained that “lawmakers are no longer largely neutral bystanders to the oil market but have instead become a source of uncertainty.”
566 2008-07-18 But the Pentagon did little to address the issue until a Green Beret, Staff Sgt. Ryan D. Maseth, was electrocuted in January while showering. His death, caused by poor electrical grounding, drew the attention of lawmakers and Pentagon leaders after his family pushed for answers. Congress and the Pentagon’s inspector general have begun investigations, and this month senior Army officials ordered electrical inspections of all buildings in Iraq maintained by KBR.

“We consider this to be a very serious issue,” Chris Isleib, a Pentagon spokesman, said Thursday in an e-mail message, while declining to comment on the findings in the Army documents.

Heather Browne, a KBR spokeswoman, would not comment about a company safety study or the reports of electrical fires or shocks, but she said KBR had found no evidence of a link between its work and the electrocutions. She added, “KBR’s commitment to the safety of all employees and those the company serves remains unwavering.”

In public statements, Pentagon officials have not addressed the scope of the hazards, instead mostly focusing on the circumstances surrounding the death of Sergeant Maseth, who lived near Pittsburgh.

But the internal documents, including dozens of memos, e-mail messages and reports from the Army, the Defense Contract Management Agency and other agencies, show that electrical problems were widely recognized as a major safety threat among Pentagon contracting experts. It is impossible to determine the exact number of the resulting deaths and injuries because no single document tallies them up. (The records were compiled for Congressional and Pentagon investigators and obtained independently by The Times.)

The 2007 safety survey was ordered by the top official in Iraq for the Defense Contract Management Agency, which oversees contractors, after the October 2006 electrical fire that killed two soldiers near Tikrit. Paul Dickinson, a Pentagon safety specialist who wrote the report, confirmed its findings, but did not elaborate.

Senior Pentagon officials appear not to have responded to the survey until this May, after Congressional investigators had begun to ask questions. Then they argued that its findings were irrelevant to Sergeant Maseth’s electrocution.

In a memo dated May 26, 2008, a top official of the Defense Contract Management Agency stated that “there is no direct or causal connection” between the problems identified in the survey and those at the Baghdad compound where Sergeant Maseth died.

But in a sworn statement, apparently prepared for an investigation of Sergeant Maseth’s death by the Army’s Criminal Investigative Division, a Pentagon contracting official described how both military and KBR officials were aware of the growing danger from poor electrical work.

In the statement, Ingrid Harrison, an official with the Pentagon’s contracting management agency, disclosed that an electrical fire caused by poor wiring in a nearby building two weeks before Sergeant Maseth’s death had endangered two other soldiers.

“The soldiers were lucky because the one window that they could reach did not have bars on it, or there could have been two other fatalities,” Ms. Harrison said in the statement. She said that after Sergeant Maseth died, a more senior Pentagon contracting official in Baghdad denied knowing about the fire, but she asserted that “it was thoroughly discussed” during internal meetings.

Ms. Harrison added that KBR officials also knew of widespread electrical problems at the Radwaniya Palace Complex, near Baghdad’s airport, where Sergeant Maseth died. “KBR has been at R.P.C. for over four years and was fully aware of the safety hazards, violations and concerns regarding the soldiers’ housing,” she said in the statement. She added that the contractor “chose to ignore the known unsafe conditions.”

Ms. Harrison did not respond to a request for comment.

In another internal document written after Sergeant Maseth’s death, a senior Army officer in Baghdad warned that soldiers had to be moved immediately from several buildings because of electrical risks. In a memo asking for emergency repairs at three buildings, the official warned of a “clear and present danger,” adding, “Exposed wiring, ungrounded distribution panels and inappropriate lighting fixtures render these facilities uninhabitable and unsafe.”

The memo added that “over the course of several months, electrical fires and shorts have compounded these unsafe conditions.”

Since the United States invaded Iraq in 2003, tens of thousands of American troops have been housed in Iraqi buildings that date from the Saddam Hussein era. KBR and other contractors have been paid millions of dollars to repair and upgrade the buildings, including their electrical systems. KBR officials say they handle the maintenance for 4,000 structures and an additional 35,000 containers used as housing in the war zone.

The reports of shoddy electrical work have raised new questions about the Bush administration’s heavy reliance on contractors in Iraq, particularly because they come after other high-profile disputes involving KBR. They include accusations of overbilling, providing unsafe water to soldiers and failing to protect female employees who were sexually assaulted.

Officials say the administration contracted out so much work in Iraq that companies like KBR were simply overwhelmed by the scale of the operations. Some of the electrical work, for example, was turned over to subcontractors, some of which hired unskilled Iraqis who were paid only a few dollars a day.

Government officials responsible for contract oversight, meanwhile, were also unable to keep up, so that unsafe electrical work was not challenged by government auditors.

Several electricians who worked for KBR have said previously in interviews that they repeatedly warned KBR managers and Pentagon and military officials about unsafe electrical work. They said that supervisors had ignored their concerns or, in some cases, lacked the training to understand the problems.

The Army documents cite a number of recent safety threats. One report showed that during a four-day period in late February, soldiers at a Baghdad compound reported being shocked while taking showers in different buildings. The circumstances appear similar to those that led to Sergeant Maseth’s death.

Another entry from early March stated that an entire house used by American troops was electrically charged, making it unlivable.

Since the Pentagon reports were compiled, more episodes linked to electrical problems have occurred. In late June, for example, an electrical fire at a Marine base in Falluja destroyed 10 buildings, forcing marines there to ask for donations from home to replace their personal belongings.

On July 5, Sgt. First Class Anthony Lynn Woodham of the Arkansas National Guard died at his base in Tallil, Iraq. Initial reports blamed electrocution, but his death is being investigated because of conflicting information, according to his wife, Crystal Woodham, and a spokesman for the Arkansas National Guard.
567 2008-07-18 HARTFORD (AP) — Second-quarter profit rose 11 percent at the conglomerate United Technologies on brisk business at Otis elevator and strong orders for its Carrier air-conditioners.

The company, whose products are as diverse as jet engines and ventilation systems, also raised its full-year outlook for revenue and per-share earnings, sending shares up nearly 6 percent.

New orders for heating, ventilating and air-conditioning equipment grew by double digits globally for offices and other nonresidential buildings, said Louis Chênevert, the company’s president and chief executive.

Revenue rose in all segments, with Otis reporting $3.4 billion, up by 19 percent, and Carrier posting $4.35 billion, up by more than 7 percent, though profit slipped. Profit at Sikorsky helicopters surged 28 percent.

But sharply higher prices for oil and raw materials have begun to slow demand in some of the company’s other markets, like aircraft parts.

After strong orders through the early months of 2008, orders slowed for spare parts at its jet engine manufacturer, Pratt & Whitney, and for the aerospace manufacturer Hamilton Sundstrand in the second quarter, Mr. Chênevert said.
568 2008-07-18 GRAND HAVEN, Mich — For months, Senator John McCain and other Republicans have been criticizing Senator Barack Obama for not having visited Iraq in a long time, even running a daily tally that is now well past 900 days.

But now that Mr. Obama is about to travel there and elsewhere in the region, Republicans seem unable to decide whether that is worthy of praise or an opportunity for payback for Mr. Obama’s unrelenting criticism of their own policy.

“I’m pleased that he is going to Iraq for only the second time and Afghanistan for the first time,” Mr. McCain, who last visited the region in March, told reporters aboard his campaign bus on Thursday in Kansas City, Mo. “If he was so concerned about Afghanistan and the threat there and the need to send troops, don’t you think he should have gone there?”

Earlier in the day, Mr. McCain’s communications director, Jill Hazelbaker, had dismissed Mr. Obama’s trip as the “first-of-its-kind campaign rally overseas.” But Mr. McCain initially rejected that “damned if you do, damned it you don’t” approach and sought a more nuanced position.

“I can only give you my opinion, and I will talk to her,” Mr. McCain said. “The fact is that I’m glad he is going to Iraq. I am glad he is going to Afghanistan. It’s long, long overdue if you want to lead this nation.”

Mr. Obama’s trip is expected to begin in the next few days, with an itinerary that includes Iraq, Afghanistan and Israel. He is also planning to meet with Palestinian leaders in the West Bank and make a stopover in Europe.
569 2008-07-18 Drinkers of Coca-Cola can expect to pay more starting this fall after Coca-Cola Enterprises, the company’s biggest bottler, said Thursday that it would raise prices.

Problems at the bottler also hurt the Coca-Cola Company’s bottom line, because it owns about 35 percent of that business. Coke said Thursday that its profit fell 23 percent in the second quarter, when it took a charge because of the bottler’s woes.

Coca-Cola Enterprises, which has about 80 percent of the United States market for Coke, said it would raise prices after Labor Day because of higher commodity costs and declining American soda sales. It said prices would go up by a percentage in the mid-single digit to high-single digit range. Bottlers set prices for retailers like grocery stores.

At the Coca-Cola Company, results were again led by the international operations.

The company managed to keep United States sales volume steady in the second quarter with help from Glacéau’s Vitaminwater, which it bought for $4.1 billion last June. International sales rose 5 percent despite natural disasters in Asia and labor strikes in Europe.

“I know what is top of mind for all of you — the current macroeconomic environment and its impact on our results,” said Coke’s chief executive, Muhtar Kent, who succeeded E. Neville Isdell on July 1. “It is clear we will face some challenges around the globe.”

The company, based in Atlanta, earned $1.42 billion, or 61 cents a share, down from $1.85 billion, or 80 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The results included a charge of 40 cents a share related to Coca-Cola Enterprises. Excluding one-time items, the figure came to $1.01 a share. Revenue rose 17 percent, to $9.05 billion, from $7.73 billion.
570 2008-07-18 Joseph F. McCrindle, an art collector who amassed a trove of old master drawings and who founded and edited the Transatlantic Review to showcase young writers, died July 11 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85.

His death was confirmed by John Rowe, vice president of the Joseph F. McCrindle Foundation, a philanthropic organization.

In style and upbringing, Mr. McCrindle harked back to the philanthropists who endowed the city’s cultural institutions and sometimes ran them as well. He grew up in a Fifth Avenue mansion designed by Stanford White and as a boy spent his allowance on rare books at auctions.

His formidable mother, Odette Feder, was a wealthy socialite who married Maj. J. Ronald McCrindle, a flying ace who fought with Allenby in Mesopotamia during World War I. In 1928 she abruptly divorced the major, married Count Guy du Bourg de Bozas, relocated to Paris and the south of France and left Joe to be raised by her parents. They indulged him with summer trips to Europe on the family yacht, where he acquired foreign languages and a taste for art.

Mr. McCrindle attended St. Paul’s School in Manhattan. After graduating from Harvard University in 1944, he served with the Office of Strategic Services in London as a translator, reaching the rank of first lieutenant. Later he earned a law degree at Yale, graduating with the Class of 1948.
571 2008-07-18 Then the economics went awry. Feed is now more than half the total cost of raising catfish, compared with a third of the cost of beef and pork production, according to a Mississippi State analysis. That makes catfish more vulnerable. But if the commodities continue to rocket up — and some analysts believe they will — other industries will fall victim as well.

Keith King, the president of Dillard & Company, calculates that for every dollar the company spends raising its fish, it gets back only 75 cents when they go to market.

“What’s happening to this industry is sad, but being sentimental won’t pay the light bill,” Mr. King said.

Dillard and other growers take their fish, still squirming, to Consolidated Catfish Producers in the hamlet of Isola, where workers run the machinery that slices them into filets. With fewer fish coming in, Consolidated Catfish is resorting to layoffs.

One hundred employees were let go in the last month, and an additional 200 will be cut soon. President Dick Stevens predicts that by the end of the year the company will have jobs for only 450, about half the number at its peak. That might not be enough to keep the plant open.

“The industry is going to implode,” Mr. Stevens said. He blamed the government’s ethanol mandates for making fuel compete with food for the harvest of the nation’s farmland. “Politicians were in a rush to do something, and it became a terrible snowball.”

Across the highway, one of the local feed mills, Producers Feed Company, has already shut down. The ripple effects have begun: between the grain mill and the fish plant was Peter Bo’s Restaurant, locally celebrated for, naturally, its catfish. Hanging on the door is a “for rent” sign.

Some catfish producers recently switched to a feed based on gluten, a cheaper derivative of corn, to reduce their costs. But corn gluten transportation and prices were particularly hard hit by the Midwest floods.

“As sick as we were over what happened to the Iowa farmers, we were also sick over what was going to happen to us,” Mr. Stevens said.

It is a feeling echoed by others who depend on corn and soybeans.

In the spring, hog farmers thought they were past the worst. Export sales to China were strong. Corn appeared to level off. Some farmers sought an edge by reformulating pigs’ diets and reducing the weight at which they sent the animals to the packer.

“And then corn goes up another buck, and you’re back where you were,” said Dave Uttecht, a producer in Alpena, S.D., who raises 70,000 pigs a year.

“I’m a farmer. I’m used to peaks and valleys.” Mr. Uttecht said. “But this is like falling into the Grand Canyon.”

Smaller herds will eventually put a floor under hog prices, and there is already some liquidation going on. But in the short term, sending more hogs to market will increase the supply of pork and push prices down further. Every farmer is hoping his colleagues will liquidate first.

“We’re all waiting for someone else to blink,” Mr. Uttecht said.

Hog farmers at least have the advantage that bacon and pork chops are solidly rooted in American cuisine, and if you want either there is no replacement.

In this and many other ways, catfish farmers are not so lucky.

Catfish started out as a local delicacy, widely celebrated in the lore of the Deep South. Mark Twain saluted it in “Life on the Mississippi.” A character in Eudora Welty’s story “The Wide Net” says after stuffing himself, “There ain’t a thing better.”

Mr. Dillard, whose operation at its peak was one of the country’s five biggest catfish companies, came to the delta 50 years ago to farm cotton. He put in some catfish ponds a decade later almost on a whim. “I liked the way they tasted,” he said. “Fried.”

Other farmers had the same idea. At first the ponds were put on soil too dry for cotton. When they proved a better crop, they took over cotton ground, too. For a long time, everyone made money.

In 2005, according to the Agriculture Department, catfish farming was a $462 million industry, far exceeding any other American farm-raised fish. The industry employed more than 10,000 people at its peak, almost all in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Arkansas.

Times were too good, perhaps. In retrospect, the name probably should have been changed. Chilean sea bass would not have eclipsed the catfish if it were still known as the Patagonian toothfish, nor would orange roughy have become so esteemed as the slimehead.

“We didn’t focus on the market or on the product,” said Mr. Stevens, the processing factory president. “We’re the first culprits here.”

The industry’s decline accelerated when producers from Vietnam and China flooded the domestic market, putting a ceiling on prices.

Efforts by American producers to portray the imports as unclean and potentially unsafe did not work. The campaign did, however, achieve a measure of vindication last summer when the Food and Drug Administration announced broader import controls on Chinese seafood, including catfish, saying tests had shown the fish were contaminated with antimicrobial agents.

Rising feed prices were the final straw for Dillard & Company, which decided to close last January. Eighty of its 10- to 20-acre pools are empty already. An additional 170 will follow as soon as their fish are big enough to sell.

“It’s easy. You just pull the plug,” Mr. King said, surveying a pool that was nearly dry. Nearby, half a dozen men were running their nets through a pond, then hoisting the last of its catfish onto a truck.

“I’ve been doing this for 23 years,” said one of the workers, Craig Morgan. “I don’t know what I’ll do now. And there are a bunch of me’s out there.”

It is unclear what can replace catfish as easily as catfish replaced cotton. Attempts to make a tourist industry out of the fact that the delta was the birthplace of the blues are still embryonic.

“If we don’t do something, there will be nothing but tumbleweed here,” Jimmy Donahoo, a former catfish farmer, said. He, like others in the industry, thinks the producers should be supported by government subsidies, just like other farmers.

At Dillard & Company, they are not waiting for help.

“You focus your resources where you can maximize your profits,” Mr. King said. All the empty ponds will be planted with soybeans and corn, those two commodities for which there seems boundless appetite.
572 2008-07-18 Mr. Talansky’s testimony in May was taken as an early deposition because state prosecutors said they feared that he would leave Israel and not come back in the event of a trial.

It is still unclear whether Mr. Talansky could become a suspect in the case. He told the packed courtroom on Thursday that he had been told there would be no formal decision on his status until the investigation was over.

Mr. Olmert’s lawyers, however, quoted from what they said was a summary of a meeting between the prosecution and Mr. Talansky suggesting the existence of an understanding that if he provided material against Mr. Olmert, he would not be charged.

One of the lawyers, Nevot Tel-Tzur, said during a break in the hearing that “a very worrying picture” had emerged of a witness who had a secret pact with the prosecution.

In comparison with Mr. Talansky’s sensational testimony in May, however, the first day of what is expected to be up to five days of cross-examination was laborious and meandering.

The defense lawyers tried to present Mr. Talansky as an untrustworthy character with a faulty memory and a tendency to contradict himself. They said that pressure during police questioning led Mr. Talansky to make things up; he earlier complained that the police had used some bullying tactics.

Mr. Talansky acknowledged that he perhaps got some details wrong, but he denied telling untruths. “I don’t believe that I invented stories,” he said.

The lawyers brought up details of several court cases involving Mr. Talansky in the United States, including one in which he is being sued by a dentist in his 80s who accuses Mr. Talansky of assaulting him during a dispute over money. Mr. Talansky denied having assaulted the dentist, saying it was the dentist who hit him with a fishing rod.

The lawyers also suggested that Mr. Talansky might be in breach of two American laws: the New York Executive Law, which requires some fund-raisers to register and obtain a license, and the Foreign Agents Registration Act regulating the activities of Americans representing foreign governments or their officials for political purposes.

Mr. Talansky said he had never heard of the first law. His American counsel, Neal Sher, said outside the courtroom that the Israeli lawyers’ suggestion that Mr. Talansky had violated the second, “a serious federal law,” was “way out of line.” Mr. Sher said that the Foreign Agents Registration Act pertained to individuals acting at the request of foreign governments with the purpose of influencing American policy, and that Mr. Talansky did not come close to that.

Eli Zohar, who leads Mr. Olmert’s legal team, declared that the first day of the cross-examination had “achieved all its goals.”

Jacques Chen, the lawyer who represents Mr. Talansky, played down the day’s events. “We’ve heard seven hours of stories from across the ocean,” he said. “I have to say it was quite boring.”
573 2008-07-18 Microsoft on Thursday reported mixed financial results that drove the company’s stock down almost 5 percent in after-hours trading. In a rare shortfall, the company just missed the forecasts of Wall Street analysts, which had been 47 cents a share according to First Call, the financial research service.

The company’s profits rose for the quarter based on strong PC sales in developing markets and rising demand from corporate customers. The company reported a net profit of $4.3 billion, or 46 cents a share, in its fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30, versus a profit of $3.04 billion, or 31 cents, in the same period a year ago.

For 2008, the company surpassed $60 billion in revenue for the first time. Microsoft said that it had revenue of $60.42 billion in fiscal 2008, an increase of 18 percent over the previous year.

Analysts said the company’s business appeared sound, but that it appeared to have lost control of expenses during the quarter.

“Where did they spend all this money?” said Brendan Barnicle, a financial analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Ore. Sales and marketing, cost of revenue and research and development were all above what analysts had predicted, he said. “This was significantly higher than people expected.”
574 2008-07-18 BRUSSELS (AP) — European Union regulators have expanded their antitrust case against Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, claiming that it has deliberately squeezed a rival, Advanced Micro Devices, out of the chip market.

The European Commission said on Thursday that it had added three new charges against Intel, and warned that it might order Intel to change its behavior under threat of large fines that could total 10 percent of its global revenue.

An Intel spokesman, Chuck Mulloy, said these charges did not reflect any major change to the first set of charges sent in July 2007. Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has insisted its behavior is lawful.

Advanced Micro Devices could not immediately be reached for comment.

The European regulators say Intel has given a major personal computer retailer, Media Markt of Germany, substantial rebates in return for its selling only Intel-based computers.

It said Intel also paid a manufacturer to delay an A.M.D. range of x86 central processing units, or C.P.U.’s, and gave rebates to the same company in return for buying all its laptop C.P.U.’s from Intel.

Intel has eight weeks to respond and can seek a hearing to present its defense to European regulators.
575 2008-07-18 “The guys this morning had it the worst. Those conditions were unbelievable. Then the rain stopped, and it was easier this afternoon, for sure. I was fortunate today. You’ve just got to get it done, some way, no matter what the conditions.”

The conditions were more Scottish than English, complete with a norland wind that sliced the day in two, creating two tournaments. The morning starters were battered by 30-mile-per-hour gusts and sheets of rain that soaked through rain suits and numbed fingers, hands and feet. The stroke average for those who finished play before noon was 77.81. For those who finished later, it was 74.49.

More inclement weather is expected on Friday and Saturday.

Even with all the variables, there was a familiarity to the first day. Eight previous Opens have been contested at Birkdale, and each was won by an Australian or an American. In this Open, the leaders after one round are an American, an Australian and an Irishman. They led by a stroke over two more Australians, Adam Scott and Greg Norman, and the veteran American Bart Bryant. Scott bogeyed two of the last three holes.

Norman’s presence among the top six players is more than surprising, given that he played little golf going into the event. The trip is doubling as his honeymoon with his new wife, Chris Evert.

“I would be surprised if he kept this up considering how much he plays golf,” Evert said. “We play tennis one hour a day. For Greg to keep this up might be too much to expect. He had no expectations today. He was relaxed, just played golf and played great.”

That might have been the key to survival on the dreadful day. Those who were not relaxed, who tried to force things, who allowed the weather to get inside their head, were not long for the championship. Sandy Lyle, the 1985 Open champion, walked off after 10 holes. Rich Beem, the winner of the 2002 P.G.A. Championship, did the same. Pat Perez, who shot 82, is ready to leave. Jerry Kelly, who shot 83, is one step ahead of him.

When the day began at 6:30 a.m. with the Australian Craig Parry hitting the first tee shot, players were in survival mode, thinking more about breaking 80 than breaking par. Parry finished in 4 hours 45 minutes with a round of 77 that was actually a stroke lower than the average morning score.

“It was really tough,” Parry said. “My 3-wood was going about 180 yards into the wind. You could probably putt it further than that.”

Phil Mickelson, the world’s second-ranked player, struggled to a 79 that included a triple bogey with a lost ball at the sixth hole.

Perez blasted the golf course setup, calling it unfair.

“I can’t wait to go home,” he said. “I’ll be out tomorrow night. It’s not enjoyable in the least. You’ve got three holes you cannot get to in two. It’s so stupid. You’ve got a 430-yard hole that you cannot get to with a driver and 3-wood.”

Staying power under these weather conditions is predicated on patience, mental toughness, the ability to work the golf ball, keeping it low and curving it both ways, and the serenity to shrug off bogeys.

Can Mediate thrive here armed only with a short game that produced the score despite his hitting just 3 greens and needing just 21 putts? Can he deal with the unique feeling of leading the world’s oldest golf championship?

“I don’t think there’s a situation that I can be in other than on that Monday against Tiger to feel the feelings that I had,” Mediate said. “I want a chance to go in and see if I can handle it all again and maybe do one better. I actually look forward to seeing what happens.”

McDowell, though, had tasted the Open lead once before in his four appearances, shooting a 66 in the first round two years ago at Hoylake before sliding into a tie for 61st after a final-round 79. He showed his mastery of the iron game at Birkdale by hitting 13 greens. He took 30 putts in his round.

“Maybe I have a little more belief in my game now than I did at Hoylake,” said McDowell, who has won twice this year on the PGA European Tour. “We got very lucky with the draw. We didn’t have the rain to contend with like the boys in the morning.”

He will need more of the same to succeed here.
576 2008-07-18 It would cost $80,000 for four seat licenses and $28,000 a year to buy the tickets in the field level behind the Giants’ bench, which will become an elite Coach’s Club in the new stadium.

“For people like me, these tickets are part of my family heritage,” said one fan with seats in that section, who did not want to be named for fear of possible retribution by the Giants. “And because of my parents’ efforts, we have excellent seats, so it’s a kick in the stomach to be presented with a plan like this that we can’t afford.”

John Mara, the team’s president and co-owner, said fans had written and called him, some unhappy about the seat licenses. One sentiment has been that his late father, Wellington, would never have sold them.

“Believe me, I’ve felt that, but my father wasn’t faced with this kind of debt on a new building,” Mara said on a conference call with reporters.

The team is giving existing season-ticket holders four preferences for where they wish to be in the new stadium, including where they now sit. Mara knows that people who cannot afford the more expensive licenses will move to cheaper perches or leave entirely.

“If that happens, it will make me sad, but I think we’ve provided enough options for people who want to stay there,” Mara said.

The advent of seat licenses will also usher in higher ticket prices. Tickets for Giants’ home games next season range from $85 to $115 a game. In 2010, they will start at $85 (for the upper level seats above the end zones), increase to $95, $105, $120, $140 and $160, and then make the leap to $400 and $500 each for the 7,085 mezzanine club seats.

The Coach’s Club, with its $700-a-game seats, will feature a restaurant (with free food), bars (the alcohol is not gratis) and TV sets in an area behind the seats. It will also have a glassed-off area where fans will be able to watch reporters grill players and coaches after games.

Meanwhile, the Jets have been assessing the results of a fan survey about licenses. A spokesman, Bruce Speight, said the team would announce its plan in late August.

The Giants’ plan, the 13th seat license plan offered by an N.F.L. team since 1993, differs widely from one advanced recently by the Dallas Cowboys for their new stadium that is to open in 2009. The Cowboys are selling licenses for 80 percent of the stadium’s seats, mostly for $2,000 to $5,000 each, but club-seat licenses are going for $16,000 to $150,000 each.

Giants season-ticket holders will receive brochures and applications starting later this month. Mara said no seat assignments would be completed and no licenses sold until every season-ticket holder had gotten the information.
577 2008-07-18 The Clinton Foundation announced Thursday that it had brokered an agreement among several drug makers that it hoped would ensure a steady supply of a crucial malaria medicine at reasonable prices for the world’s poor.

The charity, created by former President Bill Clinton, is trying to control spikes in the price of artemisinin, a derivative of the sweet wormwood plant that Chinese scientists turned into the latest miracle drug against malaria.

In 2004, when international donors agreed to pay for artemisinin-based drug cocktails, the price of the raw material soared. In a year, it more than quadrupled, to about $500 per pound from about $115 per pound. (At the time, pharmaceutical executives in China blamed farmers for hoarding the supply.)

The Swiss pharmaceutical maker Novartis, then the only company with an artemisinin-based drug approved by the World Health Organization, absorbed the losses, and makers of generic drugs were scared away from the field.

But by 2006, after farmers rushed to plant more sweet wormwood and pickers gathered it in the wild, the price had plummeted to about $70 a pound. It has remained in that range since.
578 2008-07-18 Perhaps it’s an illusion fostered by the fenced-off reconstruction work in Washington Square Park, but it seems as though the Washington Square Music Festival is shoehorned into a smaller section of the park every summer. The festival, in its 50th year, has done its own shrinking as well. Once a series of orchestra concerts, it is now a handful of chamber music programs, framed by folk and jazz concerts, with ensembles amplified to overcome the ambient noise of the park and the not-so-distant rumble of traffic.

But the festival has an audience, a larger one than its tiny slice of the park can accommodate. On Tuesday evening a reasonably large crowd watched from outside the metal barriers that set off the seating area, and as soon as a seat emptied, someone came in to fill it. In terms of age and race, you could hardly ask for a more diverse audience.

The festival has also maintained a distinctly idiosyncratic programming personality and even magnified it, possibly as compensation for the dwindling ensemble. The Tuesday concert began with a charming if lightweight concerto for harp and strings by Georg Christoph Wagenseil, which put a spotlight on Susan Jolles’s graceful harp playing, then switched gears precipitately to a cello version of Massenet’s “Meditation” from “Thaïs,” accompanied by harp and strings. More typically a violin showpiece, the “Meditation” sings sweetly in the cello’s range, and Lutz Rath gave it a shapely reading.

Mr. Rath is also the festival’s music director and was therefore a master of ceremonies of sorts. He might reconsider his approach. It makes little sense, for example, to introduce a group of songs by Tchaikovsky and Borodin by saying that “the texts are so trivial that I’m embarrassed even to translate them for you.” Listeners can only wonder why, in that case, the ensemble is burdening us with these pieces, and pity the poor singer who must sing them as if they were the most important music ever written.

Stephanie Houtzeel, a mezzo-soprano with an appealingly creamy timbre, gave lovely, warm-toned readings of these works, but was at her best in a new score, Kevin Beavers’s “Wandlebury Ring.” This accessible, emotionally enveloping setting of a text by Andrew Sofer about an ancient British fort uses the tension between string textures and a sweetly melodic vocal line to evoke a receding childhood.

The accordionist William Schimmel was the soloist in the final group of works, which included uncredited variations on “Happy Birthday”; Mr. Schimmel’s variations on the pop standard “It Was a Very Good Year,” by Ervin Drake; and one of Mr. Schimmel’s amusing virtuoso pastiches, “Piano Concertos — Accordion Tangos.”
579 2008-07-18 BANGKOK — The leading Malaysian opposition figure, Anwar Ibrahim, said Thursday that his arrest on suspicion of sodomy might have set back one of the strongest challenges in the country’s history to the dominance of the longtime governing coalition.

Mr. Anwar, 60, denied the accusation, which was made last month by a 23-year-old male aide. A decade ago, when Mr. Anwar was the deputy prime minister, he was convicted of sodomy and corruption. He spent six years in prison before a court overturned the sodomy conviction.

Mr. Anwar has not been charged in the current case, but his arrest and detention threaten to add to political tensions that have grown since the governing coalition suffered the biggest losses in its history in an election in March.

In recent months, Mr. Anwar has led a political charge against the government, calling on legislators to defect to him and announcing that he will run for Parliament, which could position him to become prime minister.

“We will come to that,” he said when reporters in Kuala Lumpur asked about his political future after his arrest on Wednesday.
580 2008-07-18 Marathon (”MAR-i-thun” to locals) is unincorporated and has no zoning or building codes and no local governing body, save for the Chamber of Commerce and the municipal water department, Mr. Henthorne said.

Two Brewster County Sheriff’s deputies, paid through county taxes, live in and patrol the town. “We never lock our cars or our house,” Mr. Mangum said. “Everyone looks out for everyone."

Eight years ago, Marshall Oatman, a barge operator in Puget Sound, rented a three-bedroom adobe house with his father, uncle and younger brother during a motorcycle trip. Marathon, he said, “kind of just wrapped its arms around us,” adding: “It’s almost like you’re in Mexico. It’s just so outlandishly not contemporary.”

Six years later, he bought that house for $90,000, at the market’s peak. His father lives there full time, and Mr. Oatman returns to work on the place one week each month. After visiting in February, his brother Marty spent $59,000 for eight small lots, where he plans to build an “eco-friendly” house.

Mr. Henthorne jokes that the town is finally entering the 20th century. Until 2005, houses had no numbered addresses, only street names. Mail comes general delivery only, and residents must visit to the storefront post office, next to Shirley’s Burnt Biscuit Bakery. “The postmistress knows me. She gives me a hug,” Mr. Weigmann said.

The Weigmanns are typical of those who discover the town while passing through and then return to stay. They visited Marathon three times in the mid-1990s en route to Big Bend. In 1996, they bought a 1,500-square-foot adobe house with three bedrooms for $16,000. The price was not uncommon then, though Mr. Weigmann described this house’s original condition as “crummy and dilapidated,” with seven layers of linoleum and wood paneling. They have since spent $30,000 on renovations.

The town’s lack of industry — oil, cattle ranching and a Fluorspar plant, which made products like aluminum and refrigerants from the mineral calcium fluoride are gone — and its remoteness (the nearest airport, Midland- Odessa, is 170 miles away), have protected the town from speculators. But its location is also part of the draw.

Marathon, about 4,000 feet above sea level, has more than 300 days of sunshine a year, and relatively mild weather for Texas (the low 90s in summer, and 60 degrees some winter days).

Then there are the 360-degree mountain views.

“We have Montana cowboys who move down here and tell us it reminds them of home,” Mr. Henthorne said, adding that more second-home owners come from other states — including Vermont, Washington, Minnesota and California — than from Texas itself.

Marathon is bisected by railroad tracks that once divided the white side of town, the north, from the Mexican south side. New residents tend to choose homes based more on the view than on geography, Mr. Henthorne said, but the south side can be less expensive and is more racially diverse.

While Marathon offers many group activities — the Los Jaks Motorcycle Club, yoga classes, the annual cabrito (roast goat) cook-off — Ms. Spires identified the two main attractions. “There’s the sunrise,” she said, pointing to the Glass Mountains to the northeast, “and the sunset,” pointing to the Del Norte Mountains to the southwest.

Steven Jones, a musical theater producer from Dallas, said, “I don’t think you can come out to Marathon and see these mountains and this sky and question the existence of God.” He acknowledged that mountain gazing might not satisfy everyone, but added, “If you have to ask what there is to do, you don’t get it.”

Many gather for drinks at the cafes or the White Buffalo bar at the Gage Hotel, which draws visitors and some locals to its saltwater pool, Desert Moon Spa and Gage Gardens.

It’s easy to find a house for less than $100,000. There is no city tax, but residents pay standard county taxes. The mild summers, by Texas standards, and warm winters allow for year-round getaways.

Marathon is far from everything, including medical care. A health clinic with a doctor and a nurse is open on Mondays and Thursdays, but the nearest major hospital is 32 miles away in Alpine, the county seat, which also has the closest shopping. The town can be exceedingly dry and dusty.

Marathon has only single-family homes, including adobe houses from the 1920s, wood-framed houses, 1950s ranch houses and the occasional manufactured house. Some houses are dilapidated; others have been fully renovated. Houses without views tend to remain on the market. Those who found Marathon before the real estate boom in the last five years or so, according to Mr. Henthorne, could buy 50-foot-by-140-foot city lots for as little as $200 and houses for well under $30,000. These days, the average lot sells for $7,500, and prices for houses have easily tripled.

Housing inventory is limited; it would be hard to find a place considered upscale. Mr. Jones spent two years searching for the right house, and instead bought two of the small city lots for $3,000. Last year, he bought another lot in Alta Vista, the closest thing Marathon has to a subdivision, with 10 five-acre lots that sold for record amounts, between $35,750 and $52,000.

POPULATION The 2000 census lists it as 455, though residents say 800 is more accurate, with perhaps 25 percent of those being part-time residents.

WHERE Southwest Texas, 170 miles southwest of Midland and 250 miles southeast of El Paso.

WHO’S BUYING Lovers of the outdoors, artistic types and the self-described “laid back” crowd from around the country.

WHILE YOU ARE LOOKING Eve’s Garden Organic Bed and Breakfast (Avenue C and North Third Street, 432-386-4165, www.evesgarden.org) offers five rooms made of papercrete (mortar and recycled paper) at $155 to $195. Some of the food served there is grown on site.
581 2008-07-18 PARIS — The Bush administration is considering establishing an American diplomatic presence in Iran for the first time since relations were severed during the 444-day occupation of the American Embassy in Tehran nearly three decades ago, European and American officials said on Thursday.

The idea would be to establish a so-called interests section, rather than a fully staffed embassy, with American diplomats who could issue visas to Iranians seeking to visit the United States. But the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules, cautioned that the idea had not been approved by the White House and could be delayed or blocked by opposition within the administration.

The proposal comes as the White House is adopting new tactics in dealing with Iran. With six months left in office, Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appear to be looking for new ways to reach out to the Iranian people as the administration tries to bring a peaceful resolution to the impasse over Iran’s nuclear program.

On Saturday, William J. Burns, the State Department’s third-ranking official, is to arrive in Geneva to participate, along with European Union nations, in talks with Iran aimed at persuading it to suspend uranium enrichment in exchange for economic and political incentives. The talks are a first. A department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said on Thursday that an interests section would not be discussed.

One senior European official said that Mr. Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, had told a number of his counterparts in Tokyo in recent weeks that Ms. Rice was committed to moving forward on the decision to put American diplomats in Tehran, but that the decision still faced opposition from conservatives.
582 2008-07-18 'A DEAD BUSINESS' Unable to cope with the rising cost of corn and soybean feed, which has nearly tripled in price in the last two years, catfish producers in the South are laying off workers and draining their ponds.      DISMAL QUARTER Merrill Ly...
583 2008-07-19 The former Lightning coach, winner of a Stanley Cup, may be headed to the Island....
584 2008-07-19 Senator John McCain sharply increased his spending in June as he ramped up his campaign and his presumed Democratic opponent became clear, according to new filings with the Federal Election Commission....
585 2008-07-19 It takes a lot to upstage Billy Joel at Shea Stadium.

But late on Friday night, nearly three hours into a career-spanning performance advertised as the last concert at Shea before it was to be demolished, Mr. Joel seemed happy to turn over the spotlight to Paul McCartney, who, he said, had just flown in from London.

The sold-out crowd of 55,000 people let out an ear-splitting roar as Mr. McCartney sang the Beatles’ “I Saw Her Standing There,” with Mr. Joel singing backup and, fitting his reputation as a self-deprecating rock star, looking on from his piano as if he were just another fan himself.

Before beginning “Let It Be,” Mr. McCartney alluded to the Beatles’ first concert at Shea in 1965, the year after the stadium opened.

“It’s so cool to be back here on the last night,” he said. “Been here a long time ago — we had a blast that night, and we’re having another one tonight.”

The concert was the second of two farewell shows by Mr. Joel, who told the crowd earlier in the night: “They’re tearing this house down. I want to thank you for letting me do the job and keep doing it — the best job in the world.”

Mr. McCartney wasn’t the only big guest. The country star Garth Brooks, dressed in a Mets T-shirt, sang Mr. Joel’s “Shameless,” which was a big hit for Mr. Brooks; Steven Tyler of Aerosmith performed “Walk This Way;” and Roger Daltrey of the Who — which played at Shea in 1982 — sang “My Generation” as Mr. Joel smashed a guitar on the center-field stage.
586 2008-07-19 Google, whose business has been lagging on the Russian Internet, stepped up its business there with the $140 million purchase of a Cyrillic online advertising business on Friday. The deal also included a cooperation agreement with Rambler, one of Russia’s top search engines, to use Google’s ad placement technology on its site. Google’s managing director for emerging markets, Mohammad Gawat, said the deal showed his company’s commitment to fast-growing advertising markets like Russia. Anna Lepetukhhina, an Internet analyst at Troika Dialog, a Moscow brokerage firm, said Internet ad revenue was growing 30 to 40 percent a year in Russia.
587 2008-07-19 Dana Quigley shot a tournament-record 10-under 62 to lead after the first round of the Champions Tour’s 3M Championship in Blaine, Minn. Gene Jones shot 64 and is two shots back.
588 2008-07-19 The Gramm resignation followed a series of sharp exchanges between the two parties about Mr. Obama’s long-anticipated trip abroad, including expected stops in Iraq and Afghanistan. In remarks in Michigan and in an advertisement made public Friday, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of neglecting his responsibilities and suggested that he was undermining the war effort.

When initially asked Thursday about Mr. Obama’s trip, Mr. McCain described it as long overdue but also welcome. But he began almost immediately to step up his criticism, a process that continued Friday, when he took part in a town-hall-style meeting at the General Motors Technical Center in suburban Detroit.

The session was intended to be about energy independence and an electric-powered car that General Motors is developing. But when Mr. McCain’s positions on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the possibility of conflict with Iran, were questioned, he responded by attacking Mr. Obama and seeking to justify his support for the Iraq war, which Mr. Obama says was unnecessary and fought on false pretenses.

“Every intelligence agency in the world believed Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction,” Mr. McCain replied, adding that the Hussein government had also violated human rights. He then quickly shifted to the need to persevere, saying he expected attacks by Al Qaeda in Iraq “so they can erode support for the al-Maliki government” during the American election campaign.

“We will come home with honor and victory, and it will be dictated by facts on the ground,” he continued. “We have succeeded, and I am confident we will win victory, and that is all contingent on our commitment to making sure we withdraw according to conditions on the ground.”

In a speech at a fund-raising luncheon in Detroit, Mr. McCain also implicitly criticized Mr. Obama in suggesting that his trip to Iraq — the schedule for which remains undisclosed, partly for security reasons — might be at hand.

“I am sure,” Mr. McCain added, “that Senator Obama is going to arrive in Baghdad in a much, much safer and secure environment than the one that he would have encountered before we started the surge.”

The McCain campaign also infuriated the Obama camp with the new advertisement, which accused Mr. Obama of “voting against funding our troops” and said he was abandoning his original positions on the war “to help himself become president.”

Bill Burton, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, described the ad as “patently misleading,” and campaign officials issued a phrase-by-phrase rebuttal.

Those salvos were preceded by an interview, published Friday in The Kansas City Star, in which Mr. McCain suggested that Mr. Obama might be a socialist. At a campaign event in Kansas City on Thursday, Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of having the “most extreme” voting record in the Senate. When The Star asked about the comment, he said Mr. Obama had taken positions “more to the left than the announced socialist in the U.S. Senate, Bernie Sanders of Vermont.”

The reporter then asked Mr. McCain if he thought Mr. Obama himself was a socialist. “I don’t know,” Mr. McCain answered. “All I know is his voting record, and that’s what people usually judge their elected representatives by.”
589 2008-07-19 If confirmed, Judge Pillay will also work with the 47-member Human Rights Council, a separate United Nations organization that has been trying to gain more control over the Office of the High Commissioner. The office and the council are based in Geneva. The high commissioner works with the rights council but reports directly to the United Nations secretary general.

By choosing an African, Mr. Ban could sway the agenda of the council, which during Ms. Arbour’s tenure accused the high commissioner’s office of having a “Western” and “white” agenda.

Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said he hoped that Judge Pillay would be a vocal and public presence, particularly given Mr. Ban’s penchant for working behind the scenes.

“One challenge for Judge Pillay will be to find a public voice that as a judge she was never called upon to have,” he said. “If both the secretary general and the high commissioner are using only private diplomacy, it’s as if they’re defending human rights with one arm tied behind their back.”

One of the earliest tests for Judge Pillay, he said, will be in Zimbabwe, where South Africa spearheaded opposition to block an American-led effort to impose Security Council sanctions on Zimbabwe’s president, Robert Mugabe.

The United States has privately raised concerns about Judge Pillay, including her strong support for reproductive rights, according to an official briefed by the Secretary General’s office. And some human rights activists questioned her management skills and whether she would bring sufficient energy and drive to the job.

Richard A. Grenell, a spokesman for Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to the United Nations, declined to comment on the nomination. “This appointment is the secretary general’s to make, and it is his decision alone,” he said.

Jessica Neuwirth, president of Equality Now, an international women’s rights organization that Judge Pillay co-founded, noted that Judge Pillay was a leading defense lawyer for apartheid-era political prisoners before she became a judge.

“In the last 12 years or so she’s been a judge, and a judge can’t speak out,” Ms. Neuwirth said. “I first knew her as an activist and a lawyer defending political prisoners.

“The significance of this appointment is, I think, that we have a human rights commissioner, maybe for the first time, who really comes from the front lines of the human rights movement,” she said.

Judge Pillay’s judicial experience could enable her to “blend a combination of quiet diplomacy and outspoken criticism,” Ms. Neuwirth said.

On the Rwanda tribunal, where she served for eight years, including four as the presiding judge, Judge Pillay was known for highlighting the gravity of gender-based crimes, said Richard Goldstone, a former prosecutor for the tribunal.

“The greatest achievement during that time of her career was the tremendous push she gave to the attention given to gender-based crime, systematic rape in particular,” Mr. Goldstone said.

“She is a person of great courage; I think she showed that in her anti-apartheid activities,” he added.

In an interview in The Hague before her nomination, Judge Pillay spoke of the importance of “drawing attention to gender crimes,” which she described as “a never-ending task.”

“We need not only women judges, but also women investigators to ensure that gender crimes are pursued,” she said. “Often the message is just to concentrate on the killings, because that is the most serious.”

Other candidates on Mr. Ban’s short list were Hina Jilani of Pakistan, whose government did not actively support her nomination, and Juan Méndez of Argentina.
590 2008-07-19 “Mitt and Ann Romney and Cindy and I have become good friends, and I’m appreciative every time I see Mitt on television on my behalf,” Mr. McCain told donors at the fund-raiser, according to a pool report of the event. “He does a better job for me than he did for himself, as a matter of fact.”

The McCain campaign has been notably tight-lipped about its vice-presidential selection process. But when asked about it, Mr. McCain has tended to say that he does not believe geographical considerations matter much in modern politics — which might make the Michigan argument weaker — and that he is most concerned about finding someone who shares his beliefs and who could take over as president if necessary.

Of course in politics the pragmatic often trumps the personal, and rivals have often wound up sharing tickets, from Lyndon B. Johnson signing on as John F. Kennedy’s running mate to George Bush signing on as Ronald Reagan’s (after memorably excoriating Mr. Reagan’s fiscal proposals as “voodoo economics”). But that was all in the pre-YouTube era, when political jabs had a much shorter shelf life.

But for Mr. McCain, who likes to surround himself with friends on the campaign trail, the personal is known to be an important factor. To that end, a social weekend Mr. McCain held for the Romneys and other supporters at his ranch near Sedona, Ariz., this spring was seen as an important turning point in their relationship, and a moment when the McCains and the Romneys seemed to decide that they could get along after all.

The former rivals spoke the lingua franca of men who are unsure of what to talk about — sports — and also talked about their families, politics and some of the funniest moments of the campaign, including the many gustatory delights of the Iowa State Fair, according to several people who were either at the gathering or were later told about it who were granted anonymity to describe the private get-together.

At one point, when Mr. McCain offered drinks to his guests, he went out of his way to offer Mr. Romney, a Mormon who does not drink alcohol, a coffee (apparently not realizing that Mormons eschew caffeine as well), said an aide who was told of the encounter later. But the aide said that the gesture seemed appreciated nonetheless.

Mr. McCain — who eagerly tallies the varieties of birds on his property, and likes to show visitors a hawk’s nest — also talked ornithology with Mr. Romney. Mr. Romney later joked at a fund-raiser for Mr. McCain that Mr. McCain had identified 57 varieties of birds on his ranch, but that after a weekend of grilling it was down to 47.

Several Republican consultants said privately that they doubted Mr. McCain — and especially some of his staff — had really overcome their dislike for Mr. Romney, and suggested that if Mr. Romney joined the ticket it would reflect calculation, not affection. Others were less sure of the state of play between the two men.

“They wouldn’t be the first running mates in the history of American politics to have said tough things about each other,” said Dan Schnur, who was Mr. McCain’s communications director in 2000. “The difference here is that John McCain has always been a very visceral politician, very motivated and animated by his likes and dislikes.”

Mr. Schnur said that Mr. McCain’s recent teasing of Mr. Romney suggested some kind of thaw. “John McCain doesn’t insult you if he doesn’t like you,” he said.

Mike Murphy, a political consultant who has worked for both Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney, said that he thought both men would be able to get along, and forgive things said in the heat of battle.

“McCain is like a character in a John Wayne movie,” he said. “His best friend is often the guy he just had a bar brawl with — as long as he won.”

Recently, on the back of the McCain campaign bus — a similar setting to the bus where Mr. McCain and his aides once watched, with apparent relish, television news coverage of a reporter challenging Mr. Romney’s honesty during the South Carolina primary — Mr. McCain said that he and Mr. Romney had truly buried the hatchet.

“You know, I’ve seen other primaries,” Mr. McCain said on a ride from West Virginia to Ohio. “And they’ve been much more spirited, and sometimes much rougher, than ours was.”

But the primary clashes between the two reflected how Mr. Romney and Mr. McCain often fought bitterly over issues:

¶On immigration, Mr. Romney derided Mr. McCain’s failed immigration bill as amnesty, and said that all illegal immigrants should be sent back to their home countries before they are allowed to apply for citizenship; Mr. McCain said that they should be forced to pay a fine and learn English, but should be allowed to stay in the United States.

¶On the environment, Mr. Romney scorned Mr. McCain’s “cap and trade” proposal to limit carbon emissions, saying it would amount to an energy tax on families.

¶On the detention center at Guantánamo Bay, which Mr. McCain vowed to close, Mr. Romney said at a debate: “Some people have said we ought to close Guantánamo. My view is, we ought to double Guantánamo.”

¶On waterboarding, Mr. Romney declined to characterize that interrogation tactic, a simulated drowning technique, as torture. Mr. McCain chided him, saying that it was.

But while Mr. McCain has a reputation for a short temper, he is also known for both seeking and granting forgiveness. After his own bitter, bruising primary fight against George W. Bush in 2000, he became a major supporter of Mr. Bush in 2000 and 2004. “I frequently refer to him has the Great Reconciler,” said Charlie Black, a senior McCain adviser who said Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney had become friends.

Even one of Mr. Romney’s biggest drawbacks — the barbs he aimed at Mr. McCain for months and months — could be an advantage. Vice-presidential candidates, after all, are traditionally asked to do much of the attacking in campaigns, to give the presidential candidate the chance to appear above the fray.

To that end, he seemed to be auditioning this week, even suggesting in an interview on NBC’s “Today” show on Friday that if Senator Barack Obama had been president last year, “Al Qaeda would be planning attacks against America from Iraq.”
591 2008-07-19 AS I stand at the gas station filling my tank, the meter tallies how much it’s going to cost me. At this station, a gallon is $4.26, and as the meter passes the $20 mark, then the $30, I realize that I am paying too much attention to the price of gasoline. I bet you are too.

Looking back at my family’s expenses over the past few years, I see big increases in our health care costs and in how much we pay for food. The rise in what we spend on gas is not nearly as extreme as our increases in categories like electricity and telephone. So why does the amount we spend on gasoline feel so enormous? I think it is because of the way we buy gas.

For the several minutes that I stand at the pump, all I do is stare at the growing total on the meter — there is nothing else to do. And I have time to remember how much it cost a year ago, two years ago and even six years ago.

Yet I have no such memory about the prices of items in any other category. I have no idea how much milk was six years ago, how much bread was three years ago or how much yogurt was a week ago. But I suspect that if I stood next to the yogurt case in the supermarket for five minutes every week with nothing to do but stare at the price, I would also know how much it has gone up — and I might become outraged when yogurt passed the $2 mark.

Another odd thing about the way we buy gasoline is that we usually buy multiple units. I just bought 13 gallons for a little more than $55. The sticker shock isn’t as intense when I see the price per gallon as it is when I’m faced with the total cost. Fifty-five dollars! I remember when I filled my tank for $20 and $25 and $30! Maybe if we bought 13 loaves of bread at a time or 15 gallons of milk we might become just as sensitive to how much we spend on those items.
592 2008-07-19 But now, eager for the Democrats to win the White House and increase their majorities in Congress, the union presidents are trying to maximize their political cooperation, especially in swing states where unions are strong: Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

“Most A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions, from my discussions, and probably all Change to Win Unions, want to think about how do we go about building a united labor movement,” said Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of America.

Mr. Cohen said there had been initial discussions about what might be done to bring back some of the breakaway unions, but he said the overwhelming focus for the next 15 weeks would be on the political campaign. After Election Day, he and several other union presidents said, talks might pick up on patching up differences between some Change to Win unions and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

Change to Win has 7 unions with more than 5 million members, while the larger federation has 56 member unions representing 10 million workers.

In a sign that the two sides are coming closer together, one breakaway union, the Laborers’ International Union of North America, has opted to participate in the A.F.L.’s political program this year, rather than the Change to Win program. Moreover, the laborers’ union has rejoined the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s Building and Construction Trades Department.

Several union officials said there was talk of trying to have the laborers’ president, Terence O’ Sullivan, succeed Mr. Sweeney, even though the laborers quit the federation. Mr. O’Sullivan is well liked and a spirited orator, and he has won praise for having his union do more organizing and nursing Ullico, a union-owned insurer, back from financial troubles and scandal.

Even after the Change to Win unions walked out in July 2005, hundreds of union locals that were part of those unions continued to participate in, and cooperate with, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.’s city, county and state labor councils. The antagonism was greatest at the national level, and the recent moves toward cooperation among national union presidents points to some easing of tensions.

Mr. Cohen, of the communications workers, has been a central figure in bringing the two sides together. He has worked with other union presidents, including Leo Gerard of the steelworkers, James P. Hoffa of the Teamsters and Bruce Raynor of Unite Here, to formulate a joint position that calls for slowing the push to free trade and including more worker protections in trade accords.

He has also persuaded several Change to Win unions to work closely with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. with the goal of mobilizing one million union members to push for passage of the Employee Free Choice Act, which would make it easier to unionize workers. The two sides are also cooperating to push the next president to enact universal health coverage.

“We’re not only talking about working together; we are working together,” Mr. Raynor said.

Several officials involved in the talks said that of the breakaway unions, the laborers and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union seemed most interested in rejoining the federation, although they would first want to see some reforms to make the A.F.L.-C.I.O. less bureaucratic. But these officials said that Unite Here, the service employees and the Teamsters were seeking far more than a handful of changes at the labor federation before they would consider rejoining.

Several union officials have proposed creating a new labor federation that perhaps would have a new name and be more nimble than the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

“It’s going to take substantial change to bring some of these unions back,” said one union president, who insisted on anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks between the two sides.
593 2008-07-19 One consequence, of course, is that the charities helped by the benefits are worrying about their futures (the Children’s Museum, for instance, is in danger of closing down). But a ripple effect is that the Hamptons fund-raising circuit, long a richly appointed, celebrity-studded and well-intended archipelago of self-congratulation, has become a lot less festive.

“It feels less giddy, sure,” said R. Couri Hay, a society publicist and a columnist for Hamptons magazine. “In the past, I’ve seen a lot of the old guard dropping out. It’s gotten more expensive. Tickets used to be $250 for everything. It’s gotten less exclusive — less Blue Book, if you will.”

Noting that a new charity he is working to promote, Help for Orphans International, had sold only seven tickets to its July 25 gala in Bridgehampton as of last week, Mr. Hay added, “Fancy new money would be fine with me.”

In the backyard of the Simmons house in East Hampton the other day, Ms. Murray broke things down a bit.

“We’ve only sold about five $30,000 tables,” she said. “Two or three years ago, we would sell 10. Some people who bought two tables in the past are buying one table this year. Some people have called to ask me about discount rates, which was not something we saw in the past. And we’re seeing individual couples who bought two tickets are not coming at all.”

But economizing hardly appeared to be a guiding principle as nearly two dozen workers assembled steel girders for a 10,000-square-foot free-span tent; expensive and pole-free, these tents are to outdoor parties what Gunite is to swimming pools and Sub-Zero is to refrigeration.

Ms. Murray explained, however, that there is pressure in the philanthropic world, despite the economic downturn, to always outdo past performances.

“There was some talk about getting a normal tent — our budget is about 10 to 15 percent lower than it was a couple of years ago — but we don’t want to give people less,” she said, adding that Mr. Simmons rented a free-span tent two years ago and didn’t want to do without it this year. “What does it say about you if you’re charging less or giving them less? Each year we’re expected to grow this event. People want to see some razzle-dazzle.”

Both Mr. Simmons’s party, which will honor a postmodern agglomeration of famous people including Ed Burns and Christy Turlington, Aretha Franklin, Gov. David A. Paterson, Diddy, and the film director Brett Ratner, and the Watermill Center gala (the highlights of which are costumed performers who emerge from the woods, unsuspected, throughout the evening and an auction of blue-chip artworks) are making a point of declaring their lowered fund-raising expectations ahead of time.

But locals said that fund-raisers for the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, whose benefit took place on July 12, were disappointed with the results.

Terrie Sultan, the museum’s director, declined to share specific numbers but said, “We probably raised about three quarters of what we have in the past.” (A museum official said $1 million has been the goal for recent galas.) Ms. Sultan said this was the first year in a long time that the benefit went without a major corporate sponsor. “We tried, but nobody signed on,” she said. “A big sponsor can give as much as $50,000. If you have to try to make that up with individual ticket sales, think about it.”

Jörn Weisbrodt, the Watermill Center’s director, said that last year, his benefit’s main corporate sponsor, Lexus, raised more than $200,000. “Last year, they approached us,” he noted. “This year, we went to them and they said they could not consider it.”

Watermill’s most optimistic forecast is now $1.5 million, compared with $2 million raised last year. “We’ve been very aggressive this year trying to reduce costs for the event,” Mr. Weisbrodt said. “We shopped around to find cheaper people for lights and sound. And we’re offering a $500 cocktails-only ticket that we didn’t really promote in the past. Last year, we sold 20; this year we sold 50.”

Eliza Rand, a spokeswoman for the Children’s Museum, said planners realized a week before the July 12 gala that they would fall short of their $280,000 goal, so “we decided to downscale in order to maximize what we were bringing in.” Out went the cover band, in came the local teenagers and museum instructors, performing free or for $75 stipends. A buffet dinner was replaced with a raw bar.

“The downturn in the economy has played a big part,” Ms. Rand said. “Also, over the years, we’ve seen more and more charities coming out here for events. There are two, three, four parties a weekend here running all summer long. It’s become very competitive.”

Some stalwarts of the benefit scene said they felt it had become so overgrown — and so full of newcomers — that they almost welcomed the smaller scale.

“There is a general sense of burnout about these big events,” said Andrew Saffir, who runs Cinema Society, a New York film publicity company with a strong presence in the Hamptons. “I think people are more selective about how they spend their Friday and Saturday nights out there.”

It might be too early to call this the East End’s summer of austerity, but Jeff Pennington, a high-end florist, said he had noticed that many of his steady private-home accounts had fallen off. “They’re asking for estimates, which they never used to,” he said. “For weekends when they don’t have guests, people are just doing their floral arrangements in-house.”

Or perhaps it is the summer of sobering up. Dan Rattiner, who publishes Dan’s Papers in the Hamptons, cited a number of recent occasions on which the local police have closed down art gallery parties or confiscated their Champagne for serving alcohol without a license. “My opinion is that nobody can buy a $100,000 painting without alcohol,” he said.

Debbie Bancroft, a socialite in Southampton, said that although she planned to go to as many benefits this year as in the past, many of her friends have been dialing back. “It’s hard enough to get the Wall Street husbands to come to these things,” she said. “And that’s when Wall Street is doing well.”
594 2008-07-19 While Paul Krugman makes a strong argument for regulation of mortgage lending (“Fannie, Freddie and You,” column, July 14), clearly such regulation is not enough.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, while not directly responsible for the current housing debacle, made their own unique contribution. As “government-sponsored enterprises,” they took excessive risks. Specifically, they kept an inadequate amount of capital on hand so that a small decline in assets or borrowing power left them in a highly vulnerable position.

We need disincentives to discourage reckless behavior. Markets fluctuate. Everyone knows that. Yet the two mortgage giants played fast and loose because they were sure that their investments — loans based on highly regulated lending practices and implicitly backed by the federal government — were safe.

Some mixture of professional and criminal penalties is needed for corporate managers who choose to take unnecessary risks. Further, the corporate sector should insist on adherence to financial standards as a cornerstone of ethical business practice.
595 2008-07-19 Is John McCain aware that Theodore Roosevelt was not a conservative? On virtually every domestic issue — race relations, the environment, the role of government in the economy — T.R. was what today would be labeled a robust liberal, and the leading conservatives of his day, like Mark Hanna, hated and feared him.

When Roosevelt created his own political party, he called it the Progressive Party, and he is generally considered the first president of the Progressive Era.

If Mr. McCain is having a difficult time crafting a coherent campaign message, perhaps that is because his two political heroes — Theodore Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan — were complete philosophical opposites.

John McCain says we should look at the Republican presidency of Teddy Roosevelt for insight as to how he would approach his own presidency.

Much like Roosevelt, Mr. McCain has ruffled the feathers of big business throughout his career. His crusades in favor of campaign finance reform have not won him any favor with big-money party donors, and his commitment to green issues and the environment leaves very few in his party he has not butted heads with.

Roosevelt was a reformer and not afraid to tackle traditionally non-“conservative” issues. Like Roosevelt, we always know where John McCain stands. Mr. McCain harks back to presidents who truly led with courage and conviction, when the interests of the nation came before the interests of the party. Republicans once again have the opportunity to put another maverick in the White House. Jason LeVecke
596 2008-07-19 The proposal would be to establish an interests section, rather than a fully staffed embassy, although the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules, have said that the idea has not been approved by the White House and that it could be delayed or blocked by opposition within the administration.

Speaking to reporters through a Turkish interpreter, Mr. Mottaki said that though he was open to talks on the issue, he was critical of the United States, saying that Iran had heard about the American plan only from the news media, instead of official channels.

On Saturday, William J. Burns, the State Department’s third-ranking official, was expected in Geneva to participate, along with European Union nations, in talks with Iran aimed at persuading it to suspend uranium enrichment in exchange for economic and political incentives. The European Union’s foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, and Tehran’s nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, were to take part in the meeting.

The Iranian delegation has prepared its own proposals on political, economic and security issues, and was ready to discuss them in detail, Mr. Mottaki said. He described a more positive atmosphere that he said had been created after Mr. Solana’s recent visit to Tehran in June to present a document of understanding among the six countries participating in the nuclear talks — the United States, Germany, Russia, France, Britain and China.

The latest steps come as the White House is adopting new tactics in dealing with Iran. With six months left in office, President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appear to be looking for new ways to reach out to the Iranian people as the administration tries to bring a peaceful resolution to the impasse over Iran’s nuclear program. Referring to the participation of Mr. Burns, of the State Department, in the talks, Mr. Mottaki said in English, “Formally, it is a new positive approach.”

In an appearance on NTV, a private television station in Turkey, Mr. Mottaki said: “The era during which Americans changed certain regimes in the world is over as they experienced everything they wanted to in the last 30 years. On the other hand, we take into consideration and pay attention to every positive effort.”

The Iranian foreign minister also dismissed any possibility of an Israeli and American joint military operation against Iran. “The possibility is zero,” Mr. Mottaki said on NTV.
597 2008-07-19 Here was the reappearance of the Great White Shark, swimming in ever-tightening circles around the Open, as if he and the old caddie Linn Strickler had gone through a time portal to the 1980s.

“H. G. Wells,” said Strickler, his craggy face brightening into a smile.

“Yeah, of course you feel like you’re stepping back in time,” said Norman, who was No. 1 for a total of 331 weeks between September 1986 and January 1998. “My expectations were almost nil coming in, to tell you the truth. I hadn’t played a lot of golf. Expectations are still realistically low, and I have to be that way, too, because I can’t sit here and say, ‘O.K., it’s great, I’m playing well and I’m doing it.’

“Well, I am playing well, I am doing it, but I still haven’t been there for a long time.”

A very long time. His last real shot at a major championship was in 1996, when he went into the final round of the Masters with a six-stroke lead, shot 78, and lost by five strokes to Nick Faldo, who shot 67. There are those who remember him almost exclusively for that. He is also the only golfer to have lost a playoff in each of the four majors — the 1984 United States Open, the 1987 Masters, the 1990 British Open and the 1993 P.G.A. Championship. Others remember him for that.

Larger than life, win or lose, Norman has always known how to command golf’s stage. It is not just his formidable physical presence — which Evert describes by outlining a V with her hands in the air, starting with the broad shoulders down the narrow hips.

His aura also comes from movement, a walk that consumes distance with unhurried strides, a golf swing that flashes with power, even still. Whether windblown and victorious at Turnberry in ’86, or bent and broken at Augusta National in ’96, he overwhelms the occasion and owns the moment. He could do the same at Royal Birkdale, where inexplicably, and simultaneously, he has found his game and peace of mind.

“My life is great,” he said. “I’ve got a wonderful wife, and my whole being that’s going on around here is just beautiful, to tell you the truth. So obviously it makes you feel more relaxed, makes you feel more comfortable about what you’re doing and where you are.”

He added: “There is obviously less pressure on me than most because obviously there will be more pressure tomorrow and Sunday. But honestly, there’s probably less pressure on me than anybody out here because even though I’m in the position I am in, I’m going to go out there and just say, ‘Hey, just go have fun with it.’ ”

That is a change from the full-bore, all-out-attack approach Norman once brought to his golf. But it is working so far. Norman played steadily and systematically, putted well and immediately offset a double bogey at the brutally tough sixth hole with birdies at Nos. 7 and 8, making putts of 25 and 15 feet to make the turn in one under par.

He demonstrated his fitness and flexibility at the 16th hole when, unable to get a stance inside the bunker, he straddled the edge, taking a spread-legged, deep crouch position. Maintaining it throughout his swing, he popped the ball on to the putting surface 12 feet from the hole, then made the putt.

Moves like that impress the youngsters.

“He’s got the body of a 25-year-old and the head of a 53-year-old,” said Justin Rose, 27. “It’s not a bad combination. But it’s superb, I guess, just to find the determination to go out there and really believe he can do it, I suppose.”

But is it feasible to think a 53-year-old could win a major on the regular circuit? Or is it like asking John McEnroe to get off the couch and make it into the fourth round at Wimbledon?

Jack Nicklaus, on the grounds at Birkdale on Friday in a corporate role for the Royal Bank of Scotland, thought about it for a just a second.

“Greg has played very little golf,” he said. “The only thing I can relate it to is when I won the Masters back in ’86. I hadn’t played any golf, I’d been playing a little bit, played a few tournaments. But I remembered how to play when I needed to down the stretch.

“Maybe that’s the position he’ll find himself in come the weekend. I mean, I’m sure he’ll remember how to play and remember how to win a golf tournament, when he gets himself in position to do so — when and if. We’ve got a long way to go. Even if he doesn’t, I think that will inspire him to go and play a little bit more.”
598 2008-07-19 Stocks muddled through a mixed session on Friday, ending a tumultuous week on a quiet note.

The major indexes were little changed after the price of oil fell by about 60 cents and Citigroup issued better-than-expected earnings. The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 49.91 points just before the close — the blue-chip index’s third positive session in a row — and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index finished nearly unchanged.

The Nasdaq fell 1.3 percent after investors absorbed disappointing earnings reports from Google and Microsoft, both bellwether technology firms. The tech-heavy index suffered as investors wondered how the tech sector would handle the current downturn.

Over all, however, it was the first winning week for the stock market in nearly two months. The S.& P. 500 gained 1.7 percent after two down days and two positive days, and shares of financial services firms had their best three-day streak ever.

The Citigroup report helped counter a disappointing quarter at Merrill Lynch, which reported its fourth consecutive loss on Thursday after markets closed. Shares of Merrill closed with a small gain, up 0.7 percent.

Citi, the country’s biggest investment bank, said Friday morning that it lost 54 cents a share last quarter, beating estimates of 66 cents. Shares of Citi were ended up more than 7 percent.
599 2008-07-19 Ms. Pillay’s name appeared on a short list along with those of Hina Jilani of Pakistan and Juan Méndez of Argentina, according to the diplomat, who declined to be identified by name because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. Under United Nations rules, her appointment requires the approval of the General Assembly.

Her appointment was opposed by the United States, which has been angered by South African diplomatic moves to thwart the imposition of sanctions on President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, according to human rights advocates.

When Ms. Pillay was growing up in South Africa, people of Asian descent were subject to the same segregation laws as those that separated other racial and ethnic groups, with their own residential areas, schools and laws forbidding interracial marriage. She was born in 1941 in a poor area of Durban, the daughter of a bus driver. As a human rights lawyer in the apartheid era, she was reported to have secured legal rights for political prisoners including Nelson Mandela.

According to her official biography from the International Criminal Court, in 1967 Ms. Pillay was “the first woman to start a law practice in Natal Province, South Africa, and the first black woman to serve in the High Court in her country. She has presided over both criminal and civil cases. As a practitioner, Judge Pillay defended many opponents of apartheid.”

“She has written on and practiced in international criminal law, international humanitarian law and international human rights law, and more particularly on crimes of sexual violence in conflicts,” the brief biography said.

Human rights advocates said they feared that, if confirmed, Ms. Pillay would be more low-key than her predecessor in a post that requires much travel and encounters with government officials who resent the human rights commissioner meddling in their affairs.

She will also have to stand up to the 47-member Human Rights Council, a separate United Nations body, which has been fighting to assert itself over the Geneva-based Office of the High Commissioner. The high commissioner works with the rights council but reports directly to the United Nations secretary general.

By choosing an African, Ban Ki-moon may well seek to make an impact on the council’s agenda.

The council’s work has often been paralyzed and distorted by maneuvers among regional groups to criticize Israel and to block debate on such topics as female genital mutilation and honor killings.

During Ms. Arbour’s tenure, the council accused the high commissioner of having a “Western” and “white” agenda.

African and Islamic group have long complained that the West stresses civil and political rights to gain economic and political advantage, while poorer countries want to include economic, social and cultural rights at the heart of the human rights agenda.

In an earlier interview at The Hague before her nomination had been raised, Ms. Pillay said she had a particular interest in the pursuit of gender crimes.

“It’s an advance that we now have gender crimes in the court statutes,” she said. “We need not only women judges, but also women investigators to ensure that gender crimes are pursued. Often the message is just to concentrate on the killings because that is the most serious.”

She continued: “Drawing attention to gender crimes is a never-ending task. Just because they are on the books, don’t think they will be pursued. We have to continue. This is only the beginning.”
600 2008-07-19 HAVE financial stocks finally fallen so far that they are great investments?

There was hope that was true this week. After selling off for months, the financial stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had their best day ever on Wednesday. But there have been previous rebounds in those stocks that have vanished as more bad news came out.

This week, the Bush administration felt it had to offer a $300 billion line of credit to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored enterprises that buy or guarantee most mortgages made in the United States. Their inability to function would devastate the credit markets and the economy, and worries about them initially contributed to sharp falls.

There have been times before when the financial system seemed to be in jeopardy, but it somehow recovered, and financial stocks soared as the fears faded.

The accompanying charts look at the performance of financial stocks over 52-week periods since the autumn of 1990, and do so in two ways.

The first chart shows the absolute performance of the Standard & Poor’s index of financial stocks in the S.& P. 500, not including dividends. The second chart shows by how many percentage points the financial index outperformed, or underperformed, the full S.& P. 500.
601 2008-07-19 A human rights activist who was an advocate for parents whose children were killed in collapsed schools, Huang Qi, was formally arrested on charges of illegally possessing state secrets, his lawyer said. Mr. Huang previously spent five years in prison for posting articles on politically delicate subjects on his Web site, 64tianwang.com. After the May 12 earthquake hit, Mr. Huang met with mourning parents and, on his site, posted articles about structural problems with the schools that had collapsed. Police officers detained him in Chengdu on June 10.
602 2008-07-19 Dr. Allen Nissenson is a professor of medicine and director of the dialysis program for the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles. He has written two medical textbooks on kidney disease treatment and was president of the National Anemia Action Council, a patient advocacy group.

Q: Anemia can result from a wide range of diseases and conditions. What are the most prominent causes?

A: The biggest categories are nutritional anemias, which are mainly iron deficiency, but also deficiencies in folic acid or vitamin B12. Another major cause is bleeding, usually from the gastrointestinal tract. Chronic diseases that have an inflammatory component, like rheumatoid arthritis, can also cause anemia.

And then there’s cancer itself, or the side effects from treating cancer, that can cause anemia. Another prominent cause is deficiencies in erythropoietin, or Epo, a hormone that stimulates red blood cell production, which is almost entirely a problem in people with kidney disease.

Q: A lot of symptoms of anemia share the same characteristics as being overworked or just tired. How do you tell the difference between normal fatigue and anemia?

A: You really can’t. One of the dilemmas with anemia is that the symptoms are pretty ubiquitous: tiredness, weakness, some difficulty in thinking clearly. They’re all kind of vague.

So what we tell people is if you have these symptoms and they go on for a long time or seem to be interfering with your ability to function normally, then you should see your doctor. One of the things you need to get checked is your hemoglobin level — the protein that carries oxygen in red blood cells — to see if that’s part of the anemia.

Q: Is there a specific cutoff point of hemoglobin that indicates whether someone is anemic?

A: One of the challenges is defining what normal is, and there’s no uniform acceptance of normal hemoglobin levels. The one most doctors use is from the World Health Organization. A hemoglobin level below 13 for men and below 12 for women is considered anemic.

Q: Nutritional deficiencies are a common cause of anemia. Do these arise from a poor diet or underlying disease?

A: Bleeding is one of the most prominent causes of iron deficiency, because when you bleed you lose red blood cells that contain iron. But there still is a significant prevalence of nutritional iron deficiencies, which is much more common in pregnant women and children because of their diets.

Nutritional iron deficiency is the biggest cause of anemia worldwide, and it’s a problem is some segments of the United States. For folate or vitamin B12, it’s much less common to be deficient.

Q: How difficult is to live with anemia?

A: It’s very tough. One of the things we learned, however, is that the ability of the body to adapt is tremendous. Over time, even people with moderately severe anemia say, “You know, I really don’t feel that bad.”

Although people are fatigued or can’t do as much as they could before, they slowly adapt their lifestyle. Instead of walking to the grocery store once a week, they may go once a month and buy everything they need because they’re too tired to keep going back. There’s a lot of adaptation that takes place, but anemia can be very debilitating.

A: The only life-threatening anemia is if you have massive hemorrhaging. But chronic anemia can be life-threatening indirectly in the sense that prolonged, severe anemia can cause the heart to enlarge and overwork, leading to heart failure. So through that mechanism, anemia can lead to serious morbidity or mortality.

Q: The Food and Drug Administration has issued warnings on three similar anemia drugs: Procrit, Aranasep and Epogen. How safe are these to use?

A: The studies that raised the red flags were either in cancer patients or in people with kidney disease, and they all showed something similar: if you attempt to correct the anemia completely back up to normal hemoglobin levels, that’s not a good idea. You start getting strokes or heart attacks, blood-clotting problems or increased mortality.

The recent studies that the F.D.A. flagged were just studies. Kidney specialists weren’t practicing this way — they were waiting for the studies. So we’re going to continue practicing the way we were, which is to give modest doses of the drugs, with modest improvements in hemoglobin.

Q: Are the drugs potentially dangerous for the elderly or other groups?

A: There are no studies to help us figure that out. There’s no question that since cancer patients and kidney patients are so different, but the same problem has arisen, I think people need to be extremely cautious with the use of these drugs.

One dilemma now is that if someone wanted to do a study on normalizing hemoglobin levels in the elderly with these drugs, I think an institutional review board that has to approve the ethics of studies like this would have a very difficult time because of the concerns of the risks.

Q: The F.D.A. says the drugs are safe to use in small doses that keep oxygen-carrying hemoglobin just below a level that is considered normal. Is this enough to help anemia patients feel better?

A: The quality of life benefit is seen with pretty modest increases of hemoglobin. It looks like you get the biggest bang for the buck early on. If you push the doses, then you start to see the toxicity.

Q: Are red blood cell transfusions a potentially safer option given the new concerns about the drugs?

A: As long as you’re aiming for a moderate increase in hemoglobin, the drugs are so much simpler and have few or any side effects unless you start pushing them hard. Whereas with transfusions, you still have the risk of infectious diseases and other issues.

Q: Are there lifestyle measures, like diet or exercise, that can treat anemia?

A: In the chronic conditions, there is probably very little that can be done. Obviously for nutritional anemia, improving nutrition will help. Probably the only thing you can do is to go to a higher altitude, because there’s less oxygen available.

As a result, the cells that make Epo detect that and then stimulate Epo to make more red blood cells. Even people with chronic illnesses have slightly higher hemoglobin when they go to altitude for a period of time.
603 2008-07-19 Confronting a new diagnosis can be frightening — and because research changes so often, confusing. Here are some questions you may not think to ask your doctor, along with notes on why they’re important.

How do I know if my fatigue is caused by anemia?

A physical exam will help determine the severity of your fatigue, along with other symptoms like weakness or difficulty concentrating. Doctors then test the level of hemoglobin in your blood, a substance that helps red blood cells carry oxygen to the body’s tissues, giving you strength. Persistent fatigue and lower than normal hemoglobin levels mean that you have anemia. Some doctors may also test your hematocrit level, which measures how much of your blood is made up of red blood cells. Low hematocrit is a further indication of anemia.

Can I get anemia from not eating properly?

Diets low in iron, vitamin B12 or folate can lead to anemia. But these nutrients are plentiful in most foods, and it does not take a significant amount of them to return nutrient levels to normal. Good sources of iron include red meats like liver, as well as poultry, fish, eggs, spinach and peas. The same types of animal products also contain B12, and most breakfast cereals are now specially fortified with the vitamin. Folate is a form of vitamin B found in breads, pasta and leafy vegetables.

Am I at risk for anemia if it runs in my family?

A small portion of anemias can be passed on to children at birth, namely thalassemias and sickle cell anemia. These are inherited genetic disorders that can cause the body to make fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin.

Several chronic diseases can cause anemia, including rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory disorders that block the body’s ability to absorb iron. Virtually everyone with a long-term kidney disorder suffers from anemia because the kidneys are not able to make enough erythropoietin, which controls the production of red blood cells. Anemia is also prevalent in cancer patients, both from the disease and treatments like chemotherapy. People with heart disease or AIDS also often suffer from anemia.

Anemia is not directly life-threatening unless it is linked to serious bleeding. But over time, anemia can cause the heart to overwork to compensate for the lack of energy. Patients with anemia tend to live shorter lives than those who suffer the same chronic diseases but without the fatigue.

Will anemia clear up over time?

Yes, as long as the underlying condition that caused the anemia is taken care of. Cancer patients who suffer from anemia, for example, may return to normal once their disease is in remission and treatment stops. Nutritional anemias are often easy to correct, with most people quickly returning to normal once they begin eating a proper diet.

Which anemia treatment should I use?

Iron supplements may be used if you are deficient in iron, either from a poor diet or chronic bleeding. The main treatment for many forms of anemia is using a drug to stimulate erythropoietin. The other major option is a red blood cell transfusion, which involves transferring donated oxygen-carrying blood cells to the anemic patient. Both treatments can improve symptoms of fatigue, but they are not a cure.

Are anemia drugs safe to use if I have cancer?

The Food and Drug Administration issued strict new precautions on anemia drugs after several studies found that higher-than-normal doses of the medications speeded tumor growth and shortened the lives of cancer patients. Those with breast cancer or cancers of the head and neck appear to have the highest risk and should consider forgoing the drugs altogether, a majority of experts convened by the F.D.A. recently advised.

In other tumor types, only patients receiving chemotherapy should take the drugs, because those who used anemia medications when they were not treating their cancer had higher rates of death. The F.D.A. recommends that cancer patients talk to their doctors about the risks and benefits of other options like red blood cell transfusions.

Are anemia drugs safe if I have kidney disease?

Many experts say that the benefits still outweigh the risks for people with kidney problems, as long as the drugs are used in moderate doses with modest aims. Studies have reported a higher number of deaths, nonfatal heart attacks, strokes and blood clots with high doses. The dangers appear to show up only after hemoglobin levels reach near-normal levels. Nearly everyone with kidney disease suffers anemia, and even modest improvements may restore some normalcy to people’s lives.

Are blood cell transfusions safe, and when should they be used?

Transfusions are routinely used to replace blood lost from serious injuries and during surgeries. They are also a common treatment for serious types of anemia, like sickle cell disease. But doctors consider transfusions a treatment of last resort for less severe anemia, because there is always a chance for spreading infectious disease and patients sometimes are matched with the wrong blood type. Better screening methods have significantly lowered these risks, but chronic anemia suffers may need several blood transfers, and the procedures are linked to greater problems the more they are used.

Nutritional anemias can be cleared up by getting more iron and vitamins. Researchers are studying whether exercise and special diets may increase energy in anemia patients, much like the benefits found in a range of other conditions. Living at higher altitude for a period of time is linked to naturally higher levels of hemoglobin and may help people feel less tired.
604 2008-07-19 Government agencies, universities and corporations frequently enroll patients in studies designed to test the effectiveness of new drugs, procedures and medical devices. Participants may benefit by gaining access to experimental therapies, and they make an important contribution to scientific research. For more information, visit ClinicalTrials.gov, a service of the National Institutes of Health.

Purpose: To test whether the immune-suppressing drug rituximab can increase blood counts and reduce the need for transfusions in patients with one of three types of moderate anemia.

Eligibility: Children 2 and older with pure red cell aplasia, or Diamond Blackfan anemia; adults 18 and older with moderate aplastic anemia.

Purpose: To explore the safety of bone marrow transplants in patients normally excluded from the procedure because of age and other reasons.

Eligibility: Adults ages 18 to 65 with congenital anemia who have a well-matched stem-cell donor sibling.

Sponsor: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

Purpose: To determine whether a new treatment regimen is superior to the current standard.

RECRUITING: Aranesp, Plus Iron, for Anemia Caused by Chemotherapy

Purpose: To determine the effectiveness of Aranesp (darbepoetin alfa) and iron in treating anemia caused by chemotherapy in patients with cancer.

Eligibility: Cancer patients 18 and older with mild to severe anemia.

Purpose: To determine whether treating anemia with erythropoetin in patients with heart failure and a normal ejection fraction can reverse structural changes to the heart and improve health status.

Eligibility: Adults ages 18 to 60 with heart failure and a normal ejection fraction.
605 2008-07-19 Dr. Lawrence Goodnough is the director of transfusion services at the Stanford University Medical Center and was president of the Society for the Advancement of Blood Management, a group that promotes better anemia control. He says that anemia is a serious medical condition, especially for people who suffer fatigue from chronic diseases. Here are the five things he believes everyone should know about managing the most common blood disorder.

1. Recognize the symptoms. Headaches, dizziness, difficulty thinking and fatigue are the hallmarks of anemia. If these symptoms persist, see a doctor for a blood test. Having a low level of hemoglobin — the oxygen-carrying part of blood — can help determine if you suffer from anemia.

2. Take anemia seriously. Everyone experiences fatigue from time to time, but anemia can sap your energy for long periods and keep you from doing the things you like. The symptoms may indicate an underlying bleeding problem that needs to be taken care of. Treatment for nutritional anemias can be as simple as getting more iron, vitamin B12 or folate, which are plentiful in most diets. More serious anemic conditions, like those caused by chronic diseases, may require special drugs or blood transfusions.

3. Get a blood test before surgery. Doctors will test your hemoglobin levels a day or two before surgery because low levels could raise the risk of bleeding complications. But Dr. Goodnough says he has made it his cause to push for testing at least a month in advance of elective surgery, so that any problems can be treated well ahead of time and not cause you to cancel your procedure.

4. Anemia is more common with aging. At least 8 percent of those over 65 suffer from anemia. This figure rises to 25 percent when people reach 75, a growing issue now that Americans are living longer. As many as half of anemia cases in the elderly are caused by either poor diet or kidney disease, both treatable conditions.

5. Chronic illness makes anemia more difficult to manage. Patients with cancer or kidney disorders face perhaps the hardest time, because both disease and treatment can make anemia worse. Women with cancer might suffer from three separate causes of fatigue, including the cancer, chemotherapy and blood loss from menstruating.
606 2008-07-19 Images of biking the Mekong Delta in southern Vietnam, an activity that offers a break from the backpacker boomtowns of Hoi An and Ho Chi Minh City, and affords a kind of eye-level communion not possible on a bus or train.     nytimes.com/travel...
607 2008-07-19 WEISS--Anne S., 94. Beloved: wife of the late Fred Weiss, mother of Joan Berkowitz (Ira), grandchildren Dara and Justin, sister Frances Shames, brother Sidney J. Shames and wife Betty, brother Harold Shames and wife Elaine, grand-nephews and niece...
608 2008-07-20 Taking another look at employees who blog disparagingly about former employers or start businesses in the face of non-compete agreements....
609 2008-07-20 Padraig Harrington came from two strokes back to defend his British Open title....
610 2008-07-20 The religious leader on the right weighs the options....
611 2008-07-20 A day at the ballpark for the Republican candidate...
612 2008-07-20 The Republican candidate tours the Hamptons circuit....
613 2008-07-20 Top-seeded James Blake struggled after a rain delay and was upset by the defending champion, Dimitry Tursunov, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, in the semifinals of the Indianapolis Tennis Championships. Tursunov, the third seed, will meet second-seeded Gilles Simon in the final Sunday. Simon outlasted fourth-seeded Sam Querrey, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4.
614 2008-07-20 There was a time, in the 1970s and ’80s that handguns were so coveted on the streets of Kings County, that the borough gave rise to a law enforcement legend known as the Brooklyn Bounce. If you were to throw a gun from a window in Bay Ridge or Bushwick, so the legend went, it would be eagerly grabbed before it had a chance to bounce more than once.

Over the last decade or so, violent crime has dropped in Brooklyn, as it has in the rest of New York City, but plenty of guns are still in circulation. So for several hours starting on Saturday morning, six churches in central Brooklyn tried to help remedy that by inviting people to anonymously drop off firearms in exchange for cash cards worth hundreds of dollars.

The gun buyback program, which was financed by the New York Police Department and the Brooklyn district attorney’s office, was intended to complement an existing Police Department program that gives $100 to any person who turns in a gun to any police facility in the city.

People who showed up at the churches on Saturday with a working pistol, rifle or shotgun were given $200 cash cards for each weapon, with a limit of three payments. The cards can be used at stores or to withdraw money at A.T.M.’s. And while the police officers inside the churches were also accepting air guns and BB guns, people who surrendered those received $20 apiece.

On Saturday morning, the Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, visited the Southern Baptist Church in East New York and said that he was optimistic about the program. “We are hopeful that this will have a measurable effect in a further reduction of gun violence and murder,” he said. “I think we’re going to run out of money tonight.”
615 2008-07-20 Jürgen Melzer of Austria will play Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina on Sunday in the final of the Austrian Open in Kitzbühel. Melzer beat last year’s runner-up, Potito Starace of Italy, 6-4, 6-7 (8), 6-3, on Saturday to reach his first final of the year; Del Potro defeated Victor Hanescu of Romania, 6-3, 7-6 (5).

The 19-year-old Del Potro will be playing in his second career final, a week after he won his first title in Stuttgart, Germany. Del Potro is 2-0 against Melzer after beating him in a 2007 Davis Cup match and in the second round of last year’s United States Open.
616 2008-07-20 But it is indeed calculated and does provide a chance for the candidates and their aides to assess how they and their prospective running mates look as a ticket, in the newspaper photographs and television images these events are producing. That is no small thing, as could arguably be seen in Mr. Bayh’s eyes last week as he cast a vice-presidential gaze at Mr. Obama.

And the accelerated pace of these appearances is a reminder that although both campaigns are going to great lengths to keep the process a secret — officials in both headquarters are fiercely competitive about which side will do a better job in preventing leaks — this search is moving into its endgame. Mr. Obama is likely to announce his choice the week before the Democratic convention begins on Aug. 25, party officials said. Mr. McCain is leaning toward announcing his as soon as the Democratic convention is over, though associates said he had not ruled out making the announcement before the Olympics begin on Aug. 8.

As the process unfolds, strategic imperatives for the two candidates have become clearer.

Members of both parties said Mr. Obama, 46, should not be looking to make any dramatic or risky moves that would divert attention from his role as the would-be head of a new generation of leadership seeking to make a clean break from the politics of the past.

By contrast, Mr. McCain, 71, has good reason to look for a choice that would change the landscape, a point that some of his own advisers are making to him.

“Republicans need to do something to shake things up,” said Steve Elmendorf, who played a significant role in the vice-presidential search as a deputy campaign manager for Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee in 2004. “Barack is in a different situation, and he needs somebody who can be safe and steady.”

Ed Rollins, a Republican strategist who led Mike Huckabee’s presidential campaign this year, said Mr. McCain “needs to pick someone who will really energize and excite the party, but also someone with whom McCain feels a real comfort level and is young enough for those worried about the age issue.”

For Mr. Obama, there is no shortage of what Democrats describe as do-no-harm people he can pick: be it Mr. Bayh; Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware; Mr. Nunn; or Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia, who introduced Mr. Obama at a huge rally in Northern Virginia two days after he effectively won the nomination, and whom many Democrats see as one of the more intriguing names on Mr. Obama’s list.

Democrats said they thought it was less likely now than it was a month ago that Mr. Obama would choose Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York as his running mate, though they said she remained in consideration and that she was being vetted.

If he does not choose Mrs. Clinton, several Democrats said, it would be difficult for him to name any woman — like Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, someone for whom he has had warm words. Both Clinton and Obama advisers said such a move could create a backlash among women who supported Mrs. Clinton.

Should Mr. McCain decide he wants to shake things up, his options would appear to be limited. Many of the biggest brand names in the Republican Party — like Colin L. Powell, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida — are politically tarnished or have signaled that they have no interest.

Other members of the take-a-chance-on-me category would bring baggage. They include Tom Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania and the nation’s first Homeland Security secretary. Mr. Ridge would help Mr. McCain compete in Pennsylvania — a state that is always close and that Mr. McCain would love to win.

But Mr. Ridge also supports abortion rights, which means that while Mr. McCain might gain some points in his continuing effort to appeal to independents, he would inflame conservatives who have never been happy about his candidacy.

Or he could pick Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. Putting a woman on the ticket would certainly qualify as shaking things up, with the added incentive of allowing him to make a play for Democratic and independent women who supported Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primary and are unwilling to shift allegiance to Mr. Obama.

That said, Ms. Palin is not exactly a household name, Alaska is not a state a Republican presidential candidate needs to worry about, and even some of Mr. McCain’s associates said she might not exactly be prepared to be president.

By contrast, there is no shortage of presumably solid but more stolid possibilities: Mr. Romney, who might help him in Michigan, where he was born; Mr. Pawlenty, who could help him in Minnesota, which Republicans would like to turn into a swing state; or Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, who helped Mr. McCain win the primary there and recently joined him on an airboat tour through the Everglades.

Mr. McCain had a town-hall-style meeting in Ohio with Rob Portman, a former congressman, trade representative and director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Bush. Mr. Portman introduced the senator, and the two met privately for half an hour, an adviser to Mr. Portman said.

In truth, there are all kinds of names bubbling around in this quiet July in Washington. In some cases, the two campaigns are floating names they have no intention of picking just to appease an ego or a political constituency. And if history is any guide, there might be some names that even in this frenetic round of speculation no one has considered. At this point in 1988, Dan Quayle was not on many lists of possible running mates for George Bush; indeed, he was not even on the list of some of Mr. Bush’s own top advisers.

But if the campaigns have their way, the real lists are not likely to leak out. “I’ve been instructed on the penalty of death that I give no clues as to where the process is,” said Mark Salter, Mr. McCain’s close friend and adviser.

Senior advisers to Mr. Obama said his vetting team had separated itself from his campaign and political advisers to try to keep strategic calculations out of the process. Caroline Kennedy and Eric H. Holder Jr., a former deputy attorney general, are running the team.

“We’re not speaking to anyone — this is for Senator Obama to share at the appropriate time,” Mr. Holder wrote in a brief e-mail message.
617 2008-07-20 Departments have switched to lower octane gasoline and installed G.P.S. receivers in patrol cars to make dispatching more efficient. State troopers have gone from cruising the highways to sitting and monitoring traffic in “stationary patrols.”

The State Highway Patrol in Missouri plans to increase its use of single-engine airplanes to look for speeders. In Marietta, Ga., the police department is working out a policy for its new T3 Personal Mobility Vehicles, a battery-powered cross between a Segway and a scooter. In Cook County, Ill., sheriff’s deputies have mothballed their cars in favor of bicycles. And the New York City Police Department acquired 20 hybrid cars this month.

Other agencies have increased penalties for false alarms, stopped responding to 911 calls if they are determined not to be emergencies or put two officers in some cars.

But one of the most popular fuel conservation measures has been the simplest: walking. Or as Chief Frank Hooper of Gainesville, Ga., put it in a memorandum, “walk and talk.”

The old-fashioned foot patrol has gone in and out of vogue. But in the last decade or so, the use of ever more refined mapping to pinpoint criminal hotspots has lent itself to the practice. Many departments at least pay lip service to the idea of community policing, in which officers get to know residents, develop contacts and tackle problems that fall outside the traditional realm of police work. Police chiefs who are particularly devoted to the community policing model say gasoline prices are helping to push their officers in that direction.

“I’ve always had a theory that one of the greatest inventions was police cars, because it made us more mobile,” Chief Hooper said. “And one of the worst inventions was air-conditioning, because we rolled our windows up.”

Chief Hooper said he had always encouraged his officers to get out and talk to residents. But under the threat of losing the privilege of taking home patrol cars because of high gas prices, Gainesville officers cut their gas consumption by 10 percent last month compared with June 2007. They have walked the town square, the malls and, at night, abandoned buildings.

Officer Adam Crenshaw said he did not mind escaping his car or even sitting in one place to monitor traffic. “Being stationary, you see a lot more,” he said. “I’m able to see a lot more child restraint violations.”

In Suwanee, Officer Stewart said that walking and talking suited his natural inclinations and helped him work cases. Restaurant workers, he said, “have intel on all kinds of stuff. They know who’s doing what. They know about drugs coming into the city.”

He said building relationships can help save on gasoline costs, too. He passes out his cellphone number and e-mail address and can handle business in ways that do not involve getting into his car.

But not all officers have been so easily lured out of their cars.

“The average officer thinks that if they’re constantly on the move, they’re doing a better job of preventing an incident from occurring,” said Chief Ric Moss of Woodstock, Ga. “Candidly some of them have said, ‘Well, gee, you know, it’s hot out there.’ Well, if you go in that store, you’ll cool off, you’ll get to know the manager and you’ll get your presence known. We’ve had to educate them as to the benefits.”

One officer on a bicycle has already caught a thief in the act of stripping copper from an abandoned building, Chief Moss said. “How you measure how much crime you prevented, that’s always a question,” he said. “But if we’re getting into areas that we’re not getting into with a motor vehicle, I’m satisfied.”

Departments that have limited car patrols say that they have seen no effect on crime or citations or that it is too soon to tell. They say that the public has been apprehensive when changes have been announced, but that the reaction to more accessible police officers has been positive.

At Taco Mac, a restaurant in Suwanee where Officer Stewart was greeted with hugs and a Diet Coke, the manager, Steve Helms, said he would rather have an officer in his bar than cruising the streets in a marked car.

“We stay open the latest in the entire city,” Mr. Helms said. “It’s a deterrent.”

Still, some jurisdictions have resisted any notion of restricting patrols. “I have one beat alone in the northeastern division that is larger than the city of San Francisco,” said Detective Gary Hassen of the San Diego Police Department. “To say, ‘Gee, are you going to walk that?’ — it would be impossible.”

George Kelling, a professor of criminal justice at Rutgers University and a longtime proponent of community policing, said police departments that clung to their cars were missing the point.

“There are areas even in suburban areas where citizens congregate, and it seems to me that we would want to have police officers in areas where people congregate,” Professor Kelling said. “You can increase and decrease the number of police riding around in cars, and the public can’t tell the difference. You can increase the number of police out interacting with the community, and people can tell the difference very quickly.”
618 2008-07-20 “I’m more interested in listening than doing a lot of talking,” Mr. Obama told reporters before leaving Washington for a trip cloaked in secrecy because of security concerns. “And I think it is very important to recognize that I’m going over there as a U.S. senator. We have one president at a time.”

Even as the fragile economy has emerged as the chief issue on the minds of voters in the United States, the presidential race on Saturday unfolded with a foreign policy debate taking place across borders and time zones, a reminder that the nation is at war and that the candidates offer very different backgrounds and approaches when it comes to national security.

Mr. Obama touched down in Kabul just before noon on Saturday, his aides said, after stopping to visit American troops in Kuwait on his trip from Washington. He met with regional leaders in Afghanistan on Saturday and was expected to meet with President Hamid Karzai.

While the Iraq war has been one of the dominant issues in the presidential campaign, Afghanistan has moved to the forefront of the foreign policy plans of both candidates. President Bush’s agreement to a “general time horizon” for withdrawing American troops in Iraq has opened the door to new consideration of strengthening the American and NATO presence in Afghanistan, which Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain both agree on in principle.

For months, Mr. McCain has criticized his rival for failing to visit Afghanistan and taking only one trip to Iraq. Even on Saturday, in a radio address, Mr. McCain renewed his criticism and sought to minimize Mr. Obama’s trip. “In a time of war,” Mr. McCain said, “the commander-in-chief’s job doesn’t get a learning curve.”

But Republicans were carefully watching Mr. Obama’s trip, which is rare in its profile and scope for a presidential candidate. Mr. McCain took a trip with similar itinerary in March, but it received far less attention.

In addition to his visit to Iraq, Mr. Obama is set to meet with a series of leaders as he travels to Iraq, Jordan, Israel and three European capitals, including Berlin, where he is to give a major speech on Thursday. On the Afghanistan and Iraq leg of the trip, he has been joined by Senators Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, both of whom have been mentioned as possible running mates for Mr. Obama.

The three senators, all of whom have been critical of the administration’s policy in Iraq and Afghanistan, flew on Saturday to Jalalabad, one of 13 provincial bases that are commanded by American forces in the Regional Command East of the NATO force in Afghanistan. Many of those provinces, including Kunar, Nuristan, Nangarhar, Khost and Paktika, line the border with Pakistan’s turbulent tribal areas, where militant groups allied with the Taliban and Al Qaeda have gained in strength and have increased attacks by some 40 percent in recent months.

The governor of Nangarhar Province, Gul Agha Shirzai, a former mujahedeen commander who has a brutal past but is favored by the United States as a doer, was the only Afghan official to meet the senators, along with the United States ambassador and generals. Mr. Shirzai, who is thought to have his own aspirations in Afghan presidential elections next year, has been praised for his tough action against poppy cultivation and official corruption in his province.

“Barack Obama thanked the officials of Nangarhar and the people of Nangarhar for eliminating poppy cultivation, fighting corruption, and he promised that the United States would give more help to Afghanistan and especially to Nangarhar,” he said by telephone after the one hour meeting.

The senators flew back to Bagram air base, north of Kabul, at 5 p.m., the governor said. At 6 p.m. two military Chinook helicopters landed at the United States embassy, as two more attack helicopters circled above.

Afghans in Kabul said they knew nothing of the visit of the presidential candidate, and some interviewed on the streets near the American Embassy did not even know who Mr. Obama was. But some who had heard of him said they liked his message, in particular that he would pursue Al Qaeda in Pakistan.

“So far what he is talking about is what Afghans want to hear: reduce troops in Iraq, focus on Afghanistan and focus on Pakistan,” said Ashmat Ghani an influential tribal leader whose home province of Logar, just south of the capital, is suffering from growing instability by insurgent groups.

Mr. Ghani, who is a critic of Mr. Karzai’s weak leadership and opposes his running for another presidential term next year, also welcomed Mr. Obama’s recent criticism that the Afghan president has not come out of his bunker to lead efforts in reconstruction and building security institutions.

“We would welcome such a direct voice that would close up this problem,” he said.

Yet other Afghans interviewed were skeptical that a new American president would make much difference for them.

“What have we seen from the current president that we should expect anything from a future president,” said Abdul Wakil, 28, who runs a juice stall in the street near the heavily guarded United States embassy in central Kabul.

Mr. Obama’s trip is drawing considerable attention in the United States and abroad. It is being choreographed by his strategists to coincide with a new television advertisement intended to highlight his ideas on foreign policy and portray him as ready to serve as commander in chief, an issue on which, polls suggest, he is lagging behind Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain responded with a weekend television commercial of his own, criticizing Mr. Obama’s opposition last year to sending more American troops to Iraq, which has contributed to a reduction in violence there. “He was so certain the surge would fail that he called for our troops to retreat as quickly as possible,” Mr. McCain said.
619 2008-07-20 In the Old East Village, Character and Danger

Thanks so much for the article “Bohemia Takes Its Final Bows” (July 13), about gentrification in the East Village since the opening of the musical “Rent.”

I was born in the mid-1980s to a city that was not quite as gritty as the one my parents moved to in the 1970s. Every single area that I was not allowed to go to as a child is now well populated with the yoga studios and organic markets mentioned in the article. Maybe for newcomers, this city is at its height, but I loved the dangerous, smelly city I grew up in.

I doubt we will ever get that character back, and I mourn that I won’t be able to raise my children in that New York. Thank you for a great obituary to a dear, departed love.

Rebecca Offensend

Brooklyn Heights

My parents, in middle age, moved to a studio apartment in a luxury building on Fifth Avenue and Eighth Street. Coming from a not-very-exciting neighborhood in Brooklyn, I eagerly loved to visit my mom and dad, to walk around Washington Square Park, to watch the chess players and a large variety of colorful individuals.

My younger brother and his wife lived in a fifth-floor walk-up in the West Village, never complaining. The Village, both East and West, represented bohemia to our small family, and we adored being there in those years.

My parents, now long gone, never left New York, but my husband, considering a change of careers, “migrated,” with myself and our two daughters, to Los Angeles; Kansas City, Mo.; Flint, Mich.; and finally back to Queens. My brother and his new family are now happily living in a San Francisco suburb. When we get together, we talk with much nostalgia of our Brooklyn and Greenwich Village “roots,” realizing, of course, that so much has changed, and none of us will ever go back again.

Leonore Brooks

Whitestone, Queens
620 2008-07-20 The vendors also sold beer (“Beer here!”) and, most memorably for me, peanuts. I can still see the bags of them thrown — and caught — unerringly, and the change in coins flicked across the rows of seats to customers.

Those were the days, my friends.

The Dodgers and Ebbets Field “have faded from New York memory”? Not if geezers like myself have anything to say about it.

Doug Kriegel’s memories of selling hot dogs at Ebbets Field brought back to me my days at Yankee Stadium in the early ’50s selling hot dogs at a large stand under the seats.

In those days, more than 60,000 fans would not be unusual, and all seemed to me to be aggressively and immediately interested in buying hot dogs.

Fans 10 deep, all yelling for beer, peanuts and especially hot dogs, created a chaotic scene that subsided only when the seated crowd roared and all turned, almost on signal, toward the field.

Once our customers knew what had happened, they returned to us in an even more elevated frenzy.

The hot dogs in the greasy water were quickly sold, to be replaced by cold dogs run through the water for a quick bath and immediately stuffed in a bun and slapped with mustard.

The screaming customers demanded more, and faster — after all, they were missing the game! In response, we took the dogs from a bag, never mind the water, stuffed and mustarded them and pushed them into grateful hands. We made change, handling dogs, rolls, mustard, dollars and coins simultaneously. Food police, anyone?

At the end of the game, I made my way home on the bus covered in sweat, greasy hot dog water and mustard, as fellow passengers, sniffing the air, moved away.
621 2008-07-20 Plant-swapping is another thrifty art I learned from my father, who divvied and split pachysandra and forsythia with neighbors struggling to green up our raw, then-new development of ranches and split-levels. When it comes to landscaping, I hew to his creed: propagate the heck out of what you’ve got, and size up thy neighbor’s perennial bed for barter possibilities.

Dad was recycling — pots, stakes, bulbs, seeds — back when it cost 25 cents to fill the mower with gas. The spring after he died, I laid claim to his much-mended tomato cages and slapdash trellises, which are now creaking beneath a bumper crop of snap peas and cukes.

These are admittedly amateur economies. But there is another way to save money. Cutting-edge professional advice is available — free. During the last growing season. I was thrilled to discover a resource that many gardeners are still unaware of, when I visited the busy walk-in clinic for plant maladies at the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station in New Haven.

There, where plant pathologists have assisted without charge since 1888, the staff offers diagnosis and treatment advice to growers of all stripes, from backyard tomato enthusiasts to the proprietors of multimillion-dollar nursery crops threatened by microscopic mites. They receive more than 7,000 inquiries a year. Give them your wilted, your spotted, your fungused and mildewed specimens. They’ll dissect and test, and consult their huge data bank for answers.

The garden forensics are overseen by Dr. Sharon Douglas, head of the station’s plant pathology and ecology department, who has been providing diagnoses there for 26 years. “When people come in with a diseased plant,” Dr. Douglas explained, “we often put a sample in the stereo microscope, which has a great video display they can see.” Over the last few years, she has frequently gotten this response: “Wow! It’s just like ‘C.S.I.’ ”

Hunting bad-guy diseases like phytophthora — a nasty root-rot pathogen with a broad variety of hosts, including rhododendrons and azalea — Dr. Douglas and her slime-scene investigators are relentless. Sometimes, suspecting new and dreaded plant terrorists like sudden oak death, they consult with the United States Department of Agriculture. But unlike the forensics showboaters on “C.S.I.,” this team goes beyond merely unmasking the killers.

“One of the major parts of our service is educational,” Dr. Douglas said. “We diagnose problems, but we want people to understand the situations that led to them. It’s a holistic approach we call plant-health management. Is it in the right spot, with enough light and water? How’s the soil? Are there enough nutrients? That’s detective work we can teach people to do themselves.”

Often, she suggests soil testing, which is also free. “We’ll see people replacing plants a few times in the same spot. In the long run, making adjustments to the planting environment can save a lot of money and grief.”

Having counseled many a new homeowner craving an instant landscape, she cautions that buying bigger isn’t necessarily better: “A smaller tree,” for instance, “will have less stress adjusting to the transplant. It establishes itself more effectively and will be more structurally sound.”

The Plant Disease Information Office, Room 112 in the Station’s Jenkins Laboratory building, accepts plant and soil samples on weekdays from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm, or by mail. Details on submitting samples are available at (877) 855-2237 or go the station’s Web site, www.ct.gov/caes.

Backyard and professional gardeners can also take advantage of the station’s annual plant science day. This year, it will be held on Aug. 6 at Lockwood Farm in Hamden. Dr. Douglas and her staff will be there, microscopes at the ready.

The question and answer tent is popular, Dr. Douglas said. “We get lines. Some people walk in with a box of 15 samples to be looked at. Others show up with one beloved begonia. They can also bring a soil sample for analysis.”

Had we known about this bounty of free advice back in the day, Dad and I would have loaded up the Chevy with a bushel basket of wilting and spotted patients, along with sandwich bags full of the soil he was always sifting and sniffing for the perfect organic bouquet. Doubtless he’d deliver us to the lab with the axiom he applied to all his domestic economies: “You see a deal, kiddo — jump on it.”
622 2008-07-20 IN Jersey City, as in other area cities on the way to revitalizing their downtowns, an explosion of high-priced developments is well under way even as the need for midpriced housing generally expands. And city officials, discerning that their municipal employees are being priced out of living in the community, are increasingly feeling the need to do something about it.

“Our real estate has escalated to such a high value,” said Bob Antonicello, the city redevelopment director, “that cops starting out at about $43,000, and firemen starting at $41,000, teachers at $38,000 or around that, could not afford to live here — and we really need and want them to be part of the community 24-7.”

Jersey City has jumped on the issue of “work-force housing,” as reasonably priced housing is currently being termed in urban-planning circles. Working with new state programs that support low-cost mortgages for those earning somewhat more than the average income for a community, with allowances for two-income couples, the city is aggressively recruiting developers to build new housing that municipal workers can afford.

A prototype development of eight condo units — three of them set aside as subsidized — was recently completed in the Greenville section. Built by Eagle Rock Development, the project recently won an award for energy-efficient design from the federal Environmental Protection Agency. Work on the full project, with a total of 45 units, is set to begin soon, said Paul DeBellis, Eagle Rock’s principal.

Similarly, in Newark — another revitalization site that has relatively little midpriced housing — there is a shortage that at least one developer is setting out to remedy.
623 2008-07-20 Re “Still Out There (In Movie Theaters) by Mark Harris [July 13]:

While the whole story of the “X-Files” plotlines may never be revealed, one “out there” truth is that, by design or accident, the series puts those with even the most valid conspiracy theories, or even confirmed accusations, about government misdeeds into the same category as those who find extra-terrestrials making cryptic designs in their cornfields.

If this has been done intentionally, to serve the Rush Limbaughs and Pentagon officials who accuse investigative reporters of being “out there” conspiracy nuts, then we have a ready-made screenplay for the next “X” movie, perhaps a documentary.
624 2008-07-20 A decade ago, in a slender volume called “The Dissent of the Governed,” Stephen L. Carter, a professor of law at Yale University, offered a bracing, meticulously argued brief against the tendency of government to see treason in mere civil disobedience. In “Palace Council,” his hugely implausible but entertaining new novel about real treason and deep skulduggery, Carter’s fiction-writing imagination lets his professorial precision take a wild summer vacation.

Set between 1952 and 1975, the book asks us to believe, first, in the longstanding existence of a clandestine fraternity of “powerful white men,” known to their members as the Palace Council, bent upon overthrowing the democratic processes of the United States; second, in the integration of the group during the early 1950s by some prominent African-Americans who believe it can advance racial justice; and third, in a project of the council that deploys an armed black group usually referred to as Jewel Agony. Readers must also consider whether the group’s reorientation in 1952 involved the participation of the vice-presidential candidate Richard Nixon, who may have been “persuaded that the existence on American soil of violent revolutionaries would help slow or even reverse the pace of social change.” For good measure, a “third force” is probably manipulating and countervailing the whole shebang.

There is, believe it or not, a fine novel begging to get out of all this Da Vinci-coded nonsense. Carter gives us two complicated and appealing main characters, Edward Trotter Wesley Jr. and Aurelia Treene, both too good for the plot they’re tossed into.

Eddie is a successful novelist (two National Book Awards before he’s 40), an ambitious and cocksure “doubter of conventions and rules, except in literature, where he accepted them entirely.” Along the way, he also becomes a speechwriter for John F. Kennedy and a political journalist, his byline desired by the late-’60s left, though he’s too flinty and independent to be counted on. However much Eddie’s nonfiction may inveigh against the Vietnam War, it’s also skeptical of Che Guevara and ambivalent about Nixon, whose tormented, jowly presence hangs over “Palace Council” with a curiously tender villainy.

As the book opens in the mid-1950s, the self-possessed, complicated Aurelia is working as a gossip writer for The Seventh Avenue Sentinel, New York’s “second-largest Negro paper.” The object of Eddie’s considerable but dithering passion, Aurelia is a woman of peculiar integrity — loyal in an old-fashioned way and fundamentally honest, despite having fabricated a whole enviable girlhood quite unlike the difficult, orphaned one she actually had. She puts herself beyond Eddie’s reach with her marriage to Kevin Garland, the son of Matty, a pillar of the still racially progressive Republican Party, whose investment firm has made him “possibly the wealthiest Negro in the United States.”

The Garland family appeared in Carter’s first novel, “The Emperor of Ocean Park,” and in this new one its members help anchor his depiction of various Harlem hierarchies, both social (presided over by the formidably snobbish matrons Congressman Adam Clayton Powell calls the “czarinas”) and intellectual. This terrain provides far and away the most absorbing material, but instead of concentrating on it and showing us, say, Kevin Garland’s realistic political evolution, Carter decides to have Aurelia’s husband get blown up because of his secret connection to the fantastical project.
625 2008-07-20 Tara Nicole Levine and Jonathan Clark Kniss were married on Saturday at the Harbor Club in Huntington, N.Y. Rabbi Melvyn May officiated.

Mrs. Kniss, 33, is an assistant director of human resources at St. Mary’s Healthcare System for Children in Bayside, Queens. She graduated from the State University of New York College at Oswego and received a master’s degree in education from Suffolk University.

The bride is a daughter of Susan and Howard Levine of Boynton Beach, Fla. Her father retired as an electrical engineer in the Trident navigation submarine group at Lockheed Martin in Mitchel Field, N.Y. He is now an adjunct professor of physics at the Palm Beach Gardens campus of Palm Beach Community College in Florida. Her mother retired as a medical assistant in the internal medicine department at Stony Brook University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y.

Mr. Kniss, 35, is a teacher at Public School 131, in Jamaica, Queens; last year he taught fifth grade. He graduated from St. John’s University and has a master’s degree in elementary education from Boston University.

The bridegroom is a son of Diane and Dick Kniss of Saugerties, N.Y. His mother works in Maplewood, N.J., as the assistant to Rick Rodgers, a food consultant and cookbook author. His father is the bassist for Peter, Paul and Mary, the folk trio. He also performed with John Denver and was one of the writers of “Sunshine on My Shoulder.”
626 2008-07-20 Furthermore, inducing the wealthy to pay for their own health coverage would create pressures to lower costs.

An alternative path is to put in place more means testing throughout Medicare. For instance, higher-income older Americans have already been paying larger Medicare premiums and receiving a lower prescription drug benefit; that’s part of what made it possible to expand the prescription benefit within budgetary constraints.

This could be taken much further. Of course, the idea of cutting some government transfers provokes protest in some quarters. One major criticism is that programs for the poor alone will not be well financed because poor people don’t have much political power. Thus, this idea goes, we should try to make transfer programs as comprehensive as possible, so that every voter has a stake in the program and will support more spending.

But even if this argument holds true now, it may not be very persuasive when Medicare costs start to push taxation levels above 50 percent. A more modest program, more directly aimed at those who need it, might prove more sustainable in the longer run.

Americans have supported the growth of many programs aimed mainly at the poor. Both Medicaid and the Earned Income Tax Credit have grown rapidly in size since their inception. The idea of helping the poor — and not having the government take over entire economic sectors — was the original motive behind welfare programs, in any case.

Furthermore, the argument for comprehensive and universal transfer programs does not meet the ideal of democratic transparency. If taking care of the poor is the real value in welfare programs, those programs should be sold as such to the electorate. We shouldn’t give wealthier people benefits just to “trick” them, for selfish reasons, into voting for greater benefits for everyone, the poor included.

Targeted social benefits have been used successfully around the world. Mostly for fiscal reasons, Finland, Sweden, Britain and Australia all have moved toward a greater use of targeted benefits for those who need them. Typically in these countries, higher earners receive lower pension benefits — and that helps to maintain strong and robust welfare states.

The biggest problem with such efforts is measuring and enforcing the rules that establish who receives a specified benefit and who doesn’t. Means testing in Medicaid causes many people to hide income and assets or to transfer assets to family members, so they can look poorer and still get benefits. This is a real problem, but the fiscal difficulties of staying on our current spending path may well be far worse.

Advocates of health care reform tend to be long on ideas for expanding care and access, but short on practical solutions for cost control. The argument is often made that single-payer health care systems in Canada or Europe are cheaper than health care in the United States. But Medicare is already a single-payer plan, yet its costs are unsustainable.

The best option is probably to tie the size of Medicare benefits to a person’s lifetime income, which is relatively easily measured and hard to game, rather than to one’s income or assets in any current year. In essence, higher earners would receive lower benefits instead of facing the prospect of higher taxes, as current trends predict. This policy reflects an ethic of individual responsibility — namely, that people who have earned well throughout their lives should be expected to take care of themselves, precisely so that the truly unfortunate can be helped.

Coverage gaps will remain. What if you lose or squander all your savings, for example, just before you retire? But the real question concerns the opportunity cost of the money we are using to subsidize the health care of high lifetime earners. Given the number of problems in the United States today, it’s hard to believe that this is the best use for the money.

Don’t expect to hear much about targeted benefits anytime before November. Such proposals would acknowledge the painful but probably realistic notion that we don’t have many good ways to control health care costs.

Furthermore, balancing the budget is a popular goal, while cutting benefits is not. But if you’re asking which ideas are most likely to transform economic policy over the next 15 to 20 years, here is one place to start looking.
627 2008-07-20 The historic Quapaw Bathhouse, a 1922 spa in the Hot Springs National Park in Arkansas, is reopening this month after a major renovation. The Spanish Colonial Revival building, part of a National Historic Landmark District, closed in 1984.

The 24,000-square-foot bathhouse features a mosaic-covered dome with a copper cupola, and includes four thermal pools, seven two-person tubs, eight therapy rooms and a snack bar.

General admission to the pool area will be $15. Reservations: (501) 609-9822 or www.quapawbaths.com.
628 2008-07-20 The plan for that day was to ride 60 miles southwest, to the trading outpost of Cai Be. But none of the roads leading from Thu Thua were marked, so we ended up riding an Escher loop back through town. Three laps later, we decided to stop at a roadside cafe where the owner, a kindly middle-aged woman in a flowery green pantsuit, drew us a map accompanied by directions written in Vietnamese.

Soon, we were high-wheeling along a levee that weaved past open-air houses, convenience stores and bamboo cafes on stilts along the shoulder. Schoolchildren on clunky three-speeds eyed our featherweight aluminum frames and sleek helmets. Everywhere we looked, rice farmers plodded behind water buffaloes in the lush paddies.

Four hours and 40 miles later, twilight approached and the green hue morphed into a dull orange. Our stomachs were rumbling, so we stopped 20 miles short of Cai Be, at a tumbledown roadside cafe built onto the side of a house. A glass case displayed freshly sliced vegetables, herbs and 17 varieties of fruit-flavored soda.

The owner brought us two banh mi chay tofu sandwiches stacked with hot peppers, coriander and pickled carrots. By the time we finished, it was dark outside. The owner, a young father of four, invited us to camp on the cafe floor. Since there wasn’t a hotel for miles, we accepted and soon fell asleep to the sound of cartoons blaring on a TV.

In the morning, the father sent us off with highballs of thick, black Vietnamese coffee cut with condensed milk. Buzzed on caffeine, we planned to make up for lost time and ride through Cai Be, until we reached the hub city of Can Tho. We pedaled hard past a shipyard assembling halves of a 60-foot steel junk, a rice mill loading burlap sacks onto a barge, and an enormous Stalinist sculpture of three workers’ fists thrust in the air.

An hour later, we recognized the floating market of Cai Be, made up of a dozen wholesalers hawking sugar cane, rice, fruit and vegetables from boats floating in the Tien River, one of the branches of the Mekong. Buyers circled the boats in sampans, inspecting the goods displayed on tall wooden poles.

To continue our trek, we needed to find someone willing to ferry us and our bikes across the Tien River to the city of Vinh Long. It took us half an hour, but we finally found a teenager in a Samsung jersey who agreed to do it for 650,000 dong, about $36 at 17,600 dong to the dollar. After spending the past 36 hours essentially riding blindfolded, we were happy to hop aboard his 14-foot sampan and watch him navigate the 12th largest river in the world.

The Mekong flows about 2,600 miles from its headwaters in Tibet before diffusing into the delta. The Vietnamese call the river Cuu Long, or Nine Dragons, referring to the nine rivers it splits into. It took two hours for our teenage skipper to cross the Mekong and dock in Vinh Long. There, we caught a bus — bikes on the roof — to Can Tho, the delta’s commercial center, before rolling into the whitewashed facade of the Victoria Can Tho Resort just after sunset.

Victoria hotels are an institution in Vietnam and Cambodia. The Can Tho hotel was built in 1998, but its teak balustrades, hardwood floors and bamboo ceiling fans evoked a Rudyard Kipling poem. Staff members quickly snatched our muddy bikes at the check-in counter and produced hot towels for us to wipe down with.

The following morning, a dapper concierge mapped the remainder of the route across the delta. We spent the next two days following his handwritten directions along the 100-mile ride to the ocean.

The southwestern region of the delta is known as Vietnam’s rice basket, and for 10 hours a day we cruised past endless green rice paddies. Workers in conical bamboo hats waved as we rode by, and every 20 miles or so there was a graveyard for soldiers from the war.

On the final morning, modern Vietnam re-emerged when we left the provincial capital of Vi Thanh to make the 70-mile push to Rach Gia, a seedy port town on the Gulf of Thailand. We hoped to catch a ferry to the white sand island of Phu Quoc, but the last ferry was scheduled to leave at 3 p.m.

As the red-and-white mile markers to Rach Gia ticked down, the scenery quickly changed from rice paddies to industrial chaos. Thousands of mopeds, transport trucks and tour buses clogged the highway. Sunglasses vendors hailed from the soft shoulder, then DVD hawkers, T-shirt salesmen and children hustling 12-volt batteries.

Somehow, we made it to the ferry five minutes before departure, and collapsed on the stern deck, still in our biking clothes. A German couple sat next to us and struck up a conversation. They said they had just come from a package tour of Hoi An and Ho Chi Minh City and asked where we’d been. We answered that we had no idea, but that it was somewhere deep in the Mekong Delta.

VeloAsia (888-833-4533; www.veloasia.com), based in San Francisco, has been leading trips in Vietnam since 1992 and offers a three-day tour across the delta for about $700 a person. Price includes rental bikes and two nights at the Victoria Can Tho Resort.

Spice Roads (66-2-712-5305; www.spiceroads.com), based in Bangkok, leads four-day trips across the delta, starting at $490 a person. The 105-mile ride includes a tour of floating markets, orchards and Khmer Vietnam. Air-conditioned buses follow with gear; rental bikes and two nights at a hotel are included.

These hotels state their prices in dollars.

The Saigon Park Hyatt (2 Lam Son Square, District 1; 84-8-824-1234; www.saigon.park.hyatt.com) offers imperial-era elegance, with 252 rooms starting at $320. In the heart of the chic Dong Khoi neighborhood, near Ho Chi Minh City’s main shopping center and the Saigon River promenade.

The Victoria Can Tho Resort (Cai Khe Ward; 84-7-1081-0111; www.victoriahotels-asia.com) sits on the shores of the Mekong River and is the only luxury hotel in the delta’s interior. Rooms start at $118 for a double and include a European breakfast buffet. The staff can arrange tours of floating markets and island orchards by boat.
629 2008-07-20 WEISS--Anne S., 94. Beloved: wife of the late Fred Weiss, mother of Joan Berkowitz (Ira), grandchildren Dara and Justin, sister Frances Shames, brother Sidney J. Shames and wife Betty, brother Harold Shames and wife Elaine, grand-nephews and niece...
630 2008-07-21 Asked if he would be willing to serve as vice president, Mayor Michael Bloomberg demurred. But he did offer an ardent defense of free trade....
631 2008-07-21 Apple says it will have a new product in the coming months, as it warns investors that its profit margins will shrink because of lower prices. What price and what product, however, was shrouded in the usual iMystery....
632 2008-07-21 The Republican nominee's submission of an Op-Ed article gets rejected, with caveats for future publication....
633 2008-07-21 The Republican candidate slams his opponent while meeting with President No. 41 at his Maine retreat....
634 2008-07-21 Analysts and investors on Monday tried to gauge what Yahoo's truce with Carl Icahn meant for the fate of the Web company. Some said the odds of a sale to Microsoft had decreased, but others argued that the settlement may have merely delayed a Yaho...
635 2008-07-21 The ad points out that Senator McCain supports offshore oil exploration while Senator Obama opposes it....
636 2008-07-21 Is Yahoo's Microsoft premium evaporating? Shares of Yahoo were down about 2.4 percent Monday after the Web portal announced a settlement with Carl Icahn that would end a bruising proxy fight. The stock decline suggested that, with Mr. Icahn and hi...
637 2008-07-21 VoteGopher, a site run by Harvard students, has been revised and updated for the general election....
638 2008-07-21 Are Maliki's comments a sign of a stronger Iraqi government?...
639 2008-07-21 Investors in Britain's biggest home lender, HBOS, subscribed to just 8.3 percent of shares in its 4 billion pound ($8 billion) rights issue, leaving underwriters to try to sell almost 3.8 billion pounds of stock. HBOS, the latest bank in the Unite...
640 2008-07-21 More of your "late night" jokes (send via the comment ink below): In his final sermon at the World Youth Day festival in Australia, Pope Benedict XVI challenged young people to fight against materialism. This came as a big disappointment to the th...
641 2008-07-21 > A 30-acre estate in Greenwich, Conn. will be auctioned off next month in what is touted as "the largest residential sealed-bid sale" in the United States. Hillcrest Estate features a five-year-old 26,000-square-foot "manor house," two "carriage ...
642 2008-07-21 Lewis Hamilton won the German Grand Prix in Hockenheim with two dramatic passes that made up for a strategic blunder by his McLaren team, solidifying his lead in the Formula One standings. Hamilton overtook Ferrari’s Felipe Massa, then the runner-up Nelson Piquet Jr. of Renault at the same hairpin after a crash involving Timo Glock brought out a safety car that nearly cost Hamilton his fourth victory of the season.
643 2008-07-21 Neither government appears to want a war, and there were plans for the countries’ defense ministers to talk Monday.

The conflict comes at a delicate time for both countries. Thailand has its slow-burning political crisis, and nationalism is looming as a factor in Cambodia’s general election next Sunday as well.

But in Bangkok, political damage has already been done: the resignation of a cabinet minister, a censure debate in Parliament and accusations of national betrayal have further weakened a shaky, ineffective government.

“The Democrats have used this quite dishonestly to get at the current government,” said Chris Baker, a British historian of Thailand, speaking of the main opposition party. “This of course is a very dangerous game. A troop buildup is a very dangerous game. It’s a very stupid way for Thailand to deal with an important neighbor.”

Sovereignty is a volatile issue in a region where dominance has shifted over the centuries among empires in what are now Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. “The dark side of nationalism is as dangerous as ever,” said Thongchai Winichakul, a historian and the author of “Siam Mapped: A History of the Geo-Body of a Nation” (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1994).

Cambodia, which has been annexed throughout history by its neighbors on both its eastern and its western borders, is particularly sensitive, and its temples are a source of national pride. They symbolize its last period of greatness, under the Angkorean kings, which ended with a Thai invasion in the 15th century.

Just five years ago, mobs in Cambodia burned down the Thai Embassy because of rumors that a Thai actress had claimed Thai sovereignty over Cambodia’s greatest temple, Angkor Wat.

The catalyst of today’s confrontation seemed mild enough: the naming of the Preah Vihear temple as a World Heritage Site, a designation that is meant to preserve historical monuments, not to call out armed soldiers.

The temple, built between the 9th and 11th centuries, is unlike any other. It is an ornate, sagging ruin of broken pillars and sweeping roofs that stands alone on a finger of rock, high above the forests of the Dangrek Mountains. It was consecrated to the Hindu god Shiva when it was built, but, like other temples in the Angkorean period, was converted to Buddhist use.

Questions of sovereignty are complicated by the temple’s location at the top of a 1,640-foot cliff. It is almost inaccessible from Cambodia, but it is reachable through Thailand by a comfortable drive over a paved road.

On June 17, Unesco placed the temple on its list of protected monuments, or World Heritage sites. It was responding to a bid from Cambodia that included a disputed map drawn up by French colonial rulers in 1907.

Legally, the temple has belonged to Cambodia since 1962, after a ruling by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The French had left Indochina seven years before, and the temple had been occupied in the interim by Thai soldiers.

The Thais were forced to withdraw, and the court’s decision has rankled in Thailand ever since. The validity of the French map and the court’s logic have been questioned, and the focus is now on 1.8 square miles around the temple that were not specifically covered in the ruling.

In a strangely passive response last month, the Thai government failed to insist on joining Cambodia as a bidder for the Unesco designation and signed off on the questionable map that Cambodia presented.

This was fuel enough for the Thai opposition, which says, without presenting evidence, that a backroom deal had been struck and that the man behind it was the country’s most prominent wheeler-dealer, former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.

Mr. Thaksin, who was deposed in a coup in 2006, remains influential in business and politics, and has financial interests in Cambodia. The man who let Cambodia’s bid slip through — and who was forced to resign as a result — was Foreign Minister Noppadon Pattama, once Mr. Thaksin’s personal lawyer.

The embattled prime minister, Mr. Samak, is also seen by his critics as Mr. Thaksin’s proxy, and, under pressure from the opposition, he has begun talking tough. Having earlier called the nationalist protesters crazy, Mr. Samak sounded a nationalist note on Friday, saying that the Cambodian presence at the temple “is a continued violation of Thailand’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”

The Dangrek mountain range and the high plains in Thailand that lie beyond it are home to dozens of lesser temples in Khmer style, including two in Thailand that Cambodia laid claim to in 2003. Experts say there are 15 more overlapping locations along the nations’ 500-mile border that need to be resolved.

But Preah Vihear, in its majesty and geographical ambiguity, has been the symbol for both sides’ claims of dominance. “The Preah Vihear temple is part of a wounded history of Thailand and Cambodia,” said Charnvit Kasetsiri, a historian Thammasat University in Bangkok.

That history — as the troops and heavy weapons deployed at the temple show — has not yet receded into the past.
644 2008-07-21 A question Dr. Kim often fields from friends and associates is, “How does that make money?” He answered the question in an entry on his personal blog last month. It can all be “boiled down to one simple accomplishment: building traffic,” he wrote. “That’s it. If you have a site that attracts a lot of visitors, you will be able to make money. On the Internet, traffic equals power, which subsequently equals money.”

When Dr. Kim, who lives just outside Richmond, Va., began blogging about Apple in 2000, the word blog had not entered the lexicon. Creating anything beyond a bare-bones Web site required programming skills and tech knowledge. Dr. Kim, a computer science major at Columbia University, had the know-how. He also knew that almost everyone enjoys an advance look at future products.

He envisioned MacRumors as an aggregator of all the rumors and hints that appeared on message boards and other Web sites. “The rumor reports have probably been more right than wrong over the years,“ he said.

Given Apple’s penchant for secrecy, the company inspires a lot of speculation in the technology industry. Apple enthusiasts dissect every product rumor the way political pundits do political sound bites.

As one of the original Web sites about Apple, MacRumors was well positioned to become a destination for users and a clearinghouse for gossip. MacRumors “knows more about Apple than Apple management does,” the blog 24/7 Wall St. declared last spring.

The site placed MacRumors No. 2 on a list of the “25 most valuable blogs,” right behind Gawker Media and ahead of The Huffington Post, PerezHilton.com, and TechCrunch. Two of the other tech-oriented blogs on its list, Ars Technica and PaidContent, were sold earlier this year, reportedly for sums in excess of $25 million.

Ars Technica reaches an estimated three million people a month, according to Quantcast. PaidContent and its three associated blogs reach about half a million people, but earn additional revenue through conferences and seminars. Since MacRumors attracts a far larger audience, those valuations would suggest Dr. Kim has created a very valuable piece of Web real estate.

Dr. Kim is not a millionaire blogger yet, and given the slumping online advertising market, he faces some hurdles as he expands the site. But he has reason to be optimistic.

Stepping away from medicine felt somewhat strange, he admits. Dr. Kim was bringing home a six-figure income as a doctor, but he recognized that blogging was becoming more lucrative. He says the site also yields a six-figure income for him.

About three years ago, through a combination of Google text advertising, banner ads and commissions on product sales, MacRumors started turning a substantial profit. While Apple is obviously not an advertiser, other technology-oriented companies are, including Verizon, the online audio-book store Audible.com and the information technology products company CDW.

Still, he hesitated to make it a full-time job because he enjoyed medicine — and he had invested almost $200,000 in his education. But he finally concluded that “on paper, it was an easy decision.” He also had a practical reason for wanting the ability to work from home. Her name is Penelope, and she is 14 months old.

When he told his father, also a doctor, about the decision, Dr. Kim was pleased that “he was very supportive of it, which was sort of surprising to me.”

For Dr. Kim, figuring out which rumors are real and which are mere dreams is the fun part.

“It is sort of a gut feeling,” he acknowledged, adding that most of the images of future Apple products that circulate on message boards are fakes. Sometimes he will post suspicious images with a caveat about their authenticity.

On one memorable occasion, he said, Apple accidentally raised the curtain on a new Mac on its Web site a week ahead of the official announcement, leading to a free-for-all on MacRumors’ message boards and some urgent phone calls from the company.

Dr. Kim has worked in relative anonymity. For many years, readers knew him only by his user name, “arn.” (“If I really wanted to hide, I could have done a better job,” he said. He eventually added his full name so he could receive media credentials for conferences.)

Dr. Kim is branching out beyond MacRumors. He helps run a spinoff Web site, Touch Arcade, that tracks the new games available for the iPhone and iPod Touch. But he is remaining coy about his other expansion plans. Apple, it seems, is not the only company trying to keep secrets.
645 2008-07-21 IN a city known for paralyzing bureaucratic turf fights, one of the most debilitating and potentially disastrous has received scant attention: it’s the Congressional mess that produces tangled homeland security laws. This tangle obstructs our ability to prioritize risks at the , where I work alongside more than 200,000 colleagues, almost all of us civil servants (not political appointees) who will remain in place after the election.

Congressional committees can help expose and remedy bureaucratic and partisan biases, but in this case these committees are the source of the problem, with both political parties contributing equally to the mess. Regardless of which party wins in November, the homeland security turf fight has to be brought under control so that the department can more effectively confront security risks.

Congress created the Department of Homeland Security in 2002, bringing together more than 20 separate agencies. This consolidation, however, was not matched by a parallel consolidation of the Congressional committees that authorize department programs. Roughly 80 committees and subcommittees oversee the Department of Homeland Security and its subcomponents. By way of comparison, the Department of Defense works primarily with four committees.

To appreciate the challenge we face, it is important to remember that the Sept. 11 terrorist attack was a classic “low-probability, high-consequence” event. In the pre-9/11 era, if experts had generated a list of risks to our country — various terrorist attacks, , contagious diseases and so on — they probably would have concluded that terrorists flying planes into skyscrapers and government buildings was unlikely, in light of the security and logistical obstacles the terrorists would have to overcome. While those experts would have acknowledged that such an attack would have grave results, before 9/11, relatively few people worried about such low-probability, high-consequence security events. After 9/11, however, many people began thinking about a broad range of such attacks.

Not surprisingly, when people started to focus on bad things that might happen to us, they identified a seemingly infinite catalogue of worrisome possibilities: nuclear, chemical and biological terrorist attacks delivered by planes, ships, cars or other mechanisms; conventional explosives on mass transit systems; gunmen in public places; cyber attacks on computer and communication networks; and natural hazards like earthquakes and hurricanes. This is just a sliver of the ever-evolving list of homeland security concerns.

But resources are limited and it’s not possible to do everything, so we need to think carefully about the risk: the likelihood of the event and the consequences if it were to occur. Ideally, we would be able to rationally rank homeland security risks, and resources would follow. Though some prioritizing efforts are under way, the process has been made unnecessarily difficult.
646 2008-07-21 “What’s Next in the Law? The Unalienable Rights of Chimps,” by Adam Cohen (Editorial Observer, July 14), unfairly characterized PETA’s efforts.

Few people know the depth of our work, as it is mostly our stunts that make the news. While cruelty to animals is a serious matter that should elicit widespread public outrage, efforts to reach the public through more serious means often fall on deaf ears in a world in which sex sells and there are both a war and an economic downturn.

By comparing the common mind-set that has produced both the past injustices against humans and the current abuses of animals, we can and do inspire debate and convince many people that it is a human obligation to speak out against injustice to all beings.

Animal suffering and human suffering are undeniably interconnected. In 2004, for example, The New York Times broke the story about a PETA undercover investigation that found routine animal abuse at AgriProcessors kosher slaughterhouse. Since then, the paper has repeatedly reported on the abuse of migrant workers at AgriProcessors. It should come as no surprise that a facility that profits from tormenting and killing animals would also oppress and abuse humans.

Those of us who have worked in the field as social service staff members or humane law enforcement officers know that child abuse and animal abuse as well as battered women and battered companion animals are often found under the same roof.

Forgive us our bikinis and our shock tactics, but our message that all beings — both human and nonhuman — deserve compassion and respect is one that we must work hard to make heard.
647 2008-07-21 It has taken a man of God, perhaps, to do what nobody else has been able to do since the general election season began: Get Barack Obama and John McCain together on the same stage before their party conventions later this summer.

The Rev. Rick Warren has persuaded the candidates to attend a forum at his Saddleback Church, in Lake Forest, Calif., on Aug. 16. In an interview, Mr. Warren said over the weekend that the presidential candidates would appear together for a moment but that he would interview them in succession at his megachurch.

Word of the forum came as a leading conservative Christian, James C. Dobson, signaled that he might reverse his position and endorse Mr. McCain, The Associated Press reported.

“I never thought I would hear myself saying this,” Mr. Dobson, chairman of Focus on the Family, said for radio broadcast on Monday. “While I am not endorsing Senator John McCain, the possibility is there that I might.”

The forum still falls short of the kind of face-to-face, town-hall-style debates that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has called for this summer before formal debates scheduled for this fall.
648 2008-07-21 “He was looked upon as the magic ingredient in any legislative deal; the addition of John McCain was going to greatly improve its chances of success,” said Ross K. Baker, a Rutgers University political scientist who studies the Senate.

Former Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader until 2004, agreed. With the possible exception of the two party leaders, he said, “I can’t think of many senators more influential.” Mr. Daschle said that Mr. McCain’s power easily surpassed that of Mr. Lott’s successor as leader, Bill Frist, because many senators discounted Mr. Frist as the White House’s agent.

To partisans on either side, Mr. McCain’s path could be puzzling, even infuriating. On the defining issue of the Iraq war, he hammered both sides: the White House for its execution of the conflict and the Democrats for their opposition. On immigration, he joined the Democrats and the White House to battle his own party. And to the Republican leaders, he was a serial turncoat on other domestic matters, marching at the head of a Democratic column into fights over tax cuts, campaign finance restrictions, Alaskan oil drilling, access to generic drugs, gun-show sales, pollution caps, the 9/11 commission and the use of torture.

“I returned to the Senate with greater influence than before I ran, and I used that influence to work with senators on both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McCain said in an e-mail message. “I don’t believe in hoarding political capital just for the sake of possessing it.”

Now his Senate record itself is up for debate in the presidential race. Mr. McCain’s supporters argue that he demonstrated the kind of bipartisan bridge-building that his Democratic rival for president, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, has often pledged but seldom displayed. Democrats counter that Mr. McCain, of Arizona, was a fickle gadfly who ultimately traded his independence to pander to the right, in particular by pledging this year to retain tax cuts he once faulted as favors to the rich.

“You couldn’t tell which John McCain would come to work on any given day,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, a Democrat close to Mr. Obama.

Mr. McCain’s friends say his record reflects his singular personality — a reverence for principle and a willingness to change, a drive to solve problems and an impulse for mischief. But they agree that a very different John McCain returned from his first presidential race to become a central player in almost every high-profile debate of the Bush administration.

“John McCain prior to 2000 would not be known for his legislative skills or achievements,” said John Weaver, a former McCain adviser. “He voted with his party, and people ran to him on national security. But being the swing guy after 2000, he knew his turf was valuable, and he could use it to achieve things.”

He learned how to play the game, said Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska. “He is a lot more savvy than a lot of people realize — targeted, tactical, strategic — and sometimes only he knows what his real objective is,” Mr. Nelson said.

Mr. McCain, 71, acquired the sobriquet “maverick” about a decade ago. When he was first elected to the Senate in 1986, after two terms in the House, he was in the mainstream of his party. He even made a credible, though unsuccessful, run for a party leadership post.

But his popularity did not last. First, there was his “truculent nature,” as he calls it. His Republican colleagues call him aggressive, brusque and abrasive. He later adopted the habit of publicly scolding other senators about their special privileges, from pet spending projects to airport parking spots. What Mr. Lott called his “cuddling up” to the Democrats has further strained Mr. McCain’s relations with Republicans.

“I suppose over the last 10 years he has passed more significant legislation than any senator around,” said Senator Judd Gregg, a conservative New Hampshire Republican frequently at odds with Mr. McCain. “But that doesn’t necessarily entail being liked.”

Some call him aloof. Former Senator Lincoln Chafee, a soft-spoken Rhode Island Republican, said, “I always imagined that I was the plebe and he was the senior at the Naval Academy: you knew your rank and you were supposed to respect that.” (Mr. Chafee is now supporting Mr. Obama.)

But his heroism as a prisoner of war in Vietnam has given Mr. McCain a special prestige, and he has made a point of cultivating junior members in the Senate, whether Democrats like Russ Feingold of Wisconsin or Republicans like Susan Collins of Maine, unaccustomed to the attention of a senior lawmaker. “He is smart enough to know that in the Senate every vote counts the same,” said Ms. Collins, now a close friend.

Before the 2008 campaign heated up, Mr. McCain would go to dinner about twice a month in Washington — he favors spicy Vietnamese food, the movie “Borat” and trading jokes about colleagues — with a small group of Republicans that included Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Senator Michael DeWine of Ohio and the actor and former Senator Fred D. Thompson (who briefly jumped into this year’s Republican primaries himself). Entertaining guests at his property in Sedona, Ariz., he invariably drags them for long walks to indulge his passion for bird watching. “If you took all the people at Gitmo, put them in the cabin for a weekend and made them listen to John talk about the birds, they would all spill their guts,” Mr. Graham said.

Mr. McCain’s friends say his ideology has always been ad hoc — limited-government conservative by default, but open to expanding government authority if the goal seemed important. But aside from pushing various campaign finance overhauls, he was a reliable Reaganite until around 1998 — his first big break from his party — when the Republican leaders chose him to negotiate a bill that would address tobacco lawsuits and finance public health programs.

As conservatives outmaneuvered him on the floor, Mr. McCain lashed out at his fellow Republicans, accusing them of turning a cold shoulder to children’s health. The Democrats rose in a standing ovation.

Three years later — the Monday after President Bush’s first inauguration — Mr. McCain held a news conference that amounted to a declaration of his independence from either political party.

He would respect the new president’s agenda, but not because he was a Republican, Mr. McCain said. He would have respected a Democrat’s just as much. “But,” he added, “I also have a mandate.”

He returned from the 2000 campaign full of new motivations. Although he had spent 18 years in Congress, Mr. McCain’s advisers say the campaign was his first face-to-face confrontation with domestic issues like global warming and health insurance costs.

“He had been in the Navy or the Senate his whole career, and he hadn’t had a lot of chance to get out there and find out what the American people are thinking,” said former Senator Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire, who said he had watched Mr. McCain revise his views as he moved through scores of town-hall-style meetings.

Mr. McCain’s assessment of his political prospects had changed, too. The 2000 Republican primary had cemented Mr. McCain’s maverick image. He had made overhauling campaign finance the cornerstone of his campaign and started attacking upper-income tax cuts, corporate greed and Christian conservatives. Returning to the Senate, Mr. McCain wondered if he had alienated his former base.

John Zogby, a pollster Mr. McCain often consults, told him that the race had inverted his political profile: Democrats and independents liked him more than Republicans did. But he was also one of the most popular politicians in the country, and his biography as a war hero had kept a solid floor under his conservative support.

“It suggested that he would be able to finesse conservatives,” Mr. Zogby recalled in an interview. He told Mr. McCain that continuing to buck his party would be “very astute.” (The 2008 primary was a close call, but Mr. Zogby argues that he was vindicated: Mr. McCain won.)

Mr. McCain needed little encouragement. He still smoldered over what he considered the dirty 2000 primary, especially the slander campaign he believed had been waged against him. He had been liberated from party loyalty, Mr. Graham said.

“There was almost a sense of freedom,” Mr. Graham said. “It reinforced his impulse: I am going to be me.”

Mr. McCain’s friends say the senator has always been drawn toward conflict. On Senate breaks, one of his favorite pastimes is official travel to war zones. Within days of returning from a trip to Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. McCain rushed up to tell Ms. Collins, “Did you see there is still trouble in Sudan? We need to go there next!” she recalled.

Mr. Graham said, imitating Mr. McCain’s husky, hurried voice, “If there is a ‘500 people killed in government protests’ article in the paper, John will always call me up: ‘We need to go there! Sounds like it’s interesting!’ ”

Now a similar impulse drew Mr. McCain into Senate battles as well, Mr. Graham said. “The man will run across the street to get in a good fight,” he said.

Mr. McCain wasted no time. For most of his career, he had kept his distance from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, wary of his record of pulling Republicans into grand compromises. “I have watched other people fall under that guy’s sway, but I am not going to,” Mr. McCain used to tell his aides, recalled Mark Salter, his chief of staff.

After the 2000 election, however, Mr. McCain pulled up a chair at Mr. Kennedy’s desk near the back of the Senate floor. “Ted,” Mr. McCain said, according to a Kennedy aide present, “patients’ bill of rights, I want to work with you.”

Mr. McCain had opposed the proposals, which would make it easier for patients to sue insurers, and the White House promised a veto. But soon he was huddling with Mr. Kennedy and the bill’s other sponsor, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, each morning, plotting strategy.

“He would say, ‘O.K., this guy in my caucus is a lawyer and he is going to say this. Who do we got that is a lawyer to talk to him?” Mr. Salter said. “ ‘Who do we got? Who do we got?’ It is like laying out a battle plan.” When the bill passed with nine Republican votes, Democrats credited Mr. McCain. (The measure died in conference with the House, though.)

Soon he was cooperating with the Democrats on so many issues that he made a habit of stopping by Mr. Daschle’s office “to tell me what was going on in his caucus, give me advice, give me reports on a lot of the things he was working on, how the negotiations were going,” Mr. Daschle said. “Of all the Republicans with whom I worked, he was the most cooperative.”

When Mr. Daschle and Mr. Kennedy tried to persuade Mr. McCain to switch parties, Mr. McCain listened and his advisers spread the word around. Speculation about whether he would defect increased his leverage with Republican leaders.

Mr. McCain collected on debts earned during the election, too. He refused to stump for Republicans unless they agreed to support his “reform agenda,” and he boasted that his unwillingness to campaign for Senator Slade Gorton of Washington contributed to his narrow loss in 2000.

After their rapprochement, Mr. Lott often began supporting Mr. McCain, too: on a campaign finance rule, during the immigration debate and in criticizing Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the defense secretary. “When people looked up and saw those two working together, a lot of them were shocked,” Mr. DeWine said.

Other times, however, Mr. McCain used his bipartisan appeal to put pressure on his Democratic friends on behalf of the White House. “He was a tremendous resource,” said Nicholas E. Calio, a former White House legislative liaison to the Senate, adding that Mr. McCain helped round up Democratic votes for trade agreements, domestic security measures and the Iraq war.

Mr. McCain lobbied his Democratic friends to vote to authorize the invasion, even berating them, several Democrats said. “He was very forceful,” said former Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida. “He told me the issue was over: ‘We ought to get on with the vote, stop this meaningless pontification.’ ”

When Mr. McCain campaigned for President Bush’s re-election in 2004, Democrats accused him of hypocrisy. “After what happened to him eight years ago and some of the statements he made, I couldn’t quite understand the things he was doing, the appearances he was making with the president,” Mr. Durbin said.

But Mr. McCain was still a frequent impediment to the White House. In 2005 and 2006, for example, he spearheaded battles to prod the administration to sign laws banning the use of torture on military detainees. His talks with Vice President Dick Cheney on the subject degenerated into shouting matches, aides on both sides say. He felt that negotiating about torture with Mr. Cheney “was like negotiating bank reform with Bonnie and Clyde,” Mr. Weaver, the former McCain adviser, said.

Other times, Mr. McCain worked behind the scenes. In 2005, Mr. Frist, then the Republican leader, staked his reputation on a standoff with Senate Democrats over several of the president’s judicial nominees that escalated into threats about rewriting Senate rules or shutting down all debate.

Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Lott publicly supported Mr. Frist. But both also had an interest in his failure, Mr. McCain because Mr. Frist was a potential presidential rival and Mr. Lott because he had taken his leadership post.

Mr. McCain, who had never taken much interest in judicial confirmations or Senate traditions, set out to lead a bipartisan group that could find middle ground. Participating risked the wrath of partisans and interest groups on either side, and the senators involved pledged confidentiality.

But several now say that the Democrats involved negotiated on behalf of their leaders, and that the Republicans, including Mr. McCain, worked against Mr. Frist.

Mr. Lott publicly disavowed the effort. But he helped recruit some Republican allies to complete the group, and helped fashion the ultimate deal, according to several involved.

The group, dubbed the Gang of 14, emerged from Mr. McCain’s office with a deal to confirm some of the judges and stop Mr. Frist from rewriting the rules. Editorials across the country hailed Mr. McCain as a champion of bipartisanship and moderation. And political analysts began to write off Mr. Frist.

Mr. Lott, who declined to comment about his role in the Frist episode and the details of the 2000 race, commended Mr. McCain. “I don’t want to call it Machiavellian, but it was quite a snooker play,” he said.

Mr. Weaver was more grandiose. “Lyndon Johnson would be proud of that move,” he said.
649 2008-07-21 A GLOBAL RESCUE Overseas investors hold a significant percentage of securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and their fate may test the world's faith in American investments.      OLYMPIC COVERAGE NBC, which paid $900 million to broadcast...
650 2008-07-22 The Art Commission, which is really a design review commission, gets a new name befitting its role....
651 2008-07-22 Also in the Morning Buzz: a Japanese delegation to Green-Wood Cemetery, a long-closed drug store in Carroll Gardens and more headlines from local papers....
652 2008-07-22 Up Next in Style
653 2008-07-22 TiVo's latest DVR enhancement turns the remote control "into a tool for buying the products being advertised and promoted on commercials and talk shows," Brad Stone reports: The company, based in Alviso, Calif., will introduce a "product purchase"...
654 2008-07-22 The McCain campaign says the media has a "love affair" with Barack Obama....
655 2008-07-22 Representative Heather Wilson, speaking for the McCain campaign, said that Mr. McCain would "like troops to come home earlier than 16 months if the conditions allowed it." The campaign quickly walked back the remark, saying it was not a timeline....
656 2008-07-22 A panel of coaches advises a college senior thinking about entry-level jobs in investment banking and management consulting....
657 2008-07-22 Microsoft is said to be starting an expensive campaign to reassure consumers that its Vista operating system isn't all that bad....
658 2008-07-22 Stephanie Clifford reports on product placements on local TV newscasts: In recent weeks, anchors on the Fox affiliate in Las Vegas, KVVU, sit with cups of McDonald's iced coffee on their desks during the news-and-lifestyle portion of their morning...
659 2008-07-22 The C.E.O. of USA Track and Field issues a sharply worded letter asking that President Bush deny Marion Jones's request for a commutation....
660 2008-07-22 Has Jerry Yang, Yahoo's embattled chief executive, played a part in picking his own successor? As part of the deal Yahoo reached with activist investor Carl C. Icahn to end a bruising and acrimonious fight for control of the company, one of three ...
661 2008-07-22 Wachovia on Tuesday reported a $8.9 billion loss for the second quarter and slashed its stock dividend to 5 cents per share from 37.5 cents, as the giant lender continued to suffer from the crisis in the credit markets and the hangover from its il...
662 2008-07-22 Has HBOS ruined it for the rest of them? After a rights issue by Britain's largest mortgage lender flopped Monday, industry watchers were predicting that the tepid response would wind up making it more difficult and costly for other banks to raise...
663 2008-07-22 HBOS' woes may have reaped hedge funds with short positions in the lender more than 1 billion pounds ($2 billion), The Independent estimated. Several high-profile hedge funds, including Harbinger Capital and Lansdowne Partners, have announced posi...
664 2008-07-22 Russia's migration service said Monday that Robert Dudley, the British chief executive of TNK-BP, was not allowed to work in Russia under his temporary visa. That was seen as increasing the chances that the joint venture's co-owners, most of whom ...
665 2008-07-22 Portugal’s public prosecutor closed the investigation into the disappearance of Madeleine McCann, 3, saying that there was no evidence against her parents and a third person who had been considered suspects. The prosecutor, Fernando Pinto Monteiro, said that the parents, Gerry and Kate McCann, and Robert Murat, who lived in the same resort in southern Portugal where Madeleine vanished, had been cleared. The case could be reopened if new evidence is discovered, the prosecutor said. Madeleine disappeared from a bedroom in her family’s vacation apartment in Praia da Luz on May 3, 2007.
666 2008-07-22 Sos Cuetara, a Spanish bottler of olive oil, agreed to buy oil brands, including the market leaders Bertolli and Dante, from Unilever for 630 million euros ($1 billion). Sos Cuetara, based in Madrid, gains labels that have about one-third of their sales in the Americas as it tries to reduce dependence on Europe. Bertolli, founded in Tuscany in 1865, is the world’s biggest brand of olive oil, followed by Dante and Sos Cuetara’s Sasso, according to Unilever, which has headquarters in London and Rotterdam. The acquired assets generated 380 million euros in sales last year, compared with Sos Cuetara’s 1.4 billion euros of annual revenue.
667 2008-07-22 Citigroup’s investment banking chairman, Michael Klein, will leave the bank, extending a management shake-up after Vikram S. Pandit’s appointment as chief executive in December.

Mr. Klein, 44, is leaving to “pursue other opportunities,” Citigroup said Monday in a statement. He was co-chief of the bank’s trading and investment banking division for 10 months starting in May 2007. In March, Mr. Pandit named him chairman of the division, where he was sidelined from day-to-day management and reassigned to a senior client advisory role.

Mr. Pandit, a former Morgan Stanley investment banker who succeeded Charles O. Prince III, has been reconfiguring the bank after almost $55 billion of write-downs and losses linked to the collapse of the subprime mortgage market. When he reassigned Mr. Klein, Mr. Pandit installed a longtime colleague, John Havens, to oversee the trading and investment banking division.

Citigroup posted a smaller-than-estimated $2.5 billion loss on Friday, and the bank’s shares rose 20 percent during the week. Citigroup’s shares rose 34 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $19.69 on Monday on the New York Stock Exchange.

Calls to Mr. Klein’s office and mobile phone were not returned.

In the statement, Mr. Klein said, “It has been particularly important for me to assist the company during this challenging year in the markets and in the management succession at the firm.”

Thomas Maheras, who served alongside Mr. Klein as co-chief of the trading and investment banking division, stepped down in October 2007, when Citigroup began to suffer losses from the subprime mortgage crisis.
668 2008-07-22 “If there were a story going up, let’s say, God forbid, about a McDonald’s food illness outbreak or something negative about McDonald’s, I would expect that the station would absolutely give us the opportunity to pull our product off set,” said Brent Williams, account supervisor at Karsh/Hagan, the advertising agency that arranged the deal between McDonald’s and KVVU.

If that did not happen, “it might lead to the termination of an agreement” to appear on the show, he said. KVVU, for its part, said it would continue to report truthfully and honestly about McDonald’s. Mr. Bradshaw said the station would remove the cups, just as it would remove spot advertising from a newscast for any advertiser who is the subject of a negative report.

With the economy in rough shape and advertisers funneling more dollars to the Internet, the television industry is trying to increase its revenues. Neither the agency nor KVVU would reveal the price of the six-month deal.

Other stations owned by Meredith — including WFSB, the CBS affiliate in Hartford, Conn., and WGCL, the CBS affiliate in Atlanta — are also accepting product placements on their morning shows.

Arrangements like these are anathema to journalists and media watchdogs. And the broader issue of product placements is under scrutiny at the Federal Communications Commission, which is weighing tighter rules for how sponsorships on TV shows are disclosed.

“Expanding this into news raises very troubling questions,” said Harold Feld, senior vice president for the Media Access Project, a consumer advocacy group. “Viewers, when they see news programs, are expecting to see things that reflect the marriage of the things reported, and do not look in the credits of these programs to see if there’s some small disclaimer that people are being paid for product placements.”

The three major network morning shows, ABC’s “Good Morning America,” CBS’s “The Early Show,” and NBC’s “Today” do not accept fees in exchange for product placement, representatives of the shows said Monday.

“It is against CBS News’s standards to accept money in exchange for product placement on any broadcast, and we do not do so,” Kelli Halyard, a CBS spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail message.

Paul Karpowicz, the president of Meredith Broadcasting Group, said that product placements on his stations were limited to morning news shows.

“If something happens and we have to report something about McDonald’s, we’ll report it,” said Mr. Bradshaw of KVVU. “I would not put product placement into any of my traditional hard newscasts. I would not run it in my 5 p.m. or my 10 p.m.”

He said he was not allowing the McDonald’s cups on the so-called straight news portion of the morning report, which is before 7 a.m., but on a lighter, news-and-lifestyle show that goes from 7 to 9 a.m.

McDonald’s has also placed products on morning news shows on WFLD in Chicago, which is owned and operated by Fox; and on KCPQ in Seattle, a Fox affiliate owned by the Tribune Company, said Danya Proud, a McDonald’s spokeswoman.

Ms. Proud said the promotion was regional rather than national in scope. “This is a way for us to allow our customers to discover our products,” she said. Morning shows, she said, are a natural place to promote coffee drinks.

But what if the reporters sitting in front of McDonald’s products are doing segments about, say, gang violence or outbreaks of tainted food?

“That’s something we’ve taken into account,” said Mr. Williams of Karsh/Hagan, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of Omnicom Group.

“I’m kind of relying, my client is relying, on just the inner workings of that station,” he said. “Not that editorial would ever give a heads-up to sales or be expected to give a heads-up to sales, but these are professionals. They do realize that some businesses’ brands, some businesses’ reputations, could be at stake in terms of how commerce and news are interacting here.”

In 2005, the F.C.C. issued a reminder to broadcasters that they must disclose when they use certain video news releases provided by corporations. The inquiry that the agency opened in June is focused on entertainment shows rather than news, but could easily be broadened.

In June, the Writers Guild of America West sent a letter to the F.C.C. supporting real-time disclosure of product placement and asking for a ban on video news releases on local broadcast television.

“This practice is unbelievably deceptive and is an attempt to trick the viewer to think that a paid advertisement is actually news,” the group’s president, Patric M. Verrone, wrote.

Herbert Jack Rotfeld, a professor of marketing at Auburn University, said that product placement deals on news shows could backfire for both sides. “In the end, they just make the audiences even more skeptical of everything.” he said.
669 2008-07-22 And now, Ms. Rice will meet with Mr. Pak to finalize a phase in a denuclearization agreement less than two years after North Korea tested a nuclear weapon.

The White House maintained on Monday that nothing had changed. When pressed by a reporter on whether Mr. Bush still believed that North Korea and Iran were part of an axis of evil, Dana M. Perino, the White House press secretary, said they were.

“I think that until they give up their nuclear weapons programs completely and verifiably, I think that we would keep them in the same category,” Ms. Perino said.

And Ms. Rice herself, two days after the Geneva talks on Iran, described them as disappointing.

“We expected to hear an answer from the Iranians, but as has been the case so many times with the Iranians, what came through was not serious,” she said aboard her flight to Abu Dhabi for talks before heading to Singapore.

She said that if Iran did not respond in the next two weeks to an offer of incentives, the United States and other major powers would go back to the United Nations Security Council for additional sanctions against Tehran.

America’s European allies and even a few members of the Bush administration have been struck by what they call a zigzag.

A senior administration official described the Iran policy as “erratic,” while a European diplomat said, “It does seem a bit schizophrenic.”

Abbas Milani, an Iran expert at Stanford University who has advised the Bush administration, echoed the sentiment. “I don’t understand what they’re doing,” Mr. Milani said. Ms. Rice’s “provocative acts and words” on Monday could derail any chance that Iran’s leaders might reward the Bush concession on talks by suspending uranium enrichment, he said.

Some foreign policy experts said the multiplying concessions were to be expected in the waning months of any administration. The Reagan administration, for instance, began formal talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization in 1988 during its last months in office, and President Clinton sent Ms. Albright to Pyongyang in late 2000, less than three months before he left office.

But the Bush administration’s concessions are particularly noteworthy because Mr. Bush and his deputies went to great lengths to propound an intellectual and moral doctrine that eschewed talking to foes; Mr. Bush compared such outreach to appeasement just two months ago before the Israeli Parliament.

Some national security hawks have been sharply critical of the latest moves toward Iran and North Korea.

“The metaphor to look at is intellectual collapse,” said John R. Bolton, the Bush administration’s former ambassador to the United Nations. “It’s not even a carefully staged retreat. Instead, it’s just a sign to the Iranians that toward the end of the administration, they’re desperate to sign deals.”

European officials say they have privately been urging the administration for several years now to engage Iran on the nuclear issue.

But some European diplomats questioned the timing of the decision to send Mr. Burns to the Geneva meeting. They said they had little hope that Iranian officials — known for their ability to draw out negotiations for as long as they can — would give the departing Bush administration the concession it was seeking and suspend uranium enrichment. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules.

The furthest Iran will go this year, the diplomats said, is likely to be a “freeze for freeze” proposal, in which it would agree not to enrich uranium beyond current levels, in return for a freeze on sanctions.

But the United States has said repeatedly that it will not accept such a proposal and seeks complete suspension of uranium enrichment.

For the Bush administration to accept the freeze-for-freeze proposal that is currently being floated, European and American diplomats said, would require yet another major concession.
670 2008-07-22 In 1853 Commodore Matthew C. Perry of the United States steered his fleet of “black ships” into the southern end of Tokyo Bay, spelling the end of more than two centuries of Japanese self-imposed isolation.

Three years later, under an appointment from President Franklin Pierce, Townsend Harris became the first American consul-general in Japan, setting up shop in Gyokusenji, a Buddhist temple in Shimoda.

Two years after that, he negotiated a treaty that established trade between the United States and Japan. The next thing you knew, we had imported Toyotas, Hideki Matsui in a Yankees uniform and sushi restaurants every 30 paces in parts of Manhattan.

Harris was “serious and intelligent,” said Peter Grilli, who grew up in Japan and is president of the Japan Society of Boston. “And he must have had just the properly stern mien, or ample whiskers, to face down all the ferocious Shogunal bureaucrats and samurai.”

When Harris died in 1878 at age 74, he was buried on a grassy knoll in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn. A tall granite headstone marks his resting place. Thanks largely to the efforts of Japanese groups and individuals, the site is a pleasant refuge, shaded by dogwood and cherry trees and enhanced by a Japanese stone lantern. A few feet below the headstone lie memorial plaques from City College and from the priests of Gyokusenji.

“We get a lot of people visiting from Japan and also from Townsend Harris High School,” said Ken Taylor, Green-Wood’s vice president for operations.

But as a visit the other day showed, none are as faithful as the people of Shimoda.

A delegation from that city of 26,000 has made a pilgrimage to the cemetery each of the last 23 summers, skipping only 2005, when Brooklyn took a back seat to St. Petersburg, Russia, on an important anniversary in Japanese-Russian relations. It is a consistent display of respect not often seen, especially coming as it does from people who must travel so far.

THIS was the third time for Mayor Ishii, who led a 22-member contingent. Each was given a flower. Two by two, the visitors approached the grave and placed their flowers. Then, for about five seconds, they pressed palms together in a gesture of reverence. No words were spoken. In a matter of minutes, it was over, save for inevitable rounds of picture-taking.

From Green-Wood, the visitors went by charter bus to Harlem, for a lunch with City College’s president, Gregory H. Williams, and other officials.

In the school’s library, Sydney C. Van Nort, the college’s archivist and special-collections librarian, delivered a talk on Harris’s life. She had filled display cases with Harris artifacts that are usually held in storage, items like a diary, documents related to his commission as the American consul, a silk diplomatic pouch and a chart of the Japanese hiragana syllabary.

“Being a medievalist, I can see it in the context of a pilgrimage,” Ms. Van Nort said of the visitors. “They want to see items that he handled and owned. They’re like relics to these people.”

One relic was a 31-star American flag, badly faded after 150 years. It seems that the flag Harris had taken with him from the United States was damaged. In 1858 he had a new one made of silk by a seamstress in Edo, which any crossword puzzle devotee will recognize as Tokyo’s name in those days.

Even back then, Americans depended on things made in Japan.
671 2008-07-22 Wall Street closed modestly lower on Monday as the price of oil regained ground and investors cashed in some gains from the stock market’s rally last week.

Oil rose on concerns that the threat of new sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program might escalate tensions in the Middle East. Light crude rose $2.16, to settle at $131.04 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The rise in oil offset initial market enthusiasm after Bank of America posted results that beat expectations, raising hope that the credit crisis might be easing for the nation’s biggest retail banks. Four of the nation’s five biggest banks have now reported better-than-expected earnings.

Still, “with crude trading up near $130, and a big advance last week, some investors are taking chips off the table,” said James H. Herrick, manager of equity trading at Robert W. Baird & Company.

Shares of the drug makers Merck and Schering-Plough fell after a new study showed their cholesterol drug Vytorin had not met its main goals. The companies also took the unusual step of delaying their second-quarter results until after the closing bell to allow researchers time to present the report.
672 2008-07-22 Hasbro posted a higher-than-expected quarterly profit on Monday, helped by sales of toys tied to movies like the latest “Indiana Jones” film, but the company’s shares fell after it said it would raise prices.

Hasbro’s chief executive, Brian Goldner, said in a conference call that the economic environment in the United States and overseas was “much more challenging” than the company anticipated.

Second-quarter profit jumped to $37.5 million, or 25 cents a share, from $4.8 million, or 3 cents a share, a year earlier, when the company took a charge of $36.5 million, or 21 cents a share, to repurchase warrants from Lucasfilm and Lucas Licensing.

Analysts, on average, expected profit of 22 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.

Hasbro, the No. 2 American toy maker after Mattel, said sales rose 13 percent, to $784.3 million.

American and Canadian sales were up 11 percent, to $467.7 million, while sales in international markets increased 15 percent to $293.7 million, aided by the weak dollar.

Effective Sept. 1, Hasbro, whose brands include Playskool and Littlest Pet Shop, will raise prices in the mid-single digits in percentage terms to protect its margins, said David Hargreaves, chief operating officer and chief financial officer.
673 2008-07-22 “The fact is, if we had done what Senator Obama wanted to do, we would have lost,” Mr. McCain said, speaking against the craggy ocean backdrop and sea gulls of Walker’s Point, the longtime Bush family vacation compound. “And we would have faced a wider war. And we would have had greater problems in Afghanistan and the entire region. And Iran would have increased their influence.” In short, said Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, “he’s been completely wrong on the issue.”

But Mr. McCain, who met privately with the first President Bush for 20 minutes, also appeared to embrace, if only in passing, the possibility of withdrawing most American troops from Iraq by the end of 2010. Asked at the news conference if it was conceivable that enough progress could be made in the next two years so that American troops could be fully withdrawn, Mr. McCain replied, “Oh, I think they could be largely withdrawn, as I’ve said.” Previously, he had envisioned that in a McCain administration, most troops would be out of Iraq by 2013.

Mr. McCain dismissed the notion that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, who in recent days suggested he agreed with Mr. Obama on the idea of withdrawing most American troops by 2010, had undercut Mr. McCain’s opposition to a withdrawal timetable. But Mr. McCain did not explain precisely why he thought he had not been undercut, although he repeated his frequent point that any withdrawal had to be based on conditions on the ground.

At least one voter who listened to Mr. McCain’s remarks at the picnic said she was unhappy about Mr. Obama’s foreign trip. “You’ve got somebody over there who’s trying to appear like he’s won the race,” said Kathy Anderson, 54, a Republican from Scarborough, Me. “It’s very assuming of him to be taking that role.”

Although Maine is considered a likely battleground state in November, it has only four electoral votes, and the choice of the former president’s summer house as a campaign stop for Mr. McCain was a curious one during a week when Mr. Obama is commanding so much attention. But the choice appeared in part driven by fund-raising. The first President Bush and the former first lady, Barbara Bush, opened their large shingled home on a dramatic promontory in the Atlantic Ocean for a brunch and tour for contributors to Mr. McCain.

Then, too, the former President Bush is considerably more popular among Republicans and Americans in general than is his son, who has spent less than two minutes in public by Mr. McCain’s side since endorsing him at the White House in March. Mr. McCain’s advisers say there are no plans for Mr. McCain and the current president to appear together before the election. They are currently trying to figure out how to handle the younger Mr. Bush’s appearance at the Republican National Convention in September.

The former President Bush seemed to like his metaphorical moment in the sun with Mr. McCain (the day was humid and overcast), and asked an aide to give the news media a tour of his family compound as he continued to talk to a small group of reporters for some 20 minutes after Mr. McCain had left. Still, he refused to be drawn into comments about his own opinion of Mr. Obama’s plan to have most American troops out of Iraq in 16 months.

“I defer to Senator McCain on that,” Mr. Bush said. “I don’t follow this day to day anymore. Sit here by the ocean, watch the tide come in and out.”

Asked if he was wistful about these final months of having a key to his son’s White House, Mr. Bush replied: “I hadn’t looked at it that way. But I expect I won’t have, no matter who wins, an automatic sleeping in the Queen’s Bedroom.”
674 2008-07-22 This advertisement for Senator John McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, is to be broadcast on national cable networks and locally in 11 swing states, including economically battered Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Called “Pump,” it is 30 seconds long.

SCRIPT “Gas prices. $4, $5, no end in sight. Because some in Washington are still saying no to drilling in America. No to independence from foreign oil. Who can you thank for rising prices at the pump? (chant) Obama, Obama. One man knows we must now drill more in America and rescue our family budgets. Don’t hope for more energy, vote for it. McCain.”

THE SCREEN A lone gasoline pump materializes above a shimmering, golden surface, as if part of a mirage. In the background, as a female announcer speaks, a crowd buzzes. The screen blackens momentarily, then returns to an image of numbers whirring rapidly on a pump, followed by a second brief blackout and more numbers flashing. Mr. Obama then appears on screen, smiling, a gas pump to the left, as the buzz resolves into loud chanting of his name. Another quick blackout, and then, as the words “one man” are uttered, Mr. McCain appears, microphone in hand, the first of four images of him that dominate the remainder of the commercial.

ACCURACY Mr. Obama is not against all drilling for oil and gas, only drilling offshore, a crucial word in the debate on energy policy but one never mentioned here. Increasing domestic oil production is also by no means the only or even main road to long-term energy independence, as both candidates have emphasized on the campaign trail by endorsing alternatives like solar and wind power and corn-based ethanol (in Mr. Obama’s case) and nuclear energy (Mr. McCain). Mr. Obama, who has proposed a $150 billion decade-long government-backed effort to help develop clean-energy sources, does oppose the temporary gasoline tax rebate that Mr. McCain favors, calling it an election-year gimmick that does not bring meaningful relief to ordinary Americans. But that is a position many economists and energy experts share. Finally, even before the recent spike, oil prices had been rising for a decade, the result of a variety of political and economic factors in places as far afield as China, India, Venezuela and Nigeria. So it is difficult to understand how Mr. Obama, a first-term senator, can be held responsible for that phenomenon.

SCORECARD Aside from correctly stating current gasoline prices, “Pump” is misleading on nearly every substantive point. But it is shrewdly conceived and may prove to be effective with undecided voters upset about having to pay as much as $100 to fill their gas tanks, yet uncertain as to the causes of the squeeze on their budgets. LARRY ROHTER
675 2008-07-22 The American Express Company, one of the world’s flagship credit card issuers, reported sharply lower quarterly earnings Monday, offering fresh evidence of the financial distress that many American consumers are experiencing.

Profit from continuing operations in the three-month period that ended June 30 was $655 million, or 56 cents a share, down from year-ago earnings of just over $1 billion, or 86 cents a share. That 37 percent decline came despite a healthy gain in postinterest revenue, which was $7.5 billion, up from $6.9 billion a year ago.

American Express stock plummeted on the news. It fell more than 3 percent, to $40.90 a share, during the trading day but plunged 11 percent, to $36.40 a share, in after-hours trading.

The explanation for the disappointing results was simple and stark: more people are defaulting on their credit card loans.

“Credit indicators deteriorated beyond our expectations,” the chairman and chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said. The economic environment confronting the company had weakened significantly since January and grew sharply worse in June, Mr. Chenault continued.

Moreover, he warned that the company expected that loan write-offs would continue to climb for the rest of the year, requiring it to set aside more money to cover those potential losses.
676 2008-07-22 Wall Street analysts speculated that Apple wanted to build on recent gains in market share and expected lower prices.

“This has to mean significant price changes in one of their major products,” said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., a securities analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. “Gross margins should be going up as the iPhone kicks in.”

Apple’s stock was at $149.70 on Monday night in after-hours trading; it closed at $166.29 during the regular session.

The company said that it sold 717,000 iPhones for the quarter, compared with 270,000 a year ago, and that it had sold 11.01 million of its iPod digital music players in the quarter. But the explosive sales of the new iPhone 3G will not appear on the company’s books until its fourth quarter, and the iPod product is maturing and showing slower growth.

That has led analysts to increasingly focus on Apple’s computers, which have grown stronger in part because of the disappointment surrounding Microsoft’s Vista operating system and in part because of what is referred to as the halo effect created by the iPod and iPhone.

Those products are intended to operate with either Macintosh computers or PCs as “digital hubs,” but Apple has attracted a growing consumer audience since Steven P. Jobs returned to the company in 1997.

This month, two market research firms, the International Data Corporation and Gartner, projected that Apple sold more than 1.3 million Macintosh computers in the United States in the second quarter, permitting the company to climb into third place among PC makers, behind Hewlett-Packard and Dell.

Apple said it had sold 2.49 million Macintosh computers around the world during the quarter, a 41 percent increase in unit shipments compared with the same quarter a year ago.

Apple’s net income in its third quarter ended June 30 increased 31 percent, to $1.07 billion, or $1.19 a share, from $818 million, or 92 cents a share, last year. Revenue increased 38 percent, to $7.46 billion, from the $5.41 billion recorded a year ago. Gross margin was 34.8 percent, down from 36.9 percent in the year-ago quarter.

The company said it expected revenue of about $7.8 billion in the fourth quarter. Net income of $1 a share was below analysts’ forecasts.

The fourth quarter has traditionally been slow for Apple’s computer sales, but analysts said that the company recently began an aggressive campaign to offer discounted Macintosh computers bundled with iPods for college students and that the program had led to significant advances in market share.

“It’s a really good deal for college students,” said Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company. “It has driven just enormous upside for Apple.”

A striking aspect of Apple’s strength is that the company had gained market share even before it refreshed either its Macintosh portable line or its iPod line. Analysts expect new generations of both product lines to be introduced in the next three months. That has triggered new waves of consumer purchases in the past.

In response to a question about the health of Mr. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, during the analyst call, Mr. Oppenheimer said that it was a private matter. Mr. Jobs’s gaunt appearance this month at the company’s World Wide Developers Conference drew expressions of concern. The company said at the time that he had an infection but that his health was good.
677 2008-07-22 It is the same nagging insecurity that pushed Harrington to get a college accounting degree as a young man in Dublin just in case his dream of being a professional golfer did not work out as hoped.

Complacency must seem like a foreign term to Harrington, and his hard-driving, option-exhausting character has sometimes sapped some of the jauntiness out of his now-familiar rolling gait. So it was interesting to hear him explain that one of the benefits of his sore wrist was that it kept him from playing too many practice holes in the prologue to what turned into a four-day endurance test as the brutal conditions transformed even the shortest of putts into Pythagorean theorems.

“Everybody will tell you this has been physically and mentally the toughest week we could ever have in golf,” Harrington said. “The fact I didn’t play three practice rounds like normal for a major was a big bonus. I was very fresh going into the weekend, and this 36 holes was a real battle. The wrist injury was a saver for me really.”

Considering that Tiger Woods, the world No. 1 in absentia, won the United States Open essentially on one leg, perhaps there is a lesson in this for aspiring champions. As one American journalist asked Harrington, “Are we going to have 155 guys out, slamming their heads in car doors now to do this injured-golfer thing?”

“Beware of the injured golfer,” Harrington said when the chuckling had died down. “Golfers are very fickle. Little things can set us off in the right way or the wrong way, and guys can be the best golfers in the world in a given week when the right things might happen and might miss a cut the following week.”

In that rare sport where foot speed plays no role, golfers can still acquire plenty of life experience and perspective and continue to play an occasional role on center stage. Norman, who could have been the oldest major champion in history, is the extreme example but hardly the only one. Jack Nicklaus was 46 when he won his last major; Mark O’Meara was 41 when he won his first.

“In other sports, we’d be long gone,” said Colin Montgomerie, the 45-year-old Scotsman. “It proves if you keep yourself in shape like Greg’s done and are mentally aware, it’s possible and in these conditions. He’s got the shots. He’s proved it over the years.”

But in the end at blustery Birkdale, the proving was done by a 36-year-old Irishman who wrapped his game and ambition around the back nine and hit one of the shots of his life on the par-5 17th: Harrington made the best of a downhill lie 249 yards from the hole to hit a 5-wood within 3 feet.

“It’s great to be able to go to your favorite club in the bag for a shot like that,” he said.

The eagle putt that followed gave him a four-shot cushion that even a worrywart like Harrington knew he could not blow. Last year, when he won his first major at Carnoustie, Harrington double bogeyed the 18th hole, losing a one-shot lead. He would have lost the Open, not won it in a playoff, if Sergio García had made a 10-foot putt for par.

But García missed, and that has made all the difference for Harrington. Or has it?

“I’m realistic enough to believe that the twin impostors of success and failure are always a hair’s breath away,” Harrington said. “The difference of a putt going in and not going in and the consequences of that are amazing, and no more so than in that one second. You can look at the round yesterday, and maybe if Greg had got up and down on the first and I didn’t, then the momentum would not have changed.

“With Sergio, we do have an answer. It’s clear, but I have to look at it like this, and I think everybody has to look at it like this: It’s about averages. Get yourself into position enough times, and it will fall on the right side for you some of the time.”

Harrington now joins a club that includes Tom Watson, Peter Thomson, Lee Trevino, Walter Hagen and Woods, who was in the field when Harrington won last year.

“I never thought this would be the asterisk Open,” said Peter Dawson, the chief executive of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club. “I said at the start of the week, Tiger, world No. 1, we miss him. But he has won 3 out of the last 11 Opens, so statistically, he probably wouldn’t have won this one if history had been repeated. So I don’t think this champion has anything to worry about with asterisks against his name. In fact, he proved that last year, didn’t he?”
678 2008-07-22 Mr. McCain is hardly conceding the point. He continued to hammer away at Mr. Obama’s judgment on national security, saying on Monday that Mr. Obama had gotten it badly wrong when he opposed sending additional American troops last year to help stabilize Iraq. Republicans said Iraq would never have reached the point where it could reasonably call for a reduction in the American presence without the troop increase, a policy championed by Mr. McCain over the objections of Mr. Obama and most other Democrats.

“The fact is, if we had done what Senator Obama wanted to do, we would have lost,” Mr. McCain told reporters in Kennebunkport, Me. “And we would have faced a wider war. And we would have had greater problems in Afghanistan and the entire region. And Iran would have increased their influence.”

American military commanders have also expressed qualms about setting a specific timetable for withdrawal, suggesting that to do so could risk reversing the progress made in Iraq since the United States increased its troop presence last year. On Sunday, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Adm. Michael Mullen, told Fox News that the consequences of setting a two-year timeline for removing American combat troops “could be very dangerous.”

For a day, at least, the images of the two presidential candidates offered a sharp contrast. In an interview on “Good Morning America” on ABC, Mr. McCain talked about securing the “Iraq-Pakistan border,” a momentary misstatement of geography. (American forces are pursuing terrorists along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border; Iraq does not border Pakistan.) His aides staged an event where he was seen riding in a golf cart in Maine with the first President George Bush, while Mr. Obama flew over Iraq in a helicopter with Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American military commander.

During his visit to Iraq, Mr. Obama said it was important that the Iraqi government take charge of its own affairs.

“I think it is very important we build on this progress and recognize Iraqi sovereignty,” he said shortly after meeting with Mr. Maliki and as he was starting a meeting with one of Iraq’s vice presidents, Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni.

The talk of a strict timetable appeared to worry Mr. Hashimi. Sunni Muslims fear that a rapid withdrawal would leave them vulnerable to Shiite Muslim efforts to further diminish their power. Rather, he said the emphasis should be on the Iraqi army’s readiness.

The comments on troop withdrawal came after a weekend of controversy between the United States and Iraqi governments over a German news report that Mr. Maliki had expressed support for Mr. Obama’s proposal to withdraw American combat troops within 16 months of January. On Friday, President Bush agreed to a “general time horizon” for pulling out troops without mentioning any dates.

Mr. Obama, on the latest leg of his first overseas tour as the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, arrived in the Iraqi capital in the early afternoon after first stopping in the southern Iraqi city of Basra. General Petraeus met briefly with Mr. Obama when he arrived at the Baghdad airport, and they flew by helicopter to the Green Zone, where the American Embassy and many Iraqi government offices are situated, an American military official said.

Mr. Obama met with Mr. Maliki; President Jalal Talabani; Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the Iraqi national security adviser; and other Iraqi officials at the prime minister’s residence in the Green Zone.

He and the two senators traveling with him, Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, had dinner with General Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker.

In an interview with ABC News on Monday in Baghdad, Mr. Obama said he would not be locked into a false choice between a rigid timetable for withdrawal that ignored changing conditions in Iraq and “completely deferring” to the recommendations of military commanders.

He said his conversation with General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker focused on “what’s adequate for our security interests, factoring in the fact that not only do we have Afghanistan, which I believe is the central front on terror, but also the fact that if we’re spending $10 billion a month over the next two, four, five years, then that’s $10 billion a month that we’re not using to rebuild the United States or drawing down our national debt or making sure that families have health care.”

Before meeting with Mr. Hashimi, Mr. Obama said he was “pleased with the progress taking place” and said it was his impression that among Iraqis there was “more optimism about what is happening.”

He spoke of more “activity taking place, the people in the shops, the traffic on the streets” and said, “Clearly, there’s been an enormous improvement.”

Mr. Obama’s trip is cloaked in secrecy and high security, and aides have also worked to avoid images like the one that caused a headache for Mr. McCain in a visit to Iraq, when he suggested that safety had improved as he walked through a market that was heavily protected by military personnel.

Mr. McCain, whose aides are frustrated by the level of attention being paid to Mr. Obama this week, criticized Mr. Obama as not recognizing the reductions in violence and improvements in Iraq.

“He’s been completely wrong on the issue,” Mr. McCain said, offering a reminder to voters that Mr. Obama is “someone who has no military experience whatsoever.”

That biographical difference, of course, is a central reason for Mr. Obama’s across-the-world detour from the domestic presidential campaign. From Kuwait to Afghanistan to Iraq for three straight days, it is difficult to find a picture of Mr. Obama not surrounded by American commanders or troops.
679 2008-07-22 MOSCOW — Russia’s immigration service said Monday that the chief executive of TNK-BP, Robert Dudley, was not allowed to work in the country under his temporary visa, increasing the chances that the Russian-connected co-owners could oust him.

The move is the latest in a long-running battle at TNK-BP, a joint venture between BP and four Russian billionaires, over the firm’s management and strategy. TNK-BP is Russia’s second- biggest foreign investment and investors are following the fight closely.

“We cannot grant a visa to Mr. Dudley before he presents a valid contract,” Konstantin Poltoranin, a spokesman for the Federal Migration Service said on Monday.

“The previous contract expired and we have no proof that it has been prolonged. The current visa does not give him the right to work in Russia.”

Mr. Dudley’s contract expired last year but BP says it is still valid under Russia’s Labor Code because it has never been officially terminated and therefore rolls over automatically.
680 2008-07-22 Women exposed to high levels of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, are significantly less likely to give birth to boys, according to a new study.

PCBs, which have been associated with various negative health effects, have been banned in the United States since 1977, but they persist in meats, eggs, dairy products and fish. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says everyone has detectable levels of the chemicals.

Researchers studied stored blood from 399 women who gave birth to single children from April 1964 to April 1967. After adjusting for age, race and other factors, they found that women in the 90th percentile for PCB blood levels were 33 percent less likely to have a boy than women in the 10th percentile.

“Most people’s levels of PCBs are considerably lower today than they were when these samples were taken,” said Irva Hertz-Picciotto, the lead author and a professor of epidemiology at the University of California, Davis. “The bigger significance of the paper is that compounds similar to PCBs are present in flame retardants used in many products today, and are increasing at a rapid rate.

“We should be concerned and looking at some of these similar chemicals,” Dr. Hertz-Picciotto added.
681 2008-07-22 The observance lasted but a few minutes. For that brief ritual, the visitors had traveled nearly 7,000 miles -- from Shimoda, Japan, to Brooklyn, U.S.A. It might seem a long way to go to lay flowers on the grave of someone who has been dead these ...
682 2008-07-22 WEISSTUCH--Rachela. We share in the sorrow and loss of Rachela. Cherished matriarch, she always will be remembered as a woman of courage, determination, warmth and a treasured part of our lives. Your caring friends WEISSTUCH--Rachela, on July 21, ...
683 2008-07-22 SCHNEEWEISS--Pauline (nee Goldfine), June 2, 1913July 22, 1996. Rivie, I love you forever. Sam...
684 2008-07-22 HEALTH EXAM Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., below, said banking regulators were combing the books of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as the Bush administration hopes to persuade Congress to approve a plan to bolster the companies.      WORKING...
685 2008-07-22 The foreign minister of Syria reiterated that Syria intended to establish diplomatic relations with Lebanon for the first time since the two nations gained independence more than 60 years ago. ''We are determined to open an embassy and to exchange...
686 2008-07-23 The Taxi and Limousine Commission stood by its view that “a surcharge is not warranted.”...
687 2008-07-23 Against a backdrop of layoffs, small businesses can be engines for job creation....
688 2008-07-23 Over at Slate, Fred Kaplan has an interesting post wondering: Does John McCain really know foreign policy? Fred notes that McCain has made a series of blunders - most famously referring to the Iraq-Pakistan border - that would be devastating if Ob...
689 2008-07-23 A veterans group is releasing a television ad critical of John McCain's Iraq policy....
690 2008-07-23 It's official. The president will speak on the first day of the Republican convention. But will he and the presumptive nominee be staged together?...
691 2008-07-23 As the category 2 hurricane crossed the Texas coast, the McCain campaign canceled an overnight trip to New Orleans and postponed a meeting with Bobby Jindal....
692 2008-07-23 In an interview Tuesday night with Katie Couric, Senator John McCain scolded Senator Barack Obama for getting his history wrong. But it appears that Mr. McCain might himself have inaccurately described the timing of a scene-changing development in...
693 2008-07-23 With the spotlight on Obama in Israel, McCain, too, focuses on the Jewish state...
694 2008-07-23 CBS viewers seem to favor an elite police rescue force over a group of sexually experimental couples. The police drama "Flashpoint," which debuted two weeks ago in a usually-low-rated Friday time slot, is switching time slots with the controversia...
695 2008-07-23 Bad news for Obama: polls show a tightening race in several states....
696 2008-07-23 It didn't get too much notice outside of the oil patch, but Tuesday's bankruptcy filing by SemGroup LP - which Forbes.com last year called the 12th-largest private company in the United States - was one of the bigger corporate flame-outs of late. ...
697 2008-07-23 You could have seen this one coming a mile away. The Times published an Op-Ed column Monday a week ago by Barack Obama, spelling out "My Plan for Iraq" as he was about to depart with a huge media entourage for a visit to that country. On Friday, a...
698 2008-07-23 Vodafone Group, the world's biggest mobile phone operator, announced a surprise stock buyback valued at about $2 billion Wednesday, saying a big share price fall Tuesday had left it undervalued. Its shares rose 3.9 percent in morning trading on th...
699 2008-07-23 Here's some good news for Warner Music Group's long-suffering private equity backers: According to The New York Post, the music label, whose artists include R.E.M. and Green Day, is the year's best-performing media stock. As of Tuesday's close, Wa...
700 2008-07-23 SemGroup LPwas devised to shoulder the risks of commodities markets, but its backers did not count on $150-a-barrel oil. SemGroup, an oil marketing company based in Tulsa, Okla., filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, brought under...
701 2008-07-23 Netflix is shuttering its nascent film financing unit, Red Envelope, saying the division competed with its main suppliers, Hollywood studios. Founded two years ago, Red Envelope was a significant festival buyer and invested in more the 100 project...
702 2008-07-23 Hedge fund managers are looking to global macro funds to try to steer clear of the mess created by the credit crisis, while cautiously dipping into a small pool of more risky assets, a Reuters poll found. Stormy markets have torn through the hedge...
703 2008-07-23 The downturn in the U.S. claimed another high profile victim on July 17, when Lake Las Vegas, the 3,600-acre luxury development surrounding a man-made lake in the foothills outside Sin City, filed for bankruptcy protection. >(Courtesy of Murphy O'...
704 2008-07-23 MIAMI (AP) — Gus Dominguez negotiated the contract for the first Cuban player to defect to the United States. He opened his home to prospects fresh from communist Cuba and taught them about bank accounts.

Now he in a federal prison, serving a five-year sentence as the first sports agent convicted of illegally smuggling a Cuban player into the United States.

“It’s been hard; I try really not to focus too much on it,” Dominguez said in a recent telephone interview. “I think I would be a little more depressed if I focused on it.”

His plight has placed a pall over those agents who handle Cuban players. No one wants to end up like Dominguez.

“You’d have to be a complete idiot to try and smuggle a high-profile player into the country and think you’re going to get away with it,” the agent Joe Kehoskie said.
705 2008-07-23 The Iowa Board of Regents has reopened its investigation into how the University of Iowa handled an investigation into a reported assault of a woman last October by two football players. The board met Tuesday to discuss letters that were sent to the university by the mother of the woman. The letters were not disclosed to the board until last week. David Miles, the board president, said, “This board owes Iowans a full accounting, and they will get it.”
706 2008-07-23 A Greek court has dismissed a request by residents of the island of Lesbos to prohibit the use of the word lesbian to describe gay women, a ruling released Tuesday said. Three residents of Lesbos, the birthplace of the ancient Greek poet Sappho, whose love poems inspired the term lesbian, filed suit last month, contending that their identity was insulted by the use of the word in reference to gay women. The court said that the word did not define the identity of Lesbos residents, and so could be used legitimately by gay groups in Greece and abroad.
707 2008-07-23 The rules that govern dropping bombs and firing missiles are far more restrictive now in Afghanistan than in Iraq, senior Pentagon and military officials say.

The rules of engagement were reviewed and tightened in 2007 after a spate of civilian casualties, under Gen. Dan K. McNeill, then the top NATO commander in Afghanistan, and reviewed and revised again in April, officials said.

American commanders acknowledge that civilian casualties undermine support for the NATO-led stability mission exactly at a time when the Taliban is experiencing a potent resurgence across the country. They say Afghan officials, including President Hamid Karzai, routinely complain about civilian deaths in meetings with Americans.

Military officers also acknowledge that their control over airstrikes is reduced when crews scramble to help NATO contingents under attack.

But air commanders say they have a commitment to support ground forces in trouble. Only last weekend, nine Afghan police officers were killed in western Afghanistan when Afghan and United States forces called in airstrikes on the officers, thinking they were militants.

According to the United Nations, 698 civilians were killed in the first six months of this year, compared with 430 in the same period last year. The United Nations report said nearly two-thirds of the deaths this year resulted from actions by the Taliban and other insurgents. The remainder were attributed to actions by Afghan government, American or allied forces.

In interviews at the air base, American and allied commanders expressed frustration about the obstacles they faced. They described what they said were missed opportunities and told how Taliban leaders, who live and operate among the population, have learned to exploit the restrictions.

“There are frustrations, without a doubt,” said a British officer, Air Commodore Simon Dobb, director of the combined air operations center. “But we understand what Clausewitz said, that war is an extension of policy. We are acutely aware of the sensitivities toward collateral damage,” the military term for civilians killed or wounded.

A reporter for The New York Times was given access to the Combined Air and Space Operations Center under a written agreement that neither the name of the base nor its location be published, in deference to the host nation’s concerns.

Over recent weeks, a wave of deadly Taliban attacks illustrated just how thinly American and NATO troops were stretched across Afghanistan, prompting Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to pledge to find additional forces for the mission.

In the meantime, orders for airstrikes in Afghanistan have increased in recent months, as American and allied warplanes attack Taliban hide-outs and swoop in to assist allied and Afghan forces under fire.

According to statistics compiled by the air operations center, during the first six months of this year, 1,853 munitions were dropped by air over Afghanistan — more than twice the 754 dropped in Iraq during the same period.

In June alone, 646 bombs and missiles were used in Afghanistan, the second highest monthly total since the end of major combat operations in 2002.

Air Force lawyers vet all the airstrikes approved by the operational air commanders. Senior Pentagon officials said the more stringent rules of engagement now in effect for Afghanistan specified the acceptable levels of risk to civilians for a priority attack. They said these more stringent rules required a significantly lower risk of civilian casualties than was acceptable in Iraq.

Missions in Afghanistan that are judged vital but highly risky to civilians may now require approval by the overall regional commander and, in some instances, even by the defense secretary himself, according to Pentagon and military officials.

“In their deliberate targeting, the Air Force has all but eliminated civilian casualties in Afghanistan,” said Marc Garlasco, senior military analyst with Human Rights Watch. “They have very effective collateral damage mitigation procedures.”

The greater risk of civilian casualties, Mr. Garlasco said, comes in unplanned targeting, when American and allied troops come under attack unexpectedly and call for airstrikes for urgent help.

“When this immediate targeting needs to be done, an aircraft may not have the correct weapon for that target,” Mr. Garlasco said. “The aircraft may be rerouted to assist troops in a hard fight, and there is not time to do the collateral damage modeling they would want to do. In an attempt to help troops on the ground caught up in the fight, there have been situations where they have killed civilians.”

At the air operations center, targeting specialists spend hours before each mission measuring distances from the potential strike zone to the nearest house, building, mosque, school or hospital.

Vast numbers of public, religious and historic sites make up a computer database of no-strike zones. Special goggles are worn while reviewing digital images compiled from surveillance aircraft and satellites to give a detailed, three-dimensional view of the target area.

The bombs themselves are chosen carefully and sometimes modified. Some designed for air burst are instead programmed with a delayed fuse to bury themselves before exploding, thus reducing the blast range. One sort of bomb has even been loaded with less explosive, filled instead with concrete, to cause great damage where it hits but no farther.

“We explicitly guarantee extra benefits to civilians,” said Col. Gary Brown, the top military lawyer at the air operations center. Lawyers like Colonel Brown check that proposed operations conform to a complex body of military law, including the Geneva Conventions, acts of Congress and court decisions.

Although Air Force officials acknowledge that unintended civilian casualties have been inflicted, Colonel Brown also said the Taliban and Al Qaeda regularly fabricate reports of civilian deaths. He and other officers at the operations center say every mission has two dimensions: the fight itself and the information fight after that fight.

“The Taliban have a very efficient and very effective political machine,” Colonel Brown said.

Though target planners were frustrated by the inability to carry out the mission against the Taliban leader who took refuge in the building, another mission just days before, overnight on July 8, was carried out with the goal of eliminating another Taliban commander on the list of “high-value targets” — even though a last-minute change was ordered to prevent the loss of civilian life.

An array of surveillance vehicles, some remotely piloted, had tracked the Taliban leader around the clock for days, establishing what intelligence circles call “a pattern of life.”

When the Taliban leader and his followers camped for the night on the northwest outskirts of Kandahar, a team of targeting and weapons specialists at the combined air operations center went to work, scanning aerial photographs to gauge the distance to nearby structures and analyzing the blast radius of bombs and missiles aboard aircraft overhead.

It turned out that houses and other buildings were inside the blast range of those munitions, so the Air Force deployed an A-10 Thunderbolt. Its armor-piercing shells were designed for destroying Soviet tanks — but the aircraft can also strike with great accuracy without a large blast area.

The A-10 strafed the sleeping Taliban camp with cannon fire. According to later reports, buildings nearby went undamaged.
708 2008-07-23 ALBANY — It took all of four days, but Joseph L. Bruno has found a new job.

Mr. Bruno, the majority leader in the State Senate for more than a decade, is now the chief executive officer of an information-technology company that has numerous state contracts. State ethics rules bar Mr. Bruno, a Republican who left office on Friday, from lobbying the Legislature for two years. But nothing prevents him from doing business with the executive branch.

Mr. Bruno’s new employer, CMA Consulting Services, has contracts with the offices of the attorney general and comptroller, as well as the Office of General Services.

In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Bruno, 79, said that in his new role, he planned to expand CMA, which is based in Latham, N.Y., an Albany suburb. He brushed off any suggestion that the deep ties he developed to state government over the course of a three-decade career in politics would be helpful in winning more government contracts.

“We’re going to look to grow the company in a very productive way, hopefully make some money and pay more taxes,” he said. “There are rapid growth opportunities here.” Business with New York State, he said, would not be the company’s focus for growth.

Mr. Bruno, whose pension from the Senate is between $90,000 and $100,000 a year, declined to say how much he would earn at CMA. “It’s not enough, whatever you get,” he said with a chuckle.
709 2008-07-23 Mr. Jobs ran a high fever for the week preceding his presentation, according to an industry executive he spoke with. He considered canceling his appearance because he was still feeling ill, but did not want to skip a long-scheduled event, that person said.

During an interview after the presentation, Mr. Jobs responded to a reporter’s question about how he was feeling by saying, “I feel fine.”

Mr. Jobs has told several associates, as well as some members of Apple’s board, that he is dealing with nutritional problems in the wake of his cancer surgery. Medical descriptions of the surgery state that in some cases it leads to weight loss and low energy.

Analysts were divided over how much of a role the talk about Mr. Jobs’s health played in Tuesday’s decline in Apple’s stock. After closing at $166.29 on Monday, the shares opened lower and then recovered during the day to close at $162.02, a 2.6 percent drop.

There was intense discussion of the significance of a statement made by Peter Oppenheimer, the chief financial officer, that Apple was planning a “product transition” that would lower its gross margins by three to four percentage points during the next year.

Still, analysts said Mr. Jobs’s health was on investors’ minds.

“Every client call today I’ve had has brought up the health issue,” said Charles Wolf, a securities analyst at Needham & Company. At the same time, however, Mr. Wolf said that the overriding issues were basic ones about the company’s business in the wake of one of its best quarters. “I think the drop was based on the margin; that’s when the stock really cratered.”

Apple is, of course, not only private about Mr. Jobs’s personal life, but about virtually every aspect of its business.

The public image of the company is carefully orchestrated around high-profile product introductions by Mr. Jobs. And the extraordinary degree to which Apple’s recovery and continued success is associated with Mr. Jobs has made it unique in the eyes of shareholders.

“These are material questions given that his footprint is all over the company,” said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “The fact is, if you’re a C.E.O. of a public company you’re a public figure.”

The company has said that it has formulated a succession strategy in case Mr. Jobs left the company, but that it was confidential.

Mr. Jobs, who is keeping his own counsel on the succession issue, is on vacation this week and did not return phone calls.
710 2008-07-23 Mr. Chidambaram has become a vocal champion of some of the Asian nations whose fast-growing economies are threatened by high oil prices — countries that rely on oil imports but have little leverage over prices.

While rising oil and gas prices are pinching consumers’ wallets and corporate profits in the United States and Europe, the consequences have been more drastic in many developing countries. Protests and riots are rife, newly blossoming businesses like airlines are being crushed and severe inflation looms.

“Four or five years of economic growth are being wiped out in one year,” Mr. Chidambaram said.

Economists say politicians here are powerless. “There is a general resignation in Asia that little can be done in the short term to influence the global price of crude oil,” said Matt Robinson, an economist with Moody’s based in Sydney, Australia.

Opposition party leaders in India’s increasingly fractured political landscape have called for the ouster of Mr. Chidambaram because of higher fuel prices. “I wish I had a magic wand to bring down oil prices, and I don’t,” he said.

Mr. Chidambaram is one of the few politicians from oil-buying countries to propose concrete changes in the way the world’s crude markets work.

His suggestion is to create a “buyers’ group” that would represent nations that rely on petroleum imports, much like the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries represents producers. This group could sit across the table from OPEC and set an acceptable price band that would take into account future production and demand estimates, he said.

“I’m not suggesting a cartel,” Mr. Chidambaram said. “I’m only suggesting that all buyers get together and exchange views, like producers do.”

He presented this idea at an energy meeting in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in June, and he acknowledged that the other attendees gave it a cold response but attributed that in part to the lack of buying nations at the meeting. Any oil trading, in the spot or futures markets, would also have to stay within a price band, he suggested.

Such arrangements are not unprecedented in the commodity markets. OPEC set up an informal price band after the price collapse of 1998, with a target price of $22 to $28 a barrel.

While it was active, if the average price of oil strayed above $28 a barrel, OPEC members would pump more oil so prices would fall a little, and if the average price fell below $22 a barrel, production would be cut so that prices would rise. But this mechanism was eventually abandoned as demand for oil from emerging markets grew faster than OPEC’s ability to increase its supplies.

The effect of speculation on the price of oil, as well as its benefits and negatives, has been debated in the United States and beyond this year.

While critics like Mr. Chidambaram blame speculators for high oil prices, some economists blame rising demand from developing nations, created by breakneck economic expansion and rising personal incomes.

President Bush criticized again last week the subsidies in many Asian countries that keep gasoline prices lower for their consumers, including China and India. Mr. Bush said such subsidies, which China and India have reduced somewhat, kept demand elevated. Despite subsidies, consumers in India still pay more for a gallon of gasoline than consumers in America.

On the other hand, investors in oil futures add liquidity to the system and smooth out price shocks. But their critics say the additional cash they bring to commodity markets artificially inflates prices to the point that they are detached from fundamentals like supply and demand.

India has already acted to tame other commodity prices. The country banned futures trading in several essential food commodities, including lentils, soy oil and rubber.

Prices in some of these commodities, like lentils, have declined, while prices in others, like rubber, have risen. So far, India’s experience “does not point to any conclusions,” Mr. Chidambaram said, though “public sentiment seems to support banning futures trading” altogether.

Mr. Chidambaram is not the only non-American politician questioning speculators’ role as Congress examines the issue. The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, said last month that his government would do what it could to “act consistently on the question of the impact of speculation on global oil markets and any artificial manipulation of the oil price.”

A spokesman for the Australian government said Mr. Rudd was not suggesting anything beyond acting through existing international organizations. (He has, figuratively, suggested applying a blowtorch to OPEC to lower oil prices.)

Nations in South and East Asia, including India, may have the most to lose if oil prices resume their steep rise, or stay at current highs. In a report called “Inflation Typhoon,” HSBC’s economists in Asia warned this month that increases in fuel prices could cripple the region.

In part because of rising energy costs, inflation in the Philippines will hit double digits in the coming months, Pakistan’s economy looks “precariously out of balance,” Malaysian petroleum prices are up 41 percent and Indonesian prices are up 30 percent, the report said.

In India, inflation was above 11.9 percent in July, higher than it has been in more than a decade, and HSBC predicts economic growth will slow to 7.6 percent this year, from 9 percent last year.

The report warned, “If commodity price inflation remains high, the inflation and growth impacts next year will be more severe.”
711 2008-07-23 The Giants agreed to terms with their first-round choice Kenny Phillips on Tuesday, the last of their draft picks to sign. Terms of the deal were not released.

The team picked Phillips, a safety out of Miami, with the 31st and last pick of the first round. The Giants had lost their starting free safety, Gibril Wilson, to the Oakland Raiders in free agency.

“We like his size and speed, he is multidimensional — we like those kind of players,” Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said on draft day. “He played corner before, and we think he can go down and play on a third receiver if he had to.”

The team signed cornerback Terrell Thomas, their second-round choice, on Monday.

REID’S SON SENTENCED Garrett Reid, a son of Philadelphia Eagles Coach Andy Reid, was sentenced to two years in a drug-rehabilitation program. He had pleaded guilty in May to trying to smuggle dozens of pills into a jail in which he was scheduled to serve a sentence in connection with a car accident he caused while on heroin. GUILTY PLEA BY KACZUR New England Patriots offensive lineman Nick Kaczur pleaded guilty to speeding in a deal with prosecutors that will hold off a misdemeanor drug-possession charge. Kaczur, 28, was ordered to pay a total of $355 in fines and fees by Whitestown Town (N.Y.) Justice Stanley Wolanin, who said the drug-possession charge would be dismissed if Kaczur stayed out of trouble the next six months. JETS SIGN DEFENSIVE BACK The Jets signed the free-agent defensive back Ahmad Carroll, a former first-round pick of the Green Bay Packers who was out of the league last season. Carroll, who was the 25th overall pick in 2004, played arena football this past year.
712 2008-07-23 SemGroup L.P. was devised to shoulder the risks of commodities markets, but its backers did not count on $150 oil.

SemGroup, an oil marketing company based in Tulsa, Okla., filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, brought under by the increasing cost of trading oil in a time of record prices.

The company was forced to curtail its futures trading operations two weeks ago because of a lack of funds and because physical oil dealers were unwilling to work with the company, participants in both markets say.

Shares in SemGroup’s publicly traded subsidiary, SemGroup Energy Partners, which operates pipelines and terminals that mainly transport its parent’s oil, have plunged 50 percent since July 16.

SemGroup was done in by volatility in the crude and credit markets that transformed a routine oil price hedging strategy into a lethal liability.

Had oil prices risen two years ago, when borrowing was easier, SemGroup would probably have ridden out its problems. Instead, SemGroup went under, and could still drag its public subsidiary down with it.

The subsidiary is now under the management of two of its parents’ creditors, which said on Tuesday that they would move forward as an independent pipeline company.
713 2008-07-23 The construction and mining equipment company Caterpillar said on Tuesday that quarterly earnings rose 34 percent, widely beating expectations, as strong growth in emerging economies offset weakness in North America, Western Europe and Japan.

The company also raised its full-year outlook, despite its forecast of significantly higher material costs in the second half.

Caterpillar, a component of the Dow Jones industrial average and a business bellwether, reported a second-quarter profit of $1.11 billion, or $1.74 a share, compared with $823 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier.

Analysts, on average, had expected the company, based in Peoria, Ill., to earn $1.54 a share on sales of $11.87 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.

In North America, Caterpillar said economic conditions in construction and quarrying continued to deteriorate during the quarter, offsetting some improvements in commodity sectors.

But strength in Asia, where machinery sales surged 50 percent during the quarter, more than offset weakness there and in Western Europe.

China continued to be a big area of strength, and Indonesia, which is benefiting from high coal prices and strong construction growth, also contributed to Caterpillar’s gains.
714 2008-07-23 FRANKLIN, Tenn. — The electric cars that Nissan Motor plans to start selling by 2010 will have varying capabilities depending on a given country’s driving patterns, but all will be priced competitively and will generate profits, company executives said Tuesday.

Nissan’s chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, said that any electric car the company sold in the United States would need a range of at least 100 miles between charges to be practical, but that European drivers could make do with about half that range. Tolerance for the time it takes to recharge such a car may vary widely as well, he said.

One aspect that Mr. Ghosn said would remain constant, however, is that the cars would produce zero tailpipe emissions, unlike some vehicles being developed by rivals that have range-extending gasoline engines to power the car after its battery is depleted. Building cars powered by alternative fuels but that still use oil is “unsustainable,” he said.

“I want a pure electric car. I don’t want a range extender. I don’t want another hybrid,” Mr. Ghosn told reporters after a ceremony to dedicate Nissan’s new North American headquarters in Franklin, an affluent suburb in the hills south of Nashville. “It’s not going to be zero emissions in certain conditions. It’s going to be zero emissions.”

In May, Mr. Ghosn asserted that Nissan would, within two years, become the first automaker to sell a mass-market, zero-emission vehicle in the United States. The company plans to sell such cars globally by 2012.
715 2008-07-23 The issue has been fiercely debated as oil surged above $140 a barrel and gasoline rose above $4 a gallon, prompting consumer groups to put fierce pressure on lawmakers and regulators.

Congress has held dozens of hearings since January to explore proposals that range from expanding offshore drilling to expelling institutional investors from the commodity markets.

But the notion with the most political traction so far is a proposal from the Senate Democratic leadership that would restrict speculators’ role in futures markets, apply those restrictions to any foreign exchange open to traders in the United States, and extend the C.F.T.C.’s authority to cover swaps trading that does not occur on public exchanges.

In debate on that bill this week, its supporters have repeatedly predicted that reducing the growing role of speculators would allow energy prices to fall.

In its report, the federal task force acknowledged that investors had flocked to the energy futures markets in recent years, attracted by high returns. But the task force said that a review of both public and nonpublic data shows that speculators could not be fairly blamed for rising prices.

For example, swap dealers, who privately offer investors a future return linked to commodity markets, were roughly balanced between purchases and sales of energy futures contracts. And in the first five months of 2008, more of these swap positions were selling than buying. In that same period, oil prices rose 28 percent.

The report’s key finding was that speculative investors more often changed their positions after prices had moved, not before.

That suggests that these traders “are responding to new information — just as one would expect in an efficiently operating market,” the report said.

The task force, led by the C.F.T.C., includes staffers from the departments of Agriculture and Energy, the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. It will release a complete study in September.

In identifying the drivers of energy prices, the report noted that oil consumption grew 3.9 percent between 2004 and 2007. At the same time, oil supplies lagged that demand, with production growth from nations outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries slowing to levels well below the historic averages.

After settling at a record $145.29 a barrel on July 3, oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange have been sliding in recent weeks. On Tuesday, oil fell $3.09 to $127.95 a barrel. Average gasoline prices have also been declining recently, from a record of $4.11 a gallon on July 17 to $4.05 a gallon on Tuesday.
716 2008-07-23 M. Night Shyamalan is venturing out from behind the camera. Media Rights Capital, an independent film, television and digital studio, has announced the formation of the Night Chronicles, a new financing and production company in partnership with Mr. Shyamalan. He will oversee development and production at the company, which plans to produce one film a year over three years. The films will be based on stories and ideas from the director of “The Sixth Sense” and most recently “The Happening.” He will also be an owner of the films’ copyrights and retain artistic control while Media Rights Capital will engage distribution for each film.
717 2008-07-23 Asia’s central bankers, who are preparing for their annual gathering July 28 in Shanghai, have been unable to develop a united response to deal with the worst inflation threat in at least a decade.

In an interview Tuesday, Boediono, the governor of the Bank of Indonesia, called for a coordinated international move toward tighter monetary policy, including higher interest rates by the United States, so as to slow inflation.

In an era of global capital flows, so much excess money is now flowing through world markets that no single country can fight the international problem of inflation effectively by tightening its own monetary policy, Boediono said. (Like many Indonesians, he uses only one name.)

“I don’t think any one country, even as big as China or even the United States, would be able to stomach the adjustment” of raising interest rates far enough to slow global inflation, he said.

World oil prices could fall by 30 percent if countries took coordinated action to reduce liquidity, he said. He attributed much of the recent rise in global commodity prices to excess money in circulation.

But Boediono said he was not recommending that Asian central banks sell any of their dollar reserves to put pressure on the United States to raise interest rates. Asian purchases of dollar-denominated securities, led by China’s $1.8 trillion in foreign reserves, have played a central role in financing the American trade and government budget deficits and in holding down interest rates on mortgages during the recent American housing market decline.

Most central banks in Asia have been reluctant to give up any of their economic independence or challenge the United States by coordinating their monetary and currency policies, even as they fret about rising prices.

“There is a legitimate concern about the recent developments on the inflation front,” said Y. Venugopal Reddy, the governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a speech late last month. “Oil price increase is now a global problem, making inflation a problem for all countries, both developed and developing. Hence, our solutions to the problem will also be similar, but tailored to suit our conditions.”

Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People’s Bank of China, said this month during a visit to Switzerland that an interest rate increase might be needed in China to combat inflation. While the rise in consumer prices slowed slightly in China last month, to 7.1 percent from 7.7 percent in May, inflation accelerated at the producer level, to 8.8 percent in June from 8.2 percent in May.

Ms. Tuano-Amador said the meeting in Shanghai was unlikely to produce any consensus on monetary policy coordination. “I don’t think that it’s on the table right now,” she said.”

As the Asian Development Bank said in its report issued Tuesday in Singapore, inflation has risen across the region. “The external economic outlook for emerging East Asia has dimmed amid prospects for slower growth, tighter credit conditions and higher inflation,” the bank said.

The report also mentioned that “heightened inflationary pressures will require more decisive tightening of monetary policies across much of emerging East Asia.”

The initial reaction of many governments and private sector economists across Asia over the winter was to see price increases as largely confined to food and energy — and therefore not requiring monetary policy responses like interest rate increases. But broader inflation trends are now starting to become apparent.

The core inflation rate, excluding food and energy, accelerated in Indonesia to 8.7 percent in May from 6.3 percent in December. During the same period, the core rates rose in May in the Philippines and Singapore to 6.2 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively, from 2.6 percent and 3.5 percent.

Strong demand for Indonesia’s many commodities, from coal to palm oil, have insulated it somewhat from slowing growth elsewhere. But rising prices are starting to take a toll, particularly on the poor.

Halimah, a teacher, echoed the unhappiness of many Indonesians as she bought milk on Sunday at a street market in Karawang, a town in west-central Java. “It has been very difficult for us, especially on kerosene, cooking oil and eggs — they have been rising in price dramatically,” she said.

Central banks in the region have been struggling for months to respond to the Federal Reserve’s low interest rates. Low American interest rates are making it harder for the region’s central banks to raise their rates; doing so would make them more attractive for international investors and could produce rapid appreciation in their currencies.

Stronger currencies would lower the cost in local currency terms of importing oil and other goods. But stronger currencies would also reduce the competitiveness of exports at a time when demand for Asian goods is weakening in the United States.

Boediono said he saw some room for the Indonesian rupiah to rise against the dollar, but that the timing could not be forced on his country. “Some orderly appreciation,” he said, “would be helpful for us.”

Boediono said that the Federal Reserve should raise short-term interest rates, and that his experience during the Asian financial crisis made him believe that the Fed could act without causing excessive damage to the American banking system.

“I don’t think a move of 25 or 50 basis points,” or 0.25 or 0.5 percentage points, “would collapse it,” he said.

Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told the Senate Banking Committee in testimony on July 15 that the United States economy faces risks of a further slowdown and higher inflation. Analysts interpreted his comments as meaning it was unlikely that the Fed would either raise or lower interest rates soon. The target for the overnight borrowing rate among banks, or federal funds rate, stands at 2 percent.

Boediono spoke in an interview in his elegant, wood-paneled offices, where the international décor and even the styling of the paneling bear a striking resemblance to the governors’ suites at the Federal Reserve’s headquarters in Washington.
718 2008-07-23 Hoping to tap into higher returns overseas, General Electric said Tuesday that it would team up with a sovereign wealth fund in Abu Dhabi to create an $8 billion commercial finance fund based in the Middle East.

The Abu Dhabi fund, Mubadala Development Company, and G.E. said Tuesday that they had agreed to each invest $4 billion in equity in the fund over the next three years. Mubadala is owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, part of the United Arab Emirates.

Mubadala also said it planned to become a major stockholder of G.E. by buying shares through the open market.

“This partnership brings together two world-class organizations with complementary resources and a shared commitment to excellence,” Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.’s chief executive, said in a statement. “Mubadala has deep experience, a diversified portfolio of businesses, access to regional infrastructure opportunities and an exciting vision for growth.”

The companies also plan to develop a research center for clean energy and water, and expand G.E.’s aircraft maintenance and repair services in the Middle East.
719 2008-07-23 YOU no longer have to chase down the Mister Softee truck to get soft serve. Two machines let you make it at home, as long as you can read the minds of the people who wrote the directions.

I tried out the Cuisinart Mix-It-In Soft-Serve Ice Cream Maker, which costs about $100, and the smaller Soft Serve Ice Cream Maker from Deni, which is about half the price.

The Cuisinart makes one and a half quarts of a smashing soft serve, with intense, creamy flavor, but it took me two days to find that out. Soft serve from the Deni, which makes a quart, was almost as good, and it’s smaller than the Cuisinart, an important consideration in many apartment kitchens. Both can also make frozen yogurt, sorbets and sherbets. The Cuisinart’s user manual said the soft serve should be ready in as little as 20 minutes, but after 32 minutes of going round and round, my first attempt, peanut butter flavor, was the consistency of a milkshake.

While the instructions said, “If ingredients are refrigerated, ice cream making time will be reduced,” I found that if I didn’t refrigerate the mixture for at least an hour, it wouldn’t thicken at all.

I turned off the machine. “If ice cream is not thick enough,” the directions said, “pour back into the freezer bowl and continue mixing/freezing until desired consistency is reached.” By then the freezer bowl needed to be frozen for another 12 hours.

When I tried it the next day, with the mixture chilled and the bowl frozen, it worked.

But I needed to decode the directions some more. To dispense the ice cream, according to the instructions, “hold an ice cream cone or bowl one inch below the ice cream chute and pull down the handle.” One step was missing: the machine must be running. It took a while to figure that out.

The Deni had marginally superior directions. They said to turn the machine off after dispensing the ice cream, a clue that it needed to be on while it was dispensing. The Deni directions also said clearly, “For best results, leave the mixture in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours until chilled.”
720 2008-07-23 The uncertainty runs in both directions, with some government officials and market analysts suggesting that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are fundamentally sound and will perform well over the long-term. Others, including some private equity managers, are pessimistic and predict heavy losses.

The rescue plan, put forward last week by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., would allow the Treasury Department to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to shore up the mortgage companies should they be at risk of collapse, either by extending credit or by purchasing equity in the companies, which are publicly traded.

Mr. Orszag said that the analysis by his office did not distinguish between the different forms of aid that might be offered — a credit line or a stock purchase — and that the analysis showed no short-term potential financial benefit for taxpayers even if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac perform well.

But he said the analysis found substantial risk for taxpayers if the companies had steep losses and would not say if his office had analyzed the implications of a full government takeover of the companies.

How much the government will end up spending on a rescue, if one is needed, would depend on many factors, he said, including sentiment on Wall Street. “A key question becomes how does the market view the entities?” he said.

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are commonly referred to as government-sponsored entities, because of the long implicit guarantee that the federal government would step in to save them if they were ever in danger of collapse.

One thing that is certain as a result of the rescue proposal is that the guarantee of government aid is now much more explicit, and Mr. Orszag said that the government’s assurance that it would not let the companies fail would have to be included in any analysis of their long-term financial prospects.

Most immediately, the $25 billion cost estimate provides a precise amount that Congress will have to offset with spending cuts or tax increases if lawmakers intend to comply with “pay as you go” budget rules in the House. Lawmakers could also decide that the $25 billion should be viewed as emergency spending and simply added to the national debt.

There was little immediate reaction to the projections on Capitol Hill as lawmakers and staff members reviewed the complicated calculations and the various assumptions they were based on.

Mr. Spratt, the chairman of the Budget Committee, issued a statement praising the Congressional Budget Office for moving quickly to produce its analysis. “Estimating the fiscal impact of this proposal is complex and involves considerable uncertainty,” Mr. Spratt said. “And not everyone will necessarily agree with every aspect of C.B.O.’s analysis.”

But he added: “C.B.O. is performing its important institutional role by providing in a timely manner its best professional and independent assessment.”

The analysis by the Congressional Budget Office also offered a sobering assessment of the mortgage giants based on several different metrics.

Under generally accepted accounting principles, Mr. Orszag said that the net worth of the mortgage giants at the end of the first quarter of 2008 was about $55 billion. He also said that the companies held more than $80 billion in capital at the end of March and for regulatory purposes were considered to be "adequately capitalized" by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

But on a fair value basis, the value of the mortgage companies’ assets exceeded their liabilities at the end of March by just $7 billion, a thin cushion considering liabilities at the time of $1.6 trillion, and an indication of why there have been numerous calls for the companies to raise additional capital. Mr. Orszag also noted that on July 11, before the Bush administration proposed its rescue plan, the total value of shares in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had fallen to a low of $11 billion. Shares in the companies are now worth about $20 billion.

The House is expected to vote on the larger package of housing legislation, including the rescue plan for the mortgage companies, as early as Wednesday, and the Senate is expected to quickly follow and send the bill to President Bush.

Among the issues that lawmakers have been debating is whether to exempt from the federal debt limit any expenditure that the Treasury Department makes on behalf of the mortgage companies. The current debt limit is $9.815 trillion and outstanding federal debt is roughly $9.5 trillion, leaving a cushion of $310 billion.

Congressional Democrats have expressed opposition to exempting the rescue plan from the debt limit, saying administration officials should come back to Congress for emergency authorization if additional spending is needed. Officials said it was probable that a compromise would be reached and the debt limit would still apply.

The housing legislation also includes the creation of a regulator for the mortgage companies, an agency apart from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees the mortgage giants.

Some critics have questioned whether the new regulator would have sufficient authority to swiftly increase capital requirements — the amount of cash that the mortgage companies need to maintain to protect against losses.

In his letter to Mr. Spratt, Mr. Orszag suggested that simply enacting the proposed rescue plan could bolster the confidence of Wall Street in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

“Private markets might be sufficiently reassured to provide the GSE’s with adequate capital to continue operations without any infusion of funds from the Treasury,” he wrote. “during that time, it is possible that expectations about the duration and depth of the housing market downturn may brighten.”

But Mr. Orszag said his office had also consulted with market investors with a different outlook. “Many analysis and traders believe there is a significant likelihood that conditions in the housing and financial markets could deteriorate more than already reflected on the GSEs’ balance sheets,” he wrote, “and such continuing problems would increase the probability that this new authority would have to be used.”

Taking into account all of the different possibilities and sentiments, and measuring them against the budget “scorekeeping” rules, Mr. Orszag said his office had concluded “that the expected value of the federal budgetary cost from enacting this proposal would be $25 billion over fiscal years 2009 and 2010.”
721 2008-07-23 Washington is currently allowed to distribute more than $48 billion in subsidies linked to price, production and other trade-distorting criteria. It agreed last year to come to at least below $16.4 billion in a move that generated criticism for American farm groups. The European Union and Japan are also offering steep cuts in subsidy limits.

“Anyone who understands farm programs will understand how significant the reduction is implied by this number,” Ms. Schwab said, noting that United States subsidies have exceeded her proposed limit in 7 of the last 10 years.

Without a global trade deal, they may exceed $15 billion again as part of the United States’ new five-year farm bill worth nearly $300 billion that Congress passed over President Bush’s veto.

Ms. Schwab described the concession as a ”major move, taken in good faith, with the expectation that others will reciprocate and step forward with improved market access” for farm and industrial exports.

Rich and poor countries have clashed repeatedly in the W.T.O. talks started in Qatar’s capital in 2001, and now known as the Doha round. Developing nations want to reduce agricultural tariffs and subsidies in rich countries so they can sell more of their produce, while the United States, European Union and others seek better conditions in emerging economies for their manufacturers, banks, insurers and telecommunications companies.

Negotiators are hoping for agreement this week on a deal that would liberalize world agriculture and manufacturing, setting the stage for an overall trade accord by the end of the year. But there is widespread skepticism.

“Here’s the catch: We are making this offer without actually knowing what others will do,” she said in Geneva. “For this round to succeed as a developing round, all of the main developed and emerging market players will be faced with hard decisions.”

Brazil and India, as co-leaders of a broad coalition of developing countries, have resisted cuts in manufacturing tariffs that would create new opportunities for automakers, machinery and electronics from the United States, Europe and Japan.

Brazil’s foreign minister declined to say how it would respond, and instead criticized the United States offer as not going far enough. “I hope this is not the last offer,” the minister, Celso Amorim, said. “It’s a very low level of ambition.”
722 2008-07-23 The day began with a painful report from Wachovia, the banking giant, which took an $8.9 billion loss last quarter and said it would cut its dividend and some jobs. The Dow dropped more than 70 points after the opening bell.

But instead of selling Wachovia stock, investors bought in. Shares of the company ended the day up 27.4 percent at $16.79 a share, its highest close since June 26.

There was a sense, analysts said, that the worst may be over for Wall Street firms. The optimism was enough to buoy the entire financial sector and add to the three days of gains last week. Two of the industry’s most beaten-down stocks, Freddie Mac and Lehman Brothers, gained more than 10 percent. Shares of Citigroup added 6 percent; Goldman Sachs was up 3 percent.

The broader market advanced 1.4 percent, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which closed at 1,277. The Dow finished at 11,602.50, up 1.2 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 1.1 percent.

Stocks rose significantly in the final minutes of trading, with the Dow picking up 77 points in the last half-hour alone.

American Express, the credit card giant that released disappointing earnings on Monday, was not among the winners. The company lowered its earnings forecast, citing increased defaults among card holders, and its shares ended down 7.1 percent.

The technology-heavy Nasdaq index was in negative territory for much of the day after Apple, which reported strong earnings on Monday, said it expected sales to slow in the summer. Some analysts questioned the resilience of the company’s computer and iPod sales, and Apple shares fell 2.6 percent.

Policy makers offered mixed signals about the economy’s prospects in separate speeches on Tuesday morning. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said that he expected the economy to recover despite a few more “bumps in the road,” and urged Congress to approve a proposed rescue plan for the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the plan could cost taxpayers $25 billion.

Meanwhile, Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said he thought interest rate increases should come “sooner rather than later.” Mr. Plosser has consistently voted against lowering rates this year and has warned repeatedly about the threat of inflation.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32, to 98 6/32. Its yield, which moves opposite the price, rose to 4.10 percent, from 4.04 percent.

Following are the results of Tuesday’s Treasury auction of four-week bills and 20-year inflation-protected securities:
723 2008-07-23 BANGKOK — Calling a border confrontation with Thailand “an imminent state of war,” Cambodia asked the United Nations and its Southeast Asian neighbors to intervene Tuesday as hundreds of soldiers faced each other for the eighth day on the grounds of a disputed temple.

A bilateral meeting on Monday failed to resolve the standoff, and troops from both sides remained camped at the ancient Hindu temple, Preah Vihear, that perches on a cliff dividing the two nations.

“In the face of this imminent state of war, this very serious threat to our independence and territorial integrity, we have an obligation to resort to the United Nations Security Council,” said Foreign Minister Hor Namhong of Cambodia. He said the Cambodian ambassador to the United Nations submitted the request on Monday for an emergency Security Council meeting to find a solution based on international law.

The foreign minister spoke at a meeting in Singapore of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations and asked his colleagues in the regional grouping to try to help find a solution to the confrontation.

“Thai troops with artillery and tanks are building up along the border, constituting a very serious threat not only to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cambodia, but also to peace and stability in the region,” he said in a letter addressed to George Yeo, the foreign minister of Singapore, which is leading the regional meeting.

A Thai Foreign Ministry spokesman, Tharit Charungvat, said that Cambodia was within its rights to appeal to the Security Council, but that “we believe that bilateral options are still not exhausted.”
724 2008-07-23 1. Combine crushed graham crackers, nuts if using, and melted butter. Press evenly into bottom of an 8- or 9-inch square pan (glass is good) to form a crust about 1/4-inch thick. Put in refrigerator until ready to use.

2. Using a standing or hand mixer, or a whisk, combine cream cheese, ricotta, honey, lemon rind and salt, and blend until smooth.

3. Spread cheese mixture carefully and evenly over crust, using a spatula or butter knife to smooth top. Cover with fresh blueberries and chill for at least an hour, or until set. Cut into squares or bars and serve.
725 2008-07-23 On Tuesday, the Mets’ medical people advised the bruised Billy Wagner that he needed one more day of rest. Wagner subsequently met with Manuel to affirm the doctors’ decision.

Manuel said that had Wagner made the case that he wanted to pitch, that he was ready if needed, he would have called on him.

Wagner made no such case. He opted to sit this one out. Later, he told reporters that after watching the bullpen get slapped around, he had second thoughts.

I wonder, Billy, was that the Mets’ way, the Yankees’ way or your way?

What would Mariano Rivera have done?

Wagner said that had this been September, it might have been a different story.

Guess what: There might not be a September story for the Mets.

Leadership vacuum. Until someone fills it, this team will never win that elusive world championship — or might not even get an opportunity to play for one.

Carlos Delgado is apparently evolving into being that leader, feeling comfortable and confident in his place on the Mets.

What is puzzling about players like Delgado, who is in his 13th full season in the majors, and Carlos Beltrán, who is in his 10th, is that the leadership journey has taken so long. You’d think that after watching other teams and other veterans celebrate World Series championships season after season, a veteran would vow to do whatever it takes to experience that moment.

Your never get that sense of urgency from this team.

The one “star” player who seems to be torn up by these losses, who seems upset even when the Mets win the wrong way, is David Wright. Wright’s issue in assuming the leadership of a veteran team is his youth — he is 25 years old, and is playing in only his fourth full season.

But this is not a matter of age. It’s one of responsibility. If you see a void that needs to be filled, fill it.

Toward this end, Manuel should officially designate Wright and Delgado the co-captains of this Mets. The de facto captainship has not worked.

What constitutes leadership? All we know is that the Mets didn’t have it when they needed it last season, not from Randolph, not from the core of veteran players on the roster. The cast of characters is largely the same.

Manuel has been exhorting Beltrán to be more assertive on the bases, and challenging Wright to play more of a leadership role, for the team’s sake.

Jimmy Rollins excited passions before last season when he announced that Philadelphia was the team to beat. They were, and Rollins played a major role in the Phillies’ push past the Mets into the postseason.

The Mets’ new season begins now. The good news for them is that none of the drama so far this season — the ups, the downs, the firings — matters.

The Mets’ monumental collapse of 2007 hangs over the franchise like a dark cloud.

When a team suffers the kind of collapse the Mets suffered, loyal fans may not lose faith or hope, but their confidence in the team is definitely shattered.

That was why Randolph was always on such thin ice, why the team was simply a bad series away from being booed. They were booed on Tuesday.

The Mets are like a merry-go-round. They have played 100 games, though it seems like twice as many. They have traveled thousands of emotional miles. They have experienced steep drops and, only recently, a heartening rally.

For all of that, the Mets are right where they were when the season began: looking Philadelphia in the face. And losing.

Yesterday, win or lose, is ancient history. Nothing matters except where the Mets wind up when they end the season.

Between now and then, someone has to step up and fill a gaping leadership void. Or there will be no September story.
726 2008-07-23 All three network anchors traveled overseas for one-on-one interviews with Mr. Obama, and that, too, irked the McCain campaign. The CBS anchor, Katie Couric, who had the first encounter on Tuesday, appeared to take the Republican criticism to heart. She interviewed both candidates on her newscast. First, she spoke with Mr. Obama in Amman, and pressed him repeatedly to explain why he still opposes the troop surge now that it is deemed a success, a line of questioning that drove him to the brink of polite exasperation: “Katie,” he replied, “you’ve asked me three different times, and I have said repeatedly that there is no doubt that our troops helped to reduce violence.” She tacked on an interview with Mr. McCain, via satellite. “He would rather lose a war than lose a campaign,” Mr. McCain said of his rival.

Mr. Obama’s stops in Afghanistan, Iraq and Jordan provided arresting video of the candidate being mobbed by American troops, surveying terrain by helicopter alongside Gen. David H. Petraeus and holding talks with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq and King Abdullah of Jordan. When posing for an official photograph with a foreign leader, Mr. Obama often places his hand paternally on the other man’s arm, subliminally signaling that though a visitor, he is the real host of the meeting.

Touring ruins of the Citadel in Amman, Mr. Obama strode confidently with his jacket crooked over his shoulder in classic Kennedy style. He also practiced statesmanly restraint, telling reporters in Amman that he wouldn’t criticize his opponent while abroad.

Some images are so potent that Fox News, which hammers at Mr. Obama’s lack of foreign policy experience, uses its headline crawls as disclaimers: Shots of his arrival in Iraq were captioned, “Obama in Iraq: Second-Ever Trip There.”

McCain aides haven’t been nearly as creative on his behalf: their stagecraft has been notably unflattering to the candidate. While Mr. Obama was shown striding across military tarmacs and inspecting troops standing at attention, Mr. McCain on Monday was seen being driven around in a golf cart by former President George Bush in the resort town of Kennebunkport, Me. Later, the two men spoke to reporters side by side at a waterfront, and they looked more like fellow members of a Past Presidents’ Club than a party elder passing the torch to his political heir.

CNN even contrasted how the two candidates pronounce Pakistan. (Mr. Obama favors the more international Pahk-ee-stahn; Mr. McCain keeps the a’s flat.)

It’s a very short trip by diplomatic standards, but it’s a long one for television, and every new stop is fraught with opportunities to misspeak or overstep. Many conservatives are gleefully expecting Mr. Obama to make a gaffe in Israel and look effete in France or Britain. On Tuesday, however, it was Mr. McCain who came closest to Europhilia.

Talking about new energy sources in New Hampshire, Mr. McCain said that it took France five years to build a nuclear power plant and complained that in the United States it took 15 years or more. He also acknowledged that Americans did not readily accept France as a role model, saying self-mockingly, “As you know we always want to imitate the French.”
727 2008-07-23 “Anybody that tells me they’ve got a $10 billion budget and can’t find ways to cut 5 percent, that’s just poor management,” Mr. Bloomberg said at a City Hall news conference.

Ms. Quinn said, “Before the M.T.A. comes asking for more from the city, the state or the public, they need to do a little more housekeeping, which means cutting their overhead, cutting their management budget and cutting their administrative budget.”

Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said in a statement that he was “strongly opposed” to the proposal and would ask the state comptroller’s office to audit the authority’s books to see if it is necessary.

“New Yorkers are facing higher prices for food, electricity and many other necessities, and transit fares just went up a few months ago,” Mr. Silver said. “We simply cannot afford another increase.”

A spokesman for the authority, Jeremy Soffin, declined to comment, saying authority officials wanted to reserve comment until they presented their proposal on Wednesday.

The authority faces fiscal problems brought on by sharply higher fuel costs, declining real estate tax revenues and rising debt costs. In the last half year, its projected budget shortfall has increased fourfold.

Despite elected officials’ pledges to oppose the increases, it is far from clear how the authority can balance its budget. Governor Paterson has appointed a commission, led by Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the authority’s board, to study the agency’s finances, but the commission’s report is not expected until November.

Mr. Ravitch said on Tuesday that he was not surprised by the authority’s proposal, but that it was too soon to evaluate it. Mr. Ravitch was chairman the last time the agency imposed back-to-back subway increases — to 60 cents from 50 in 1980 and to 75 cents in 1981.

He said the authority’s current difficulties were far from unique. “Ever since the subway system and every other public transportation system has existed, there is always the question, almost on an annual basis, how do you deal with the increasing costs,” he said.

Riders, meanwhile, who just saw their monthly passes go up to $81 from $76 in March, were not sympathetic to the agency’s financial straits.

“It’s frustrating, because the service isn’t very good,” Jennifer Rizzo, 29, as she settled into a crowded morning rush train at Grand Central Station on Tuesday. “I wouldn’t have a problem paying more if the trains were actually reliable and moved.”

She was riding the No. 4 line: the Lexington Avenue express, which has the worst on-time performance in the system, according to a report released this week. Even some commuters on the city’s more on-time lines said they wanted to see more for their dollar.

“It seems like they’re hiking it every year and nothing is changing,” said Ramona Williams, 24, as she waited for the J train at the Marcy Avenue station in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. “I think we deserve better service at this point.”

The latest figures released by New York City Transit, which operates the subways, show that delays were up 24 percent as of May over the previous year. On-time performance was down 1.64 percent over all, and as much as 5.5 percent on some lines. The number of breakdowns are increasing, even as older cars are being replaced by newer models.

Authority officials say they are trying to improve service. They are experimenting with computer-controlled trains that would allow them to schedule trains closer together. They are conducting detailed studies on the 7, 4, 2 and L lines to determine the causes of delays. They are even exploring skip-stop service as a way to get trains moving closer to schedule.

The authority faces strong resistance from city officials to increase financing, as the city has its own difficult budget times.

Mayor Bloomberg was emphatic in saying Tuesday that the city would not give more. “We don’t have it,” he said.
728 2008-07-23 This time Mr. McCain caught himself, although he was a few seconds too late.

“I’m very concerned about Russia,” he told an overwhelmingly friendly crowd. “I’m very concerned that just recently, because the Czechs agreed with us on a missile defense system, that they cut the gas supplies, the oil supplies, to the Republic of Czechoslovakia — excuse me, the Czech Republic.”

Mr. McCain then added: “The Czech Republic is a very staunch ally and friend. And as you know, the Czech Republic and Slovakia split years ago and from time to time some of us misstate and say Czechoslovakia, when the fact is, it’s the Czech Republic.”

Mr. McCain’s advisers said he would talk this week about jobs and other bread-and-butter issues of concern to voters while Mr. Obama met with heads of state overseas, but Mr. McCain’s campaign has in fact been in constant reaction mode to Mr. Obama’s lavishly covered foreign trip, which continues on to Israel on Wednesday. (All three network news anchors are traveling to the Middle East and Europe for interviews with Mr. Obama. In contrast, no anchors and only two network correspondents traveled to Colombia and Mexico with Mr. McCain earlier this month, and no network anchors traveled for Mr. McCain’s trip to the Middle East and Europe in March.)

In response, the McCain campaign on Tuesday released a video on its Web site called “Obama Love,” which was set to the tune of “Can’t Take My Eyes Off You” by Frankie Valli and featured some of the more enthralled comments about Mr. Obama from television journalists in recent months.

Late last night, the McCain campaign kept it up when aides handed out luggage tags to the traveling press that read “McCain Press Corps: JV Squad, ‘Left Behind to Report in America.’ ” The words were translated into French on the opposite side.

And in what appeared to be an effort to attract some news media attention to Mr. McCain’s modestly covered foray this week to the swing states of Maine, New Hampshire, Ohio and Pennsylvania, his campaign did little to tamp down speculation that he might announce his vice-presidential pick as early as Tuesday. The rumors centered largely on Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who ran against Mr. McCain in the primaries.

The buzz began Monday when the columnist Robert D. Novak posted an item saying that sources close to the McCain campaign were “suggesting” he would announce his selection this week. On Monday night, en route from Buffalo to Manchester, N.H., reporters went to the front of Mr. McCain’s plane to get a response.

Mr. McCain’s initial reaction was not encouraging. “What do you want, you little jerks?” he asked, using what his staff members say is a term of endearment. When asked if he was going to announce his running mate on Tuesday, Mr. McCain grinned and waved off the question. His traveling press secretary, Brooke Buchanan, then said cryptically, “We have no announcements today.”

On Tuesday, as the rumors ricocheted through political and news media circles, Mr. Novak went on Fox News to say that he might have been used by the McCain campaign to drum up interest in his candidacy during Mr. Obama’s big week.

Mr. Novak told Fox that he had received the tip from a “very senior McCain aide” and that the campaign had “suggested I put it out.” Since then, he said, he had been told by “certain people” that it might have been a ruse.

But Mr. McCain nonetheless talked up Mr. Romney at the forum here as someone who appears on television and “does a better job for me than he did for himself.”
729 2008-07-24 Joel Brenner, the National Counterintelligence Executive in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, has taken exception to my Public Editor column on the decision by The Times to name the C.I.A. interrogator of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed....
730 2008-07-24 They won't be going to the Beijing Games, but 5,000 have a new avenue to the U.S....
731 2008-07-24 Steve Ballmer is charging after Apple and Google, which mainly sell to individuals. He may be ignoring the best path to continued sucess for Microsoft, enterprise customers....
732 2008-07-24 For a company that's so brilliant at marketing, it seems to have absolutely no clue about crisis management....
733 2008-07-24 Kevin Johnson leaves Microsoft after having revived neither of his two main units: Windows and Microsoft's online operation. That may have been too much for one person, particularly because of the way Microsoft organizes itself....
734 2008-07-24 Unfortunately, MobileMe's problems were nowhere near over.

After my review appeared, a strange note showed up on the MobileMe support Web site: "1% of MobileMe members cannot access MobileMe Mail. We apologize for this service interruption and are working hard to resolve the problem."

Now, even if 1 percent is accurate, Apple has 2 million .Mac/MobileMe customers. So that's at least 20,000 people.

And just about every one of them e-mailed me.

For most of them, the e-mail features of MobileMe just don't work. The online Mail program at Me.com shows up empty; mail you try to send from your e-mail program never goes out; and messages sent to you get bounced.

For a few, it's a lot worse. "This morning, I woke up and turned on my computer," wrote one reader. "Happily, it seemed that the MobileMe e-mail service was back up. However, a few seconds later, when my computer synced with .Mac/MobileMe, ALL of my e-mail -- every single e-mail I've ever sent, received, and filed on .Mac -- disappeared. Every e-mail file on my hard drive (in the Mail library) was gone. I immediately went to Me.com to make sure that all my e-mail was still saved to Apple's server. It wasn't. All of the mail was gone."

Apple escalated her case and dedicated top technicians to it, for which she was grateful. In the end, however, they recovered only 43 messages. The rest are gone forever.

"I can't even begin to describe how unnerving, enraging, unbelievable and frustrating it is to have thousands of e-mails that I rely on disappear -- from a service that I'm paying for," she wrote me.

As days went by with no change, the disastrous launch began taking on a life of its own. Small-business owners lost money because they couldn't get e-mail from their customers. The Apple support Web site filled up with messages from apoplectic customers. People started calling it "ImmobileMe" and "MobileMess."

MobileMe tech support, my correspondents tell me, is nearly impossible to reach; the recording says that the support team is "unavailable due to the overwhelming interest in MobileMe." (Somehow I doubt that "overwhelming interest" is the problem.) When you do reach them, they're apologetic but can do nothing to help.

O.K., look: Even big companies screw up. Intel's done it. Microsoft's done it. Google's done it.

Maybe it wasn't such a hot idea for Apple to launch four enormously complex initiatives -- the iPhone 3G, the App Store, the iPhone 2.0 software update and MobileMe -- all on the same day.

Still, things can go wrong. We get that.

And it's a little mind-boggling that today, nearly two weeks after MobileMe's official opening, Apple still hasn't solved the problem. That's got to be a record in the short history of cloud computing.

But the real problem is how Apple is responding. For a company that's so brilliant at marketing, it seems to have absolutely no clue about crisis management.

One of my correspondents put it like this: "I love Apple. My first computer ever was a 128K Macintosh. But the lack of explanation and communication on the MobileMe problem is outrageous. Why not update the status message? Why not give us some indication of what's going on?"

I called Apple. Would the P.R. team be willing to say what the problem is? What is being done to solve it? When might it be fixed? What kind of resources or time is being spent on a resolution?

No. Apple declined to comment on any of that.

A P.R. manager did, however, offer me this official statement: "The .Mac to MobileMe transition was a lot rockier than we had hoped, and we are still having some growing pains. Some users have been having problems with their e-mail in particular, and we are trying to restore the service as soon as possible. We're very thankful for our loyal customers' patience as we work out the kinks."

Shortly thereafter, that stale, static status message on the MobileMe site was expanded to include this: "We understand this is a serious issue and apologize for this service interruption. We are working hard to restore your service."

That's about as far as Apple will go in expressing an understanding of the emotional toll the outage is causing those 20,000 people.

It's amazing that Apple doesn't recognize this situation. This is an airplane that's stuck on the runway for hours with no food or working bathroom. And the pilot doesn't come on the P.A. system to tell the customers what the problem is, what's being done to fix it, how much longer they might be stuck, and how he empathizes with their plight. Instead, he comes on once every three hours to repeat the same thing: "We apologize for the inconvenience."
735 2008-07-24 The campaign wants to turn the process of handing out tickets to Barack Obama's acceptance speech into a recruitment and voter registration drive....
736 2008-07-24 Texas's Colt McCoy compares the difference of playing quarterback in his freshman and sophomore seasons to learning to drive....
737 2008-07-24 Microsoft is opening the Xbox to independent developers. This raises the question about whether all sorts of set top boxes, such as Xbox, Tivo, Apple TV, could be open to applications that offer interactive television and information services as w...
738 2008-07-24 The presumptive Democratic nominee's first stop is Berlin. He will travel to Paris and London in the coming days....
739 2008-07-24 Credit Suisse posted a smaller-than-expected fall in second-quarter earnings on Thursday, sending its shares sharply higher in Zurich and giving some investors new hope that the turmoil in the financial sector was showing signs of easing. The Swis...
740 2008-07-24 Kevin Johnson, the executive in charge of Microsoft's struggling online business, is leaving the company. Microsoft announced Wednesday evening that Mr. Johnson was departing to become chief executive of Juniper Networks. Mr. Johnson, 47, is leavi...
741 2008-07-24 Cities have long offered tax incentives to encourage companies to stay and newcomers to relocate. But another option is gaining currency in old manufacturing cities looking to prop up their struggling economies – homegrown nonprofit groups that ...
742 2008-07-24 Anheuser-Busch, which has agreed to be acquired by a rival Belgian brewery, InBev, reported higher quarterly profit on Wednesday, helped by price increases and the introduction of Bud Light Lime. The company said that second-quarter profit rose ne...
743 2008-07-24 GT Solar International raised about $500 million in its initial public offering Wednesday, after pricing its new shares at $16.50 each. The company, which sold 30.3 million shares of its common stock, makes equipment used by the solar energy indus...
744 2008-07-24 Verizon Wireless, the No. 2 U.S. mobile service, has offered to divest assets in 85 cell phone markets in a bid to gain regulatory approval for its proposed $28.1 billion purchase of smaller rival Alltel. The venture of Verizon Communications and ...
745 2008-07-24 Marquiss Wind Power, which makes small, square wind turbines for commercial rooftops, said Tuesday that it had reached a deal to buy wind-energy company Cirrus Technologies. Financial terms were not disclosed. In January, Marquiss Wind Power raise...
746 2008-07-24 Despite the negative headlines, Europeans remain confident that housing markets will soon stabilize, a recent survey found. Italians, in particular, have a rosy view of the future, with 64 percent saying they expect prices to increase in the next ...
747 2008-07-24 Photo: Jacob Silberberg for The New York Times
748 2008-07-24 Karl Rove, the former senior political adviser to President Bush, denied Wednesday that he had anything to do with the Justice Department’s bribery prosecution of former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama, a Democrat. House Democrats have subpoenaed Mr. Rove for information about Mr. Siegelman’s case and other matters, but Mr. Rove has refused to comply. Instead, he responded in writing on Wednesday to a list of 12 questions posed by House Republicans, saying he “never communicated, either directly or indirectly” with the Justice Department or officials in Alabama about the case. He also denied the accusations of a Republican lawyer in Alabama, Jill Simpson, who has linked him to the Siegelman prosecution. Democrats said they will continue to seek his sworn testimony.
749 2008-07-24 Rising medical costs helped knock down the second-quarter profit for the health insurer WellPoint, but investors lifted its stock Wednesday after the company beat Wall Street expectations in a tough market.

Profit fell 10 percent at the company, which operates Blue Cross and Blue Shield health plans, as benefit expenses rose nearly 5 percent, to $12 billion. The company also narrowed its outlook for 2008, and WellPoint executives warned that a slow economy could affect the outlook for the next year.

The company reported a second-quarter profit of $750.5 million, or $1.44 a share, for the three months that ended June 30. That includes investment losses of 3 cents a share. A year ago, when the company had many more shares outstanding, profit totaled $835.2 million, or $1.35 a share.

Revenue edged up 3 percent, to $15.67 billion, from $15.27 billion.

Those numbers beat estimates of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial, who expected profit of $1.36 a share on revenue of $15.61 billion.

WellPoint shares rose more than 9 percent, to $53.17.

Enrollment at WellPoint, the nation’s largest health insurer by membership, rose 1.5 percent year-over-year to 35.3 million members as of June 30. But the company’s business mix changed. Self-financed plan membership surpassed fully insured business, which decreased nearly 2 percent.

WellPoint narrowed its full-year outlook for the second time. It now expects net income of $5.42 to $5.57 a share.
750 2008-07-24 Anheuser-Busch, which has agreed to be acquired by a rival Belgian brewery, InBev, reported higher quarterly profit on Wednesday, helped by price increases and the introduction of Bud Light Lime.

The company said that second-quarter profit rose nearly 2 percent to $689 million, or 95 cents a share, from $677 million, or 88 cents a share, a year ago.

Quarterly net sales rose 4.6 percent, to $4.72 billion, as the company sold 43.1 million barrels of beer.

Beer shipments to wholesalers increased 0.5 percent in the quarter. Sales from wholesalers to retailers, a better indicator of consumer demand, rose 0.4 percent.

Anheuser, the No. 1 American brewer, also raised its quarterly dividend 12 percent, to 37 cents a share. It is payable Sept. 9 to shareholders of record on Aug. 11.

Pending antitrust approval, the takeover is expected to be completed at the end of the year.

This month, Anheuser accepted a sweetened $52 billion takeover bid from InBev. The deal will create the world’s largest beer maker and end more than 150 years of independence for Anheuser, which is based in St. Louis. The combined Anheuser-InBev would have annual net sales of $36.4 billion and brew a quarter of the world’s beer.
751 2008-07-24 Democrats, worried about defections in the ranks, are scrambling to avoid votes on expanded drilling and this week canceled a series of Senate committee sessions that could have provided an opening for Republicans. In the House, Democrats are increasingly bringing legislation to the floor under rules that deny Republicans the chance to counter with a drilling proposal.

“What does Nancy Pelosi have to fear from allowing the House to vote?” Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, asked Wednesday as he and some Republican colleagues rallied outside the Capitol, taunting the speaker of the House for her opposition to a vote on expanded offshore drilling.

Some Democrats grudgingly concede that Republicans have finally gotten a little traction on an issue after struggling for months to find their footing. But they say it is far from enough to fundamentally alter the election landscape.

And they point to the fact that President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney are closely identified with the oil industry, a tie that makes it unlikely the high price of gasoline is going to be pinned on Democrats, especially when Republicans had full control of Washington for much of the current Bush era.

“With the election now set between change versus status quo, drilling is not the silver bullet for our energy policy or the Republicans’ political misfortunes,” said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.

Democrats also say that most voters can be persuaded that expanded offshore domestic drilling is no solution to a gas price crunch that calls for innovation and exploration of new ways of powering America.

“Why are they clinging to this?” asked Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, referring to the Republican emphasis on drilling. “They are mired in the past.”

As they step up their cooperation with Senator Barack Obama’s campaign, leading Democrats also say they believe Mr. Obama can carry a debate with Senator John McCain over offshore drilling, arguing that allowing additional coastal exploration would have no immediate impact on gas prices. They say the energy issue can be cast as a generational one, with Mr. Obama representing a shift away from a focus on oil while his opponent, Mr. McCain, is embracing new drilling as the chief solution to gas prices.

But Mr. McCain evidently sees the issue breaking in his favor as well. He has begun using an advertisement on drilling, is discussing drilling at his campaign appearances and was planning a trip to an oil drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico on Thursday until weather conditions postponed that visit.

He is not the only Republican emphasizing the gasoline issue. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader who is in a re-election fight, has made gasoline prices the subject of a major television commercial buy. At the same time, a conservative group is paying for a radio advertisement being heard in Washington urging Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, to allow more oil drilling.

In the Senate, talks between the two parties about the number and content of competing alternatives they could offer as part of the speculation legislation went nowhere and the bill appeared likely to stall. In the House, Democrats planned to offer a proposal Thursday to remove some oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to try to lower prices. But that measure could sink as well since Democrats are thwarting Republican amendments.

The back and forth is not doing much to reduce the cost of gasoline or the drain on the family budget. Whether it will determine the political fortunes of either party in November will be gauged later.
752 2008-07-24 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
753 2008-07-24 The federal minimum wage increases by 70 cents on Thursday, to $6.55 per hour from $5.85. The increase is the second of three increases to take effect under legislation enacted last year that raised the minimum wage after it had remained unchanged at $5.15 an hour for nearly a decade. The increase will raise the minimum wage in 25 states; the other 25 have minimum wages higher than $6.55.
754 2008-07-24 COLUMBUS, Ohio — Senator John McCain had splashy plans on Thursday intended to steal at least a little attention from Senator Barack Obama’s big speech in Berlin: He was to take a helicopter to an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico and meet with Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, who is being mentioned as a possible Republican vice-presidential pick.

But Hurricane Dolly thwarted Mr. McCain’s plans to raise the issue of offshore oil drilling and the technology that he says has made it safe.

By midday Wednesday, just as blogs were trumpeting Mr. McCain’s coming campaign stop on the rig, the McCain team canceled the trip and postponed the meeting with Mr. Jindal.

The campaign blamed Hurricane Dolly, which had just crossed the Texas coast with winds reported at 100 miles an hour. It did not mention that an oil tanker had just collided with a barge near New Orleans, shutting down 29 miles of the Mississippi River and sending hundreds of thousands of gallons of heavy fuel oil into the water.

The accident had nothing to do with the safety of oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, but Mr. McCain has highlighted the environmental safety of offshore drilling.

Instead of spending Wednesday night in New Orleans, the campaign headed for Columbus, Ohio, where Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, had scheduled an appearance on Thursday night with Lance Armstrong, the cyclist and cancer survivor.

In the meantime, an aide said that Mr. McCain, whose campaign has been overshadowed by Mr. Obama’s foreign trip, was not having a bad week. “I’m not dissatisfied,” said Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain’s closest aides. “I think we’ve said what we had to say.”
755 2008-07-24 A tugboat without a properly licensed pilot was pushing a barge that collided with a tanker, resulting in an oil spill that closed a stretch of the Mississippi River at New Orleans, the Coast Guard said. The person operating the boat had an apprentice mate’s license, said Lt. Cmdr. Cheri Ben-Iesau of the Coast Guard. Officials said it could take several days before a stretch of the river could be reopened after the collision, which broke the barge in half, officials said. No one was injured, but heavy, almost tarlike fuel oil spilled from the barge, forming a slick 12 miles long, Commander Ben-Iesau said. About 47 miles of the river was closed. The barge held more than 419,000 gallons of oil in three tanks. Investigators do not know whether all three tanks broke but “are assuming the worst-case discharge of all 9,980 barrels,” said Capt. Lincoln Stroh, Coast Guard captain of the Port of New Orleans.
756 2008-07-24 LONDON — An Egyptian-born Muslim cleric fighting extradition to the United States on terrorism charges failed in his bid to take the case to Britain’s highest appeals court in the House of Lords on Wednesday. One of the country’s most senior judges ruled that there was “no point of law or general importance” that justified a further appeal.

The ruling moved the 51-year-old cleric, Mostafa Kamel Mostafa, a step closer to facing trial in the United States on charges that include taking part in a worldwide conspiracy to wage Islamic holy war against the United States. Britain’s home secretary, Jacqui Smith, has signed an order approving his extradition, and officials have said they plan to fly the cleric out of Britain as soon as his last legal recourse has been exhausted.

But lawyers for the cleric, who goes by the pseudonym Abu Hamza al-Masri, have said they may try to take the case one step further, to the European Court of Human Rights, a move that could delay extradition by months.

The lawyers have said they would argue that Mr. Mostafa has reason not to trust formal assurances given to the British courts by American officials that he will not face the death penalty in an American court or be mistreated. That is the same argument that was rejected Wednesday by Igor Judge, the appeal court judge in London.

Officials of the United States Justice Department have said the cleric’s trial will probably take place in New York, with an 11-count indictment based on his activities in London during the years he was the imam of the Finsbury Park mosque, a center for Islamic militant ferment until the government closed it in 2004.

After the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, he became known for his fiery sermons in support of Al Qaeda and his praise of Muslims involved in suicide bombings.
757 2008-07-24 DETROIT (AP) — A change in military policy means Caleb Campbell will not get a chance to play for the Detroit Lions after all.

Campbell, a safety at Army, was drafted in the seventh round by the Lions in April. At the time, Army policy would have allowed him to serve as a recruiter if he made the team.

But a subsequent Department of Defense policy has superseded the 2005 Army policy.

In a letter to the Lions’ president, Matt Millen, dated Wednesday, United States Army Lt. Col. Jonathan P. Liba wrote that Campbell had been ordered to give up professional football for “full-time traditional military duties.”

Liba wrote that 2nd Lt. Campbell may ask to be released from his active duty obligations in May 2010.

Liba said Campbell was allowed to enter the draft “in good faith.”
758 2008-07-24 Wyeth’s second-quarter profit fell 7 percent, to $1.12 billion, or 83 cents a share, from 87 cents a year earlier, because of generic competition faced by its Protonix ulcer drug.

That was still better than investors had expected, and Wyeth shares rose nearly 2 percent, to $45.55.

Pfizer stock rose nearly 4 percent to close at $19.07, though some of the shine was taken off by news that the company’s Chantix quit-smoking drug had lost more than a third of its sales in the United States because of safety concerns.

Glaxo’s American depositary receipts gained 11 cents to close at $48.66 after the company said it would delay the completion of a share buyback program.

Pharmaceutical stocks have had a rough ride in recent years, reflecting growing anxiety about multiple patent expirations on blockbuster drugs over the next five years, at a time when few new drugs are emerging from company laboratories.

Shares of Pfizer, which faces loss of exclusivity on its top-selling drug, Lipitor, for high cholesterol, have lost more than a quarter of their value in the last year.

Against that backdrop, leading drug makers are rethinking their strategy.

Some are trying to bolster their pipelines by striking ever bigger deals with biotechnology companies. Roche Holding, for example, offered this week to buy out the remainder of Genentech for $43.7 billion.

Others are aiming to improve their operations in other ways.

Glaxo’s chief executive, Andrew Witty, who took over in May, used Wednesday’s results presentation to outline a new strategy.

Mr. Witty said the company would become much more diversified with lower costs and a more pragmatic approach to research and investment.
759 2008-07-24 Ten randomly selected companies in the Washington area, according to the agency, had set up virtual offices or rented mail boxes in poor communities solely to obtain a HUBZone business address. Over two years, those companies and others won more than $100 million in HUBZone contracts, according to the report presented to the House Committee on Small Business last week.

“You have to wonder about a system that lets individuals self-qualify for a program of this size,” said Nydia M. Velazquez, the New York Democrat who heads the committee.

In response, the S.B.A. released a statement that outlined the steps it planned to take to correct the problems and verify that companies are eligible.

Officials at the Interior Department said the inspector general’s report uncovered only $5.7 million in misdirected contracts. That was a small fraction of the agency’s overall small business contract awards, which totaled $1.39 billion in fiscal year 2006 and $1.6 billion in fiscal year 2007.

But Earl E. Devaney, the department’s inspector general, said what his audit team uncovered “was the tip of the iceberg” because it was based on a review of three-tenths of a percent of contracts from a cross-section of offices — ranging from Indian affairs to surface mining — in the huge department.

“These are not just clerical mistakes that can be tagged on two little clerks,” Mr. Devaney said. “This is not one single report, but our fourth in the contracting area.”

P. Lynn Scarlett, the Interior Department’s deputy secretary, said the department was “working to correct these issues.” Her office did not return further calls, and her statement was included in a response to the report by the S.B.A., which also monitors how well the federal government meets its small business contracting goals.

Congress has required that 23 percent of all federal contracts, which total more than $400 billion annually, be set aside for small businesses. Agencies are required to state whether they have met their annual contracting goals. But several inquiries, including one by the G.A.O. in 2003, have raised questions about the accuracy of the S.B.A.’s reporting.

The inspector general’s report “is the latest maddening evidence that big businesses are being handed federal contracts that should be going to small businesses,” Mr. Kerry said. He added that he would “be sending letters to every federal agency asking them to audit their small business contracts and report back to the committee.”

Steven C. Preston, the former administrator of the agency, adopted rules last year that small businesses recertify their size when they merge with a larger business or are at the five-year point in a contract.

The American Small Business League, a small business association, said the problems with small business contracts went far deeper than even the inspector general found. The league’s president, Lloyd Chapman, said large companies were getting the contracts not simply because of errors but because of “the intentional diversion of federal small business contract dollars to Fortune 500 firms.”

Two years ago, the Interior Department said it had awarded more than 55 percent of its contract dollars to small businesses. But the inspector general’s evaluation said that contracting officers acknowledged that some of the companies were not small and “were incorrectly coded as small.”

One of the companies cited, John Deere, won more than $617,000 in small business contracts from the Interior Department in 2006 and 2007. The company, with 52,000 employees and revenue nearing $23 billion last year, said that it was moving to correct the errors in the government database that listed it as having $2 million in annual revenue and under 500 employees. The government defines a small business as one with fewer than 500 employees.

“A marketing unit of Deere had correctly listed the number of employees in that small business unit on a government form, and this number has been used by government agencies to define the entire Deere enterprise as a small business,” said Ken Golden, a company spokesman.

The Interior Department report also found that contracting officers “failed to consistently check” the central contractors registry to determine the company’s true size.

A spokesman for Xerox, William McKee, said the company’s review of the central registry revealed “several errors where business size was entered incorrectly” from such agents, and said the company was going to correct the mistaken data.

“Xerox is not a small business, and has never attempted to portray itself as one,” he said.
760 2008-07-24 At the same time, Arizona Democrats, like many of their counterparts around the country, have outpaced Republicans in voter registration, adding almost 20,000 voters to the rolls since March, compared with the Republican majority’s 8,600 new voters. The second-term Democratic governor, Janet Napolitano, remains wildly popular.

Last month, the McCain campaign startlingly added Arizona to its list of 24 “battleground states,” a fact that state Democrats have clung to like sprinkles on a soft-serve ice cream cone.

“John McCain has striking vulnerabilities here,” said Emily DeRose, spokeswoman for the Arizona Democratic Party. “We are going to take him to the mat. We are not giving him a pass in Arizona.”

What is more, the state’s Republican Party is more or less in disarray, split between its moderate and staunchly conservative factions. Its chairman, who cheerfully attended a Ron Paul campaign event here just two months ago, has been a thorn in Mr. McCain’s political side for years. On Super Tuesday, Mr. McCain captured 47 percent of his party’s voters, hardly the resounding victory that a candidate who has represented his state for over 25 years might expect.

The Democratic ambitions may be largely bluster. Neither Mr. McCain nor Senator Barack Obama, his presumed rival this fall, appears to be spending money in the state. There are no advertisements, and the Obama campaign has no paid staff here.

Mr. McCain’s political director, Sarah Simmons, said the campaign’s designation of Arizona as a battleground state was simply a recognition that voters there do not always vote for Republicans for president.

“Obviously, any state that has swung before, we pay attention to,” Ms. Simmons said. (Arizona has gone to the Democratic presidential candidate twice since 1948 — Harry S. Truman won it that year, and Bill Clinton in 1996.)

Mr. McCain’s recent visit to his southwest regional campaign headquarters here to cheer on volunteers and his breakfast photo op were unusual for an election with so many states in play.

Mr. McCain may be trying to appeal to people like Steven Townsend, a software executive from upscale Paradise Valley, a town near Phoenix, who said he had voted for Mr. McCain several times.

“I represent a large group of Republicans in this state who feel disenfranchised,” Mr. Townsend said, citing the war, the economy and Mr. McCain’s occasional forays into socially conservative territory as reasons for his disenchantment.

“You’ve got such a large percentage of the population that is here now that doesn’t care about the popular history that many here have about him,” he said. “I believe he is susceptible here. It is not as clear-cut as some people may believe.”

Indeed, demographic trends may not favor Mr. McCain. Roughly 20 percent of the state’s voters are Latino, a group that tends to support Democrats in this state. Many Republicans in Arizona, including the sheriff of the most populous county, have taken an extremely hard line on illegal immigrants.

Further, there has been a large influx of younger voters, who tend to favor Democrats over Republicans by about two to one, said Bruce D. Merrill, a state polling expert. Many of these people are registering for the first time.

“I’ve never voted, and I never cared to vote,” said Sandy Simmons, 28. “But this is such an exciting time in our history.” She said she planned to vote for Mr. Obama.

Also, Mr. McCain’s state party has not been his staunchest supporter. It recently came under the control of its most conservative, activist branch, which was infuriated last year by Mr. McCain’s support of a Senate bill that would have offered a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants. The state Republican chairman, Randy Pullen, has often shown support for other candidates, and he attended a rally for Mr. Paul in late May.

“He is the best pick almost by luck of the draw,” Mr. Pullen said of Mr. McCain in an interview at the party’s headquarters here.

Mr. Pullen shrugged off the many disparaging remarks he had made about Mr. McCain in the past, most revolving around what he saw as the senator’s lack of conservative credentials. “That was then, this is now,” he said. “At this point, I very much support John McCain.”

Mr. McCain’s more relevant concern in this state may be the independents, who have been registering at a breakneck speed since the last presidential election and who, along with crossover Republicans, clearly helped elect Democrats in 2006.

For example, while registered Democrats accounted for only 33 percent of voters in 2006, Ms. Napolitano won re-election with 63 percent of the vote. In the state’s Fifth Congressional District — which Republicans had controlled since 1985 — a Democrat, Harry Mitchell, unseated the Republican incumbent, J. D. Hayworth, even though only 27 percent of voters were registered Democrats then, the same percentage as Republican voters. A similar dynamic drove the race in the Eighth Congressional District, where a Democrat prevailed in a race for an open seat.

“My research shows that in Arizona, the new independent is a different type of person from seven years ago,” said Mr. Merrill, the polling expert. “That voter was more libertarian, more get-government-out-of-my-life. The new independents, which went heavily Democratic in the last election, are much younger, better educated and overwhelmingly antiwar.”

While Democrats welcomed the McCain campaign’s description of Arizona as a battleground state, the pronouncement could also have been a strategic move, done to raise money or motivate volunteers at home, or to mess with the minds of the opposition.

“I didn’t take that too seriously,” said Mr. Pullen, the Republican chairman. “I probably should have called them to ask why. It could have been a trap for Obama.”

Ms. Simmons, the McCain staff member, said the lack of resources being shown by both campaigns was an indicator that there was no real race in Arizona.

“I think it would be a real stretch to say Arizona is a battleground state for us,” she said, “just as it would be a stretch to say Illinois is a battleground state for Obama.”
761 2008-07-24 The personal appearances, he says, are crucial.

“That’s bigger than anything, any endorsement, I don’t care who you are,” he said. “They want to touch you; they want to know you.”

It has been nearly 10 years since Mr. Foreman was personally involved with George Foreman grills, though consumers have bought more than 95 million of them. In 1999, he sold the rights to his name to Salton Inc., the grill’s manufacturer, for $137.5 million.

Mr. Foreman made headlines 40 years ago, when he won a gold medal at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. Subsequent career highlights included beating Joe Frazier for the world heavyweight title in 1973, and, the next year, losing to Muhammad Ali at a match in Congo, then called Zaire, that was called the Rumble in the Jungle.

In 1994, at age 45, after several comebacks, he again won the heavyweight title, and continued to box professionally for several more years.

Mr. Foreman first quit boxing in 1977, when he found religion after a match.

“Earlier on, I was this mean guy trying to be champion of the world and beat up everybody,” he said in a recent interview. “But I became a preacher back in ’77. I had this experience — I was in the dressing room — Jesus Christ is coming alive in me!” he said.

After 10 years of preaching and poor money management, Mr. Foreman was on the verge of bankruptcy. In 1987, overweight and 38, he returned to the ring — a smiling, gentle fellow rather than the snarling and standoffish figure of yesteryear.

Fans liked the new George, and so did marketers. Tens of millions of dollars in endorsement deals followed, including the one for the George Foreman grill. He did TV spots for Meineke, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Doritos.

In 2003, Seymour Holtzman, the chairman of the Casual Male Retail Group, which operates clothing stores for big and tall men, signed Mr. Foreman to promote his company. Mr. Holtzman was also an investor in a public shell company, and in 2005, he suggested that the shell company should go into the business of selling the George Foreman name and buying a stake in companies that Mr. Foreman endorsed.

Today Mr. Holtzman is the chairman and chief executive of George Foreman Enterprises; Mr. Foreman owns about 35 percent of the company and earns a $120,000 annual stipend.

In 2007, the company had about $200,000 in sales — and $3.1 million in expenses. Mr. Holtzman attributed the big loss to the newness of most of the company’s products. Several deals were struck late in the year, he said, and, with more Foreman-branded products hitting the market, the company hopes to see better times.

Despite Mr. Foreman’s track record as a salesman, squeezing more profit from the Foreman name may be a challenge, especially at a time when the market is flooded with telegenic Olympic athletes. There are also the questions of whether the public is sick of George Foreman, and whether his name is overexposed.

“If you endorse enough products, people will begin to scratch their head and say, why is he doing this?” said Nora J. Rifon, a professor of advertising at Michigan State University who studies celebrity endorsements.

Judging from the comments on the TV Land Web site by people who have watched the show, “Family Foreman,” there is some residual love for the boxer but also a lot of frustration with him. Some people seem fixated on how many wives (five) and children (10) he has had, and some others find fault with the show. “He can’t act!” one person wrote. “It was very obvious that it was all staged/scripted to create drama, but at least he could have faked it better.”

Another negative sign is Mr. Foreman’s Q score, a measure of awareness and appeal of celebrities and brands that is put out by Marketing Evaluations, in Manhasset, N.Y.

Steven Levitt, the chief executive of Marketing Evaluations, said that Mr. Foreman’s scores suggest that “he is not the most lovable personality. He’s O.K. — but O.K. isn’t enough, especially as this economy gets tighter and tighter, for people to go out and buy something that doesn’t quite fit what George Foreman has been known for.”

But he has been known for a lot of different things over the years, and perhaps he can sell another reinvention. Sitting in front of platters of grapes and watermelon in his suite in the Ritz-Carlton on Central Park in Manhattan during a recent interview, Mr. Foreman tried to recall a relevant quotation from Shakespeare.

“There’s an old saying, I guess from Othello, someone takes your name — I mean takes your wallet — or your —”

He looked to his son George Foreman III (who goes by Monk) for help.

“Your purse.” But Mr. Foreman paused, having lost the quotation again. “What is it?”

This time Mr. Holtzman supplied the missing phrase. “He gets nothing.”

“They get nothing. They take your name, they got everything you have,” Mr. Foreman said. “So I want to go into business to kind of protect my name.”
762 2008-07-24 Drivers who assault traffic enforcement agents will face felony charges because of a change in state law that went into effect on Tuesday, putting the agents in the same category as police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers.

The change in the penal law, signed by Gov. David A. Paterson in April, makes an attack on a traffic agent second-degree assault, a Class D felony, which calls for a maximum sentence of seven years.

Before the law took effect, assaults on traffic agents were misdemeanors for which the maximum sentence was one year in jail, unless the agent was seriously injured, which made the attack a felony.

About 2,800 agents issue summonses, direct traffic, operate tow trucks and enforce traffic rules at construction sites as uniformed Police Department employees.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said at a news conference on the steps of City Hall on Wednesday that the new law sent a clear message.

“If you touch a traffic enforcement agent, you go to jail,” he said.

There have been about 50 attacks on traffic agents so far this year, compared with 60 in all of 2007.
763 2008-07-24 Stocks advanced for the second consecutive session Wednesday as another decline in oil prices and several upbeat profit reports eased Wall Street’s concerns about the economy.

The government reported Wednesday that domestic inventories increased last week as consumers curbed their energy use. A barrel of light crude oil fell $3.98, to settle at $124.44. Oil is down more than $20 a barrel since hitting a record above $147 a few weeks ago.

AT&T, McDonald’s and Pfizer, all among the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average, weighed in with generally positive reports.

“Oil is a positive but I think bigger than that is the earnings news is not as catastrophic as people were thinking,” said Noman Ali, portfolio manager of United States equities for MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto.

The Dow rose 29.88 points, or 0.26 percent, to 11,632.38 after rising nearly 100 points early in the session.
764 2008-07-24 Q. Are there any animation programs made specifically for children that run on the average Windows PC and do not cost hundreds of dollars?

A. You do not need the kinds of machines that Pixar Animation Studios uses to get started with computer animation. A number of programs can create three-dimensional and stop-motion animation. Some are made just for kids. But first, you may want to ask your child what type of animation he or she wants to create.

The Flip Boom program from Toon Boom (www.toonboom.com/kids) teaches young users the basics of animation, including the principles of timing and motion. It works on both Windows and Mac OS X systems and costs less than $40. A free trial version is also available to download, and the company makes animation software that is more sophisticated for older users as well.

Anim8or, a free 3-D animation program for Windows, can be found at www.anim8or.com/main/index.html. CrazyTalk, a $50 Windows program from Reallusion (www.reallusion.com/crazytalk) can create 3-D talking animation from digital photos.

You can find links to other animation programs, reviews and video tutorials at www.your3dsource.com. Shareware sites like Download.com also have various animation software to try.

If you have a recent version of Adobe Premiere Elements, you have the ability to do stop-motion animation. The video-editing program sells for $99 at stores and at www.adobe.com, where a free trial is available. The stop-motion feature allows young auteurs to make animated movies by, say, methodically repositioning Wall-E action figures and snapping each frame of the movie individually with a Webcam.
765 2008-07-24 Many of the artists explored the notion of the handbag as a cultural symbol, often with a dash of irreverence. Mr. Gupta produced “All Things Are Inside,” a video installation that is a meditation on people in transit, like an Indian laborer who returns from Dubai. It also includes clips from Indian films in which the handbag emerges as an element in a human drama.

Blue Noses created “Fifty Years After Our Common Era or Handbags Revolt,” an installation of packing boxes in which videos show satirical moments in the life of a handbag. Ms. Fleury created a giant Pop Art-style quilted handbag lined with pink fur; inside is a makeup compact in which you can view a video of women shooting handbags with guns.

The genesis for the project was the handbag’s 50th anniversary in 2005, when Chanel’s designer, Karl Lagerfeld, issued a new version of the purse, Ms. Chiquet said. The project took several years to come to fruition.

Admission to the exhibition in Central Park will be free, although visitors are advised to book timed tickets at chanel-mobileart.com.

With the weakened dollar New York has become a magnet for European and Asian visitors, and city officials are hoping that the art pavilion will be a draw for tourists. They cited precedents like Christo and Jeanne-Claude’s “Gates,” in which 7,500 gates festooned with saffron-colored fabric panels were positioned along Central Park’s pathways for 16 days in 2005, or the four waterfalls designed by the artist Olafur Eliasson that grace the shores of Brooklyn, Manhattan and Governors Island this summer.

“Right now Central Park is one big international duty-free zone,” said Adrian Benepe, the city’s parks commissioner. “You can’t walk through it without hearing lots of different languages.”

Douglas Blonsky, president of the Central Park Conservancy, said the pavilion would fit perfectly on the 1.5-acre playfield. “It’s low enough so it won’t disturb people,” he said. “We wouldn’t use the Great Lawn or Sheep Meadow. It’s not taking over someone else’s space. It’s a neat little surprise.”

He and Mr. Benepe described Chanel’s donation as a windfall for the park. The money will go toward enhancing its horticulture, particularly in the area from 85th Street to the Harlem Meer.

Asked whether he anticipated criticism for allowing Chanel to advertise one of its products in the park, Mr. Benepe countered, “Everything has a sponsor.”

“Artists in 17th-century Italy wouldn’t have been in business were it not for their patrons,” he added, noting that ING lends its name to the New York City Marathon, which generates millions of dollars in tourist revenue each year.

The convergence of art, architecture and fashion is commonplace these days. A Louis Vuitton bag designed by the artist Richard Prince is constantly spotted on the streets of New York, Basel and London. The Japanese artist Takashi Murakami’s creations for Louis Vuitton were sold in a special shop that formed part of a Murakami retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum and the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art. The architect Rem Koolhaas has helped define the look of Prada shops, and Frank Gehry recently designed a line of jewelry for Tiffany & Company.

“Art is art. Fashion is fashion,” Mr. Lagerfeld said. “However, Andy Warhol proved that they can exist together.”

Noting Ms. Hadid’s star status — she won the architecture profession’s highest honor, the Pritzker Prize, in 2004 — he suggested that “the most important piece of art is the container itself.”

In an interview in her London office, Ms. Hadid said that even though she has not yet designed a permanent building in New York, she liked the idea that the pavilion “lands, creates a buzz and disappears.”

The challenge, she said, was to create a pavilion that was both visually compelling and could be easily transported. Each piece had to fit together like a giant jigsaw puzzle.

Using computer software Ms. Hadid designed a 7,500-square-foot doughnut-shape structure with a central courtyard. Its lightweight panels can be packed in 51 shippable containers; no panel is wider than 7.38 feet.

Skylights admit natural light, and computer-generated lighting casts a rainbow of colors around the base of the exterior that glows day and night.

Visitors entering the pavilion will be given MP3 players. On a track created by the sound artist Stephan Crasneanscki they will hear the French actress Jeanne Moreau discussing everything from sex and love to the secrets at the bottom of a woman’s handbag.

After “Mobile Art” makes its last stop in Paris in 2010, Chanel will have the option to buy all the art. As for Ms. Hadid’s pavilion, Ms. Chiquet said, Chanel owns it but is not yet sure what it will do with it.

Its transitory nature, everyone agreed, will be part of the allure. “It’s like an alien spacecraft that lands in the park and, before you know it, takes off again,” Mr. Benepe said.
766 2008-07-24 Dan Ariely might have mentioned a far more compelling factor in our shock at gas prices: there is no simple substitute for gasoline. For short- or mid-range travel, most Americans have no alternative to taking the car and paying for gas.

When the price of butter goes up, we might switch to margarine, or olive oil, or jelly, or just eat our bread plain. But when the price of gas goes up, we have no substitutes: pay more, or stay put.

And lingering in many minds, of course, is the awareness that as gas goes, so goes heating oil. While it may be possible to forgo a vacation trip or delay a trip to the store, with heating oil, the choice is more stark: pay or freeze. That choice makes a jump in the price of yogurt seem trivial.

The price at the pump spotlights for us just how much our buying power is declining, and the tough choices to come. Jay Schauer

If Dan Ariely’s purpose in writing his Op-Ed article was to make me like the fact that I am now paying more than $4 a gallon for gas, he is mistaken.
767 2008-07-24 Early results on the impact of Jumpstart’s work are promising. According to a report it commissioned from Cleveland State University, Jumpstart’s investments have generated ripple effects throughout northeastern Ohio, like the $56.3 million in goods and services produced and the creation of 346 new jobs. While the numbers are small now, Jumpstart believes those ripples will spread exponentially.

Similar efforts at spurring economic development have been bubbling up around the country, with varying degrees of government and private support, and they are often the biggest source of early stage financing for technology companies in their regions. They tend to be found where there is a steady supply of innovation coming out of nearby research universities.

One of the pioneers was the Ben Franklin Technology Partners in Pennsylvania, which was created in 1983 by the state’s governor at the time, Richard Thornburgh, to breathe new life into the state.

Jumpstart is led by Ray Leach, a serial technology entrepreneur who says he knows what it is like to build a successful company in northeastern Ohio because he has done it himself.

After a 20-year career building companies and advising others, Mr. Leach said he was ready to turn his attention to the macroeconomic condition of his home community and to lay a foundation for his own reinvention as a venture investor. Using a team of other serial entrepreneurs, former investment bankers and a board of local business luminaries, Jumpstart plays many roles.

Synapse Biomedical, a medical device company, is a typical Jumpstart company. Anthony Ignagni, one of the founders, encountered Jumpstart when he entered a business plan competition in 2003 at Case Western Reserve University, where a Jumpstart staff member was a judge. The company won $20,000 as well as introductions to people who gave feedback on its business plan.

In 2005, Jumpstart invested almost $300,000 in Synapse, and then worked closely with the company as it went on to raise nearly $5 million in a first round of venture financing. Just last month the company received approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a device intended to shorten the length of time patients remain on a respirator. Now that Synapse is more mature, Jumpstart plays a much smaller role.

Warren Goldenberg, a lawyer who specializes in technology deals, represented several clients working with Jumpstart before becoming a client himself when he assumed the chief executive’s role at CardioInsight Technologies, another medical technology company born out of research at Case Western Reserve.

“In Boston or Silicon Valley, you don’t need entities like Jumpstart. But here in the Midwest, you need a little goosing, and CardioInsight is a good example of a company that would not have existed if a group of organizations had not proactively worked to pull the pieces together to form it,” Mr. Goldenberg said.

Jumpstart relies on financing from a mix of private companies, foundations and government entities, all of whom are committed to nurturing local companies in northeastern Ohio. The region was so economically battered that in 2002 it was ranked last out of the 61 largest metropolitan areas in the United States in a survey by Entrepreneur Magazine of the best regions for entrepreneurship.

Mr. Leach likes to point out that by 2006, Cleveland had risen to the 23rd position. “My most cynical side says it’s a happy coincidence,” he said. “But clearly the momentum was starting.”

The federal government has also gotten behind Jumpstart’s efforts. Robert Sawyer, the Chicago regional director of the Federal Economic Development Administration, awarded it a $750,000 grant. Mr. Sawyer’s region encompasses six states — Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Illinois. “If I could seed a Jumpstart in each of those states, I would,” he said.

Innovation Works in Pittsburgh is a regional partner of the Ben Franklin Technology group and, like Jumpstart, is run by a former technology entrepreneur, Richard Lunak.

“When people think of technology entrepreneurs and venture capital, they think of Silicon Valley and that’s where they think it ends,” Mr. Lunak said. “But there is a lot going on in regions like Pittsburgh, which has over a billion dollars of federally funded research pouring into its universities annually.”

According to the Kauffmann Foundation, the most successful of these organizations are those led by a chief executive who has stood in the shoes of a start-up in that region. Mr. Lunak certainly fits the bill.

“I’m the C.E.O., but 18 years ago I helped start a medical technology company, Automated Healthcare, which was started with an $89,000 loan from Ben Franklin Technology Partners,” he said. “When I left, the company, which had since been acquired by McKesson Corporation, employed about 1,800 people. But it is still located in Pittsburgh. In that time, it has grown and acquired other businesses that have relocated to our region.”

He added that “it also drives a lot of other regional businesses, like suppliers of motors, amplifiers and sheet metal, so it has created both blue- and white-collar jobs. This is why these technology-based companies have sustainable competitive advantages.”

The Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center, a nonprofit affiliate of the city’s chamber of commerce, has been working to expand that city’s future businesses since 1999. David Weinstein, who was Mayor Richard M. Daley’s technology adviser before starting a couple of technology companies, prides himself on knowing what fledgling entrepreneurs need. “It comes down to three things: customers, capital and mentors,” Mr. Weinstein said.

To bolster the capital part of that equation, the Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center also started the Illinois Innovation Accelerator Fund, a $10 million for-profit venture fund that invests $250,000 to $1 million in companies that have yet to produce revenue.

Asked about the center’s results, Mr. Weinstein cites the connections it makes for its companies. “We measure how many introductions a year we make to our clients to potential customers and investors, and on average it is about a thousand a year,” he said. “It is all really tangible.”
768 2008-07-24 Laurie Anderson tried on a basketful of murky perspectives like so many pairs of sunglasses on Tuesday night, in the first of her five Lincoln Center Festival performances at the Rose Theater. She affected wry detachment in one moment and astral wonderment in the next. At times her coolness cloaked tremors of panic. As a narrator she was not only unreliable but also mercurial, and often splintered as if through a prism.

Ms. Anderson was presenting “Homeland,” her latest words-and-music opus, a version of which Nonesuch will release next year. And in a sense she was working in her signature mode, confronting a tangle of issues — from the political to the existential to the metaphysical — in terms that suggested elegy along with satire. A scattering of votive candles on the stage underscored a funereal atmosphere, and so did Ms. Anderson’s echo-treated violin annotations and organlike synthesizer hum.

The subject of “Homeland” is manifold, and at 90 minutes it’s a bit too much of a ramble. Ms. Anderson sounds more curmudgeonly than clever as she takes aim at billboard-size underwear advertisements — talk about broad targets — and a culture steeped in self-improvement. She was less arch on topics like the dislocation of identity, adopting a quasi-mystical tone on the sections called “Transitory Life” and “Bodies in Motion.” It was probably no accident that the spookiest moments were also some of the loveliest.

When the terrain was at its most harrowing, Ms. Anderson opted for a caustic clarity, as in this passage from “Callin’ Em Up,” provoked by images of baby-faced soldiers:

And then those questions come up, like:

Was the Constitution written in invisible ink? 

Has everybody here forgotten how to think? 

Is this great, great boat starting to sink?

Those words were sung rather than spoken, in a voice more vulnerable than the one Ms. Anderson usually employs. She pursued a similarly songlike effect elsewhere in “Homeland,” with help from her background singers, Shara Worden and Ambrosia Parsley. More integral contributions came from the violist Eyvind Kang, the accordionist-keyboardist Rob Burger, the bassist Greg Cohen and the drummer Joey Baron.

Ms. Anderson also gave herself some unaccompanied space, and filled it well. On “Mambo and Bling,” the most truly tragicomic piece in “Homeland,” she processed her voice through an electronic filter; for a moment she seemed like a wizard behind a curtain, without the curtain. The same voice treatment resurfaced for her take on the tyranny of images in our culture. “Pictures began to replace things,” she mused ruefully.
769 2008-07-24 AT&T, the telecommunications company, reported second-quarter results on Wednesday that contained signs that the weak economy was catching up to its previously steady results.

The company has had its stock hammered by the expectation that economic conditions were catching. The latest results affirmed that, as the company slightly missed analyst revenue expectations and reported an accelerating loss of landline subscribers.

However, investors were apparently expecting worse, and sent AT&T’s shares up 1.6 percent, to $32.33.

AT&T, which is based in Dallas, said sales of Apple’s second-generation iPhone, for which it is the exclusive American carrier, doubled those of the first iPhone model in the first 12 days of selling.

The latest iPhone went on sale July 11, after the end of the second quarter on June 30, so those sales were not part of the financial results reported Wednesday. AT&T said 40 percent of buyers were new to AT&T.
770 2008-07-24 Sovereignty over the 11thcentury temple, Preah Vihear, has been in dispute since the withdrawal of the French in the 1950s. Although it is easily accessible only from the Thai side, the International Court of Justice awarded sovereignty over the temple to Cambodia in 1962.

Despite the ambassador’s rhetorical escalation, Thailand’s prime minister, Samak Sundaravej, played down the dispute on Wednesday, predicting tensions would ease after the general election in Cambodia on Sunday.

“After the elections, they will soften their stance and talks will be easier,” he said. “Everything has been done for the July 27 poll and I need to keep quiet so as not to discredit Prime Minister Hun Sen, ” he said, referring to the Cambodian leader.

The two sides met on Monday but failed to resolve the dispute, which began earlier this month when Unesco listed the temple as a World Heritage Site, acting on an application from Cambodia and using a map supplied by Cambodia.

The two nations were taking part Wednesday in a meeting in Singapore of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, where diplomats from neighboring nations urged them to find a peaceful solution.

But the standoff was inflaming nationalist feelings in both countries that have flared into local violence in the past. Opposition politicians in both countries are accusing their governments of being soft in their dealings over the temple.

Mr. Samak’s government is under fire from its domestic opponents, for whom the temple is the latest issue in a long-running campaign that has already caused the resignation of a cabinet minister.

These critics accuse the government of selling out Thailand’s heritage to further the business interests of the former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in a coup in 2006 but whose supporters now control the government.

The National Counter Corruption Commission has begun to investigate Mr. Samak and his cabinet over accusations that the government violated the Thai Constitution by supporting Cambodia’s application for a World Heritage listing without consulting Parliament. In principle, the investigation could lead to the impeachment of the entire government.
771 2008-07-24 Boeing reported on Wednesday a bigger-than-expected 19 percent decline in quarterly profit as it took a charge on a delayed military plane contract and suffered the effects of its troubled 787 Dreamliner program.

The company, which is the world’s biggest-selling plane maker and the Pentagon’s No. 2 contractor, had lower sales at both its commercial and military operations, but held to its financial forecasts for this year and next, citing strong global demand for its products.

Boeing and its chief rival, Airbus, a unit of EADS, are hoping that high oil prices will spur demand for new fuel-efficient planes, but shares of both companies have suffered over the last few months as investors worry that prolonged increases in oil prices will drive more airlines into bankruptcy.

Boeing shares dropped 3.7 percent, to $66.72, on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.

Boeing’s chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., acknowledged the company’s order book was at risk from failing airlines, but said he was still confident it would hit delivery targets for this year and next.

“Clearly, economic conditions are tough for many of our commercial customers,” Mr. McNerney said in a conference call with analysts. “So far, we have experienced a minimal impact on backlog, with only a handful of deferrals by U.S. carriers. We have had no cancellations to speak of.”

Boeing does expect more deferrals and cancellations as a normal part of business, Mr. McNerney said, but added that the company was well positioned to deal with it.
772 2008-07-24 Kevin Johnson, the executive in charge of Microsoft’s struggling online business, is leaving the company. Microsoft announced Wednesday evening that Mr. Johnson was departing to become chief executive of Juniper Networks.

Mr. Johnson, 47, is leaving as his boss, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, is shaking up the senior management ranks in an effort to improve the fortunes of the company’s Internet search and advertising business. Microsoft is a distant third behind Google, the leader, and Yahoo in this field, having been unable to catch up despite heavy spending.

The change also comes after Microsoft’s failed bid for Yahoo. Mr. Johnson played a central role in negotiations with Yahoo.

Under the new plan, responsibility for the two businesses overseen by Mr. Johnson — online services and the Windows operating system unit — will be separated.

Microsoft, in a statement, acknowledged that it needed new leadership to lift the performance of the online services business. The company said it would “create a new senior lead position and will conduct a search that will span internal and external candidates.”
773 2008-07-24 FISHMAN--Sylvia (Weiss man) , 92, died at home on July 22, 2008. Survived by beloved and loving husband Bob, daughters Ellen (Albano), Miriam (Daniel), grandchildren Leo, Lena, Isa, Gabriel, nieces and nephews. Devoted to her family and to the gre...
774 2008-07-24 HOUSING BILL The House approved a far-reaching government assistance package for the nation's housing market, and the White House said President Bush would sign the bill.      SHIFTING FOCUS Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive of the Ford Motor C...
775 2008-07-25 During an interview with CNN, Senator John McCain called a 16-month timetable for withdrawing American troops from Iraq "a pretty good timetable."...
776 2008-07-25 The Republican candidate paints his opponent's positions on the war in Iraq as the "audacity of hopelessness."...
777 2008-07-25 Olive balls are a Ligurian snack that works well with a glass of wine....
778 2008-07-25 It is a brutal time for many hedge funds: A few have shut down in the last year or so, and lots of others have gotten skimpy returns, prompting apologetic letters to investors - who generally expect big profits for the hefty fees they pay. So it m...
779 2008-07-25 Microsoft has tried various tactics to expand its share of the lucrative online search business. It recently failed in its pursuit of Yahoo. It is paying people to use its search engine. Now Microsoft thinks it has found a promising source of user...
780 2008-07-25 A sharp drop in June home sales started the stock market off on a sour note Thursday and new worries about banks sent shares into a slide. Financial shares such as Citigroup and Lehman Brothers plunged, snapping a six-session winning streak, as pr...
781 2008-07-25 The private equity owners of Roadrunner Transportation Services are seeking to cash out of their investment in the trucking and logistics company via an initial public offering. The company, which filed for an I.P.O. on Thursday, didn't say how ma...
782 2008-07-25 Wachovia, which posted a record $8.86 billion second-quarter loss Tuesday, said Chief Financial Officer Thomas Wurtz will resign from the fourth-largest U.S. bank after a successor is named. Mr. Wurtz, 46, joined Wachovia in 1994, and was named C....
783 2008-07-25 Whatever your opinion of mumblecore, the indie subgenre that Jay and Mark Duplass helped invent, there is no doubt that the Duplass brothers, a writing and directing team, have sophisticated radar trained on the undercurrents of contemporary relationships. The shallow, crabby characters in their second feature film, “Baghead,” are uncomfortably recognizable. Beyond chewing over their own insecurities, these smart, self-absorbed people have little to say.

The Duplass radar made the brothers’ first feature, “The Puffy Chair,” a cult hit, and it functions just as efficiently in “Baghead,” a comedy-horror spoof that superficially resembles “The Blair Witch Project.” The four main characters — Chad (Steve Zissis), Michelle (Greta Gerwig), Matt (Ross Partridge) and Catherine (Elise Muller) — are actors and writers on the fringes of Hollywood whose relationships are complicated by sexual signals they exchange but are loath to acknowledge. That’s the way it often is with mumblecore characters, urbane slackers whose inhibitions keep them on edge.

Chad, who suggests a chubby younger cousin of Jim Belushi, is besotted with Michelle, who resembles a younger, prettier cousin of Ellen DeGeneres. Michelle hankers for Matt, a rangy, obnoxiously smug rogue, whose on-again, off-again 11-year relationship with Catherine (Ms. Muller is a Deborah Kara Unger look-alike) has reached a critical turning point.

When the cow-eyed Chad pesters Michelle to describe her feelings for him, she replies that he is like a best friend and brother rolled into one. As he moves in to kiss her, she turns her cheek. He is crushed but keeps silent. To ease her discomfort, Michelle stays drunk much of the time.

After Catherine idly asks Matt to rate a part of her body on a scale of 1 to 10 and he gives it an 8.3, she peevishly responds that that was the wrong answer. Sounding patently insincere and a little contemptuous, Matt revises his rating to 11, which Catherine sullenly accepts. Whatever they may decide about their future, the scene lets you know that these two vain, self-centered people will be stuck in this dynamic for the foreseeable future.
784 2008-07-25 Three members of a ballistic missile crew at Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota fell asleep while holding classified launch code devices this month, resulting in an investigation by military and National Security Agency experts, the Air Force said. The inquiry found that the missile launch codes were not compromised in the July 12 episode. A continuing review by Minot commanders will determine what, if any, actions will be taken against the crew members.
785 2008-07-25 The United Nations secretary general named a South African judge, Navanethem Pillay, as the next high commissioner for human rights, an appointment expected to be approved Monday by the General Assembly. Ms. Pillay has served since 2003 as a judge at the International Criminal Court in The Hague and was previously the presiding judge of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. A defense lawyer for apartheid-era political prisoners, she was the first woman to start a law practice in Natal Province, South Africa, officials said, and the first nonwhite woman to serve as a High Court judge in that country.
786 2008-07-25 Curiously, the new visas were announced in Baghdad, at the American Embassy, and not in Washington, where Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department spokesman, said he was not initially aware that there was a report of an increase. “One of the things is that we have been working to allow for a greater number of those Iraqis who did work for us to be able to come to the United States,” he said.

Last year a similar program allowed only 500 Iraqi and Afghan translators to apply, and in 2006 the number was 50. This program, written by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, differs from previous ones because of its scale, because people can apply in Iraq and because they will receive transitional assistance during their first eight months in the United States.

Until this year, Iraqis seeking to emigrate had to go to Jordan, Syria or Egypt. For many the trip was too expensive or they were unable to get visas to gain entry to those countries.

A second program, also established in January, whose rules were announced about six weeks ago, allows Iraqi employees of American nonprofit organizations, media companies and contractors to apply directly for refugee status instead of waiting for a referral from the United Nations. Like the special immigrant visa program, they can apply in Iraq and will be given support initially in the United States. Technically, anyone who qualifies will be accepted, State Department officials said.

But immigration experts warn that because there is a global cap on the number of refugees that the United States accepts and the slots are allocated by region — with some flexibility — it is possible that either Iraqi refugees will squeeze out others who are equally deserving or that not all Iraqi refugees who are eligible will be granted a space.

“We have to push the U.S. to increase the number of refugees it resettles because this is a massive crisis and we do have primary responsibility,” said Amelia Templeton, a refugee analyst at Human Rights First, an advocacy group based in New York. She added that the ceiling for the region that includes Iraq is 28,000 people and that the United States target for Iraqi refugees was 12,000.

Still, together these programs will cover many of the Iraqis who are at risk of being attacked as collaborators by anti-American groups in Iraq. Richard Albright, the State Department’s senior coordinator for refugees and internally displaced people at the embassy in Baghdad, said that he did not believe that the 25,000 cap over five years would cover all American Embassy employees and translators.

The visa programs grew largely because of the combined lobbying efforts of “refugee experts, nonprofit organizations, United States government employees who worked in Iraq and American soldiers and marines,” Ms. Templeton said.

American military officers and State Department employees who were loyal to the Iraqi translators with whom they had worked were forceful in personalizing the plight of Iraqis who were imperiled. Death threats were put on the Iraqis’ windshields, bullets were left on their doorsteps, they or family members were kidnapped, and sometimes their homes were bombed.

Even if Iraqis make it to the United States, they face the difficulty of finding jobs and supporting family members. Often just one person in a family of six or eight speaks any English, making it difficult for the others to help the family with daily life and to hold down a job. Medical care, which is free in Iraq, must be paid for in the United States. Although it is possible for refugees to apply for Medicaid, there are bureaucratic obstacles that could prove daunting for people who do not speak English.

Elissa Mittman, national immigration director for the International Rescue Committee, called the move “a step in the right direction.” But she added that the State Department and Congress must still seek ways to expand the program, and to make sure that there was enough financing to help the new Iraqi immigrants once they arrived in the United States.
787 2008-07-25 “G.O.P, Gas and Oil Party,” said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts. “That’s what this is all about.”

It was the third time in recent weeks that House Democrats had produced a majority for their energy-related bills but were unable to advance them. They are using rules that require a larger majority to prevent Republicans from offering proposals to lift a ban on drilling off much of the nation’s coastline.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi restated Thursday that she did not intend to clear the way for such a vote, saying environmental restrictions on offshore drilling are not the cause of high gasoline prices, which she attributes to the policies of President Bush.

“What the president would like to do is to have validation for his failed policy,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters. “I’m saying that that’s not something that will come easily to him. What we’re saying is, ‘Exhaust other remedies, Mr. President.’ ”

In the Senate, Republicans are expected on Friday to defeat a Democratic call to resolve the stalled debate over a measure to curb excessive speculation in oil markets. Republicans have insisted that they be allowed to offer amendments and have not been able to agree on the parameters of the debate with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader.

Mr. Reid and fellow members of the Democratic leadership said Thursday that Republicans had refused overtures allowing them the opportunity to force a vote on offshore drilling, which Democrats interpreted as a sign that Republicans were not interested in votes but were simply trying to earn political mileage out of the issue of high gasoline prices. They also say Republicans are too focused on drilling as a solution to a problem that calls for a broader and more innovative approach.

“They are riding a one-trick pony,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate.

Republicans continued their push for offshore drilling. Senator Larry E. Craig, an Idaho Republican who sits on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said that if given the chance he would propose drilling within 50 miles of Florida’s coast in the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling there is currently banned.

“What we know is that where we were allowed to drill, down in the Gulf of Mexico, that’s where a majority of our current oil supplies are coming from, even in the deep water,” Mr. Craig said. “But off the coasts of California, Oregon, Washington, Virginia, the Carolinas and Florida, it’s: ‘No. Heck, no.’ The politics won’t let us go there.”

In an effort to break the stalemate, Senate Democrats, led by Mr. Reid and Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, the chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, offered a proposal that would accelerate the leasing of areas in Alaska and waters farther off Florida that are not under the ban on coastal drilling. The bill would also give the Interior Department new authority to prod oil companies into moving more quickly to explore their leases.

The energy committee said the areas in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico that Democrats are focusing on hold quantities of oil and natural gas that could displace imports from the Persian Gulf countries for decades. The proposal also incorporates the efforts on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve that failed in the House on Thursday and requires conservation measures estimated to save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day within eight years.
788 2008-07-25 The 3M Company, the maker of Post-its and Scotch tape, said Thursday that its second-quarter profit rose slightly on double-digit growth in international markets, led by sales in Latin America.

The company also announced a 20 percent staff reduction in its struggling display and graphics business, mostly in the United States. The company said it believed that its cost-cutting efforts and consolidation in its Asia operations would save roughly $30 million a year.

In the quarter, the company earned $945 million, or $1.33 a share, compared with $917 million, or $1.25 a share, in the period a year earlier.

The latest results included one-time charges of 6 cents a share. Excluding those items, 3M said it earned $1.39 a share in the most recent quarter.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial, on average, expected earnings of $1.35 a share on net sales of $6.69 billion.

The company benefited from the weak dollar, as two-thirds of 3M sales came from overseas. Sales were up 32 percent in Latin America, 18 percent in Europe, 14 percent in Canada and, excluding certain items, up 17 percent in Asia Pacific. Currency exchange rates increased 3M’s sales growth in the quarter by 5.4 percentage points.
789 2008-07-25 Dow Chemical posted second-quarter earnings on Thursday that fell short of expectations as its price increases did not completely offset higher energy and raw material costs.

The chemical maker, the nation’s largest, reported net income of $762 million, or 81 cents a share. That was down from a year-ago profit of $1.04 billion, or $1.07 a share, and below Wall Street’s expectations of 85 cents a share.

Quarterly revenue rose 23.5 percent, to $16.38 billion, driven by price increases and strong volume growth in overseas markets. Analysts on average had forecast revenue of $14.90 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.

Dow said its feedstock and energy costs in the quarter surged 42 percent, or $2.4 billion, to just below $8 billion, the largest year-over-year increase in the company’s history.

The chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris, said the full impact of the company’s price increases would be reflected in the third quarter. If cost pressures do not abate, he said, the company might be forced to increase prices more.
790 2008-07-25 A glance at the day’s worst performers highlighted the overlap between bank woes and mortgage troubles. Shares of Fannie Mae, the mortgage buyer, dipped 20 percent despite a rebound in recent days. Its sister company, Freddie Mac, was off 18 percent.

Shares of National City lost 2 percent after the Cleveland-based bank reported a $1.8 billion loss for the second quarter. It increased its reserves to $1.6 billion to protect against losses, more than 10 times the level from a year ago. “We aren’t going to be in a big hurry to declare that the corner has been turned and it all gets better from here,” said the chief executive, Peter E. Raskind.

Shares of Washington Mutual, which reported a $3.3 billion loss on Tuesday, fell 13.8 percent after losing more than 20 percent on Wednesday.

An analyst at Gimme Credit suggested that many of the bank’s creditors were “quietly pulling funds,” a claim the bank called misguided.

The report, however, forced Washington Mutual to take the unusual step of issuing a statement about its financial strength for the second time in a week.

A California savings and loan, Downey Financial, watched its stock drop 34 percent after announcing its fourth consecutive loss and a shake-up in management. The bank said it was exploring “strategic alternatives,” which most likely means a sale, analysts said, given the challenge of raising capital.

Big banks like Citigroup and Lehman Brothers, which had record gains in the last week, plunged. As a group, shares of financial firms listed in the S.& P. 500 lost 6.3 percent Thursday.

Oil prices also moved higher. Crude oil futures settled $1.05 higher, at $125.49 a barrel in New York trading.

Before the market opened, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the housing market, tumbled 2.6 percent in June after a 2 percent increase in May. The report reinforced fears that a weak job market and tight credit were discouraging home buyers.

June sales slowed to an annual rate of 4.86 million, adjusted for seasonal variables. Total sales were 15.5 percent below their level in June 2007.

Western states reported higher sales, with a 1 percent increase. But every other region saw declines, with sales falling 6.6 percent in the Northeast, 3.4 percent in the Midwest and 3.1 percent in the South.

Across the country, the decline came from a 3.2 percent drop in sales of single-family homes; apartment and condominium sales increased 1.7 percent for the month.

The report was “a little bit of a catalyst” for the stock market, said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. He said, however, that the declines in the Dow industrials were more likely attributable to profit-taking after the market’s recent gains.

At the current sales rate, it would take more than 11 months to sell the current inventory of unsold homes, and some economists thought that estimate may be understated.

“Inventories are very high relative to sales rates, and would probably be even more so if all those wishing to sell their home actually had the house on the market instead of pulling it off in the face of weak demand and eroding prices,” wrote Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR.

Home prices have risen modestly for the last four months, but they remain 6.1 percent below a year ago. The median price of a previously owned home in June was $215,100.

Many Americans expect home prices to fall further in the next year, the Realtors group said, and many would-be buyers may be holding out.

In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said that new unemployment claims rose 34,000 last week, to 406,000, the highest level since the month after Hurricane Katrina.

In the bond market, the price of the 10-year note rose 30/32, to 99. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dipped to 4 percent, from 4.12 percent on Wednesday.

Following are the results of Thursday’s Treasury auction of five-year notes:
791 2008-07-25 But there are also plenty of self-inflicted wounds that account for what may fairly be called a crisis of confidence.

How can riders brim with confidence when promises of improved service on subway and bus lines fade into the ether almost as soon as they are made?

How can they think highly of some wealthy authority board members who clung desperately to their free-travel perks until forced to surrender them? This issue was one more of appearances than of substance. But appearances count. It was hardly a confidence builder to have people in command enjoying free rides while telling ordinary passengers to dig deeper into their pockets.

The authority’s chairman, H. Dale Hemmerdinger, a rich developer with no background in mass transit, showed that he didn’t quite get it. After the storm over the free travel passes, he sent an e-mail message to various state officials complaining that “the politicians and press are focusing on little issues.”

The “real story,” Mr. Hemmerdinger said, is that “the board and senior management are doing a good job.” As proof, he noted that “the system has never been more on time” and that “the distance between breakdowns is the longest it has ever been.” If he had patted himself on the back any harder, he might have broken his hand.

That was a month ago. This week, Mr. Hemmerdinger and his board were handed grim figures showing that the number of subway train delays had soared by 24 percent from May 2007 to May 2008. The distance that cars traveled between mechanical problems declined over the year by 5 percent, continuing an unhappy trend that has been evident for three years.

Not exactly a confidence builder, are they, those numbers?

How can working stiffs be expected to absorb three fare increases with equanimity at the same time that the authority’s senior managers are getting pay raises and possible bonuses? The enhanced salaries are needed to keep talented people from jumping ship, says the authority’s executive director, Elliot G. Sander, who got a $10,000 raise. He may be right. But even he had to acknowledge that the timing could have been a whole lot better.

For sure, the crisis of confidence has some roots in deals made before either Mr. Sander or Mr. Hemmerdinger came on board.

Remember the authority’s plan to move from Midtown to a building in Lower Manhattan? In less than five years, the costs tripled, to well over $400 million. And how about those Jets? They wanted to build a football stadium above railyards on the West Side. The authority agreed to sell them the development rights for $250 million, never mind that its own appraisers put the value at more than $900 million.

With the authority’s plan for higher fares, public confidence is not likely to be enhanced after New York’s businessman turned mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, offered these dismissive words: “That’s just poor management.”

Meanwhile, many daily riders perceive subway service to be fraying at the edges. The situation is nowhere near as dire as it was 30 years ago. Still, there are little things: a train door that doesn’t open, a car whose air-conditioning conks out, a train that sits in the tunnel while the conductor makes a barely audible appeal for patience over a balky intercom.

Like appearances, perceptions count. Once they take hold, they are hard to shake loose.
792 2008-07-25 But this week, these civil servants, called traffic enforcement agents, achieved a level of respect that they said had been too long coming. Because of a new state law that took effect on Tuesday, drivers will face felony charges if they assault an agent. They can face up to seven years in prison; previously, such an assault was a misdemeanor, with a one-year maximum.

The change in the state’s Penal Law puts traffic agents on a par with police officers and firefighters, at least when they are being attacked. According to police figures, that happens at least once a week.

Agents have war stories about being slapped, kicked, spat upon, slashed with razors and shot at. They have sustained broken jaws or feet when enraged drivers punched them or ran over them.

Efforts to make any assault on a traffic agent a felony, even if it does not result in serious injury, spanned more than two decades, but were often greeted with shrugs. The president of the union that represents some of the agents, James S. Huntley, said legislators did not see the change as a priority. “We were called ‘meter maids,’ ” he said.

Assemblywoman Helene E. Weinstein of Brooklyn said that she has often been asked why she backed the change in the law. “I had constituents stopping me on the street saying, ‘Why are you doing that? They don’t deserve that,’ ” she said. “I did feel that they were to a large extent the public’s punching bags.”

The public’s low regard for traffic agents could be measured one evening last week on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens. In stifling heat, four agents directed cars jockeying for position on their way to Shea Stadium for the Billy Joel concert.

The agents mastered a two-step that could be called “dodge and ignore.”

They planted themselves firmly on the painted center line separating traffic and shuffled back and forth to avoid cars that strayed outside the lanes. Watching drivers’ every move, they tried to avoid getting slammed in the hip by side mirrors and did their best to ignore the occasional rude gesture.

“Sometimes people are waving at you, and you think they are trying to say ‘hi,’ ” said Fredricka V. Bostic, 46, a supervisor overseeing the traffic direction.

Drivers are not the agents’ only concern. Last week, Agent Richard L. Ingram, 58, managing the mayhem at Broadway and Chambers Street, warned a woman to beware of oncoming traffic as she darted across the street. She rolled her eyes dismissively and continued on.

“The public doesn’t know what we put up with here,” he said, never taking his eyes off traffic as he spoke to a reporter, gave directions to tourists and other pedestrians and gestured furiously to keep cars moving.

“We try to make it easy to get from Point A to Point B safely, and they curse us,” he said, sticking out in the chaos in his bright orange vest and white cap, pulled low over his sweating brow.

Traffic agents were once part of the Department of Transportation and were known as “brownies” for the color of their uniforms. But in 1996, they were subsumed by the Police Department, a move partly intended to emphasize their image as law enforcement officers.

There are about 3,000 agents, who earn roughly $27,000 to $42,000 a year, compared with $35,881 to $65,382 for uniformed police officers. A recent want ad for agents noted in the job description: “They are sometimes confronted by motorists who are angry about summonses.”

The agents wear blue uniforms, similar to the ones police officers wear, but they do not carry weapons. If trouble arises, they call the police, like everyone else.

It was police officers who came to help Agent O’Bleanis in Midtown. He said he had told the driver of a BMW to move. The driver refused, got out of the car and used racial slurs. Agent O’Bleanis told him to step back, but after some shoving the two ended up on the ground. The agent held the man in a headlock until the police arrived. During the tussle he was bitten and his knuckle was fractured.

Daniel J. Castleman, the chief assistant district attorney in Manhattan, said that the defendant in the case, Grant Dimille, pleaded guilty to assault. But Mr. Castleman said that Agent O’Bleanis’s injuries were not serious enough to classify the attack as a felony and the charges became a misdemeanor.

Mr. Dimille was sentenced to seven days of community service, a common sentence for a first offender, and was told to go to an anger-management class and to apologize to Agent O’Bleanis, Mr. Castleman said.

“Obviously a case like this we can now prosecute as a felony, and we will do so,” Mr. Castleman said. “We certainly were supportive of the legislation and this is a case that points out why the legislation was needed.”

The police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, said that he hoped the change would eliminate assaults, which he said climbed from about 40 in 2006, to 60 last year and to about 50 so far this year.

One of those cases involved Agent Latoya Clarke, 32, who had been on the job for five months when she was assaulted in May of last year. She was writing a $115 summons for a vehicle blocking traffic at First Avenue and 61st Street. The driver was sitting in the car and grabbed her arm.

“I wrestled to get away from him and he took off,” she said, adding that she had torn ligaments and a shoulder injury. “I can’t lift my arm. I can’t even comb my hair. I am disabled for $115.”

Another agent said she was slapped so hard in the face by a driver after putting a summons on his windshield that her tooth was cracked. In 2005, a motorist drove onto her foot after she wrote a summons and would not move, she said.

“People think because we don’t carry guns we are not police officers and they can say whatever they want to us,” said the agent, Rachel, 31. “People hate us so much I don’t want to give my full name. I don’t want people to know my job. I live in a neighborhood where I write tickets, too.”
793 2008-07-25 Earnings at the newspaper publisher McClatchy and the media company E. W. Scripps both fell more than 40 percent in the second quarter on sharp declines in newspaper revenue.

At McClatchy, whose papers include The Miami Herald and The Sacramento Bee, earnings tumbled 44 percent as ad revenue continued to decline in its major markets. McClatchy, based in Sacramento, Calif., said Thursday that net income was $19.7 million, or 24 cents a share, compared with $35.2 million, or 43 cents, in the period a year ago.

Adjusted to exclude one-time items, income fell to $17.3 million, or 21 cents a share, matching the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

Revenue dropped 16 percent, to $489.7 million, and missed Wall Street’s projection of $495 million. Advertising revenue fell 17 percent and circulation revenue fell 5 percent. Revenue from McClatchy’s online properties jumped 12.5 percent and accounted for nearly 12 percent of the total, up more than 4 percentage points from the same period last year.

The company continues to trim costs, including reducing its staff by 1,400 positions, or 10 percent, and said it would “look at additional cost-saving measures as necessary.” Shares of McClatchy fell 24 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $4.74.

At Scripps, which is reporting consolidated results for its newspapers, TV stations, cable networks and Web sites for the last quarter, profit fell 47 percent, partly because of the cost of spinning off its digital and cable network businesses. On July 1, the start of its third quarter, it formed Scripps Networks Interactive with its cable networks and online shopping sites.
794 2008-07-25 The military contractor Raytheon said Thursday that lower pension expenses and higher missile sales raised second-quarter income from continuing operations 20 percent.

The company, based in Waltham, Mass., said it earned $426 million, or $1 a share, in the quarter, down from $1.33 billion, or $2.97 a share, in the year-earlier period. The 2007 second-quarter results were helped by $980 million from the sale of Raytheon’s aircraft division.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected 94 cents a share this year in quarterly earnings from continuing operations.

Raytheon also raised its outlook for 2008 by 15 cents, to $3.80 to $3.95 a share, on sales of $22.6 billion to $23.1 billion.

Sales rose 11 percent, to $5.9 billion, helped by missiles and laser-guided bombs.
795 2008-07-25 Mr. Dudley called his departure “temporary,” but it was unclear when he might return, or how he would manage the company, which has more than 60,000 employees and nearly 100 subsidiaries, from outside the country. About 50 expatriate staff members remain at TNK-BP, though not all have received work visas.

“In the light of the uncertainties surrounding the status of my work visa and the sustained harassment of the company and myself,” Mr. Dudley said in his statement, “I have decided to leave and to work outside Russia temporarily.”

BP executives criticized their Russian partners and the Russian government.

The British company’s chief executive, Anthony B. Hayward, and chairman, Peter Sutherland, condemned what amounted to Mr. Dudley’s expulsion from Russia, calling it a low point in BP’s 100-year history of working in “every corner of the globe.”

On Tuesday, BP withdrew from Russia all of its geologists and engineers involved in the TNK-BP venture.

Mr. Sutherland, in a statement, said BP was fighting a corporate takeover by its Russian partners that appeared to be backed by the Russian authorities. The government, however, maintains that it is a private shareholder dispute.

Mr. Hayward suggested that BP would turn to international arbitration to recover losses from the Russian partners, a consortium of billionaires known as AAR. They include Viktor Vekselberg, Mikhail Fridman, German Khan and Leonid Blavatnik. Mr. Blavatnik is of Russian descent but lives in New York and is an American citizen.

The Russian partners have called for Mr. Dudley’s ouster, citing poor performance — which BP disputes. The Russian shareholders also say his employment contract expired last year.

Russia is the world’s second largest oil exporting nation, after Saudi Arabia. Since oil prices started to spiral upward in 2003, the Russian authorities have orchestrated the sale of assets or the renegotiation of deals between foreign oil giants and several Russian companies.

The implications for BP’s future oil supply from Russia were unclear.

Many industry analysts predict that a company controlled by the Russian government, like Gazprom or Rosneft, will eventually assume control of the joint venture, while BP may remain as a minority partner.

Mr. Dudley, on Thursday for the first time, directly accused the Russian authorities of involvement in the dispute.

“The company and I have faced unprecedented investigations, proceedings, inquiries and other burdens,” he said.
796 2008-07-25 Barack Obama proposes to make health care affordable for all Americans with an injection of cash from the repeal of the Bush tax cuts and with savings realized from electronic health information technology and programs to improve disease prevention and chronic disease management.

While better record-keeping and prevention and management programs would improve the quality of our medical system, there is little data that they would actually save money. They certainly would not do so for many years.

Most waste in our health care system is a result of our reliance on private health insurers. Having multiple competing insurers results in costs for marketing, underwriting, billing, claims adjudication, executive salaries and profit.

Administrative costs account for 31 percent of all health care spending in the United States, but only 17 percent in Canada’s single payer system. The administrative costs of America’s own single-payer system, Medicare, are only about 3 percent, compared with 12 to 15 percent for private insurers.

If Mr. Obama wants to save enough to provide health care for every American, he needs to open the debate to include consideration of Medicare for all in the United States. Rachel Nardin

The writer, an assistant professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, is chairwoman of the Massachusetts chapter of Physicians for a National Health Program.

Apparently economists and both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain think that there are too many unnecessary expenses in our health care system. My question is, “Unnecessary” according to whom? A bean counter at some insurance company? An unapproachable government bureaucrat?

I’m sure that there are many high-cost and low-success-rate procedures that are statistically unnecessary, but if one of those procedures represents the only chance of survival for a friend or relative, it will seem very necessary to me.

There is no question that we spend a lot of money on health care in this country. Let’s not rule out the possibility that we are getting our money’s worth.

You provide an excellent summary of the most controversial features of Barack Obama’s health plan. But the proposed revenue sources are as ephemeral as the projected savings.

The plan assumes that reversal of previous tax cuts on those making more than $250,000 would finance the plan. But haven’t all of those funds already been earmarked to pay for new tax cuts for the middle class? And haven’t they also been promised to finance more generous Medicare prescription drug benefits?

And are all the increased revenues from reversing those tax cuts also cited as the key element in eliminating the budget deficit? Richard E. Ralston

An important element that should be added to the debate over Senator Barack Obama’s health plan is the cost-saving potential of providing coverage to the uninsured. Since insurance works by spreading risk, the more people who sign up for a health plan, the lower the premiums will be for families who already have insurance.

This simple law of health care economics featured prominently in the debate over health insurance mandates during the presidential primaries. In January, a much-publicized report by Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at M.I.T., found that, all else being equal, a health care proposal that mandated coverage for all would cost $1,700 less per newly insured individual than one without added incentives for enrollment.

Now that the primaries are over, Mr. Obama should acknowledge the limitations of an approach that does not include a mandate and work to achieve true cost savings by ensuring that his plan is truly universal. Robert Nelb

The writer is a senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institution.
797 2008-07-25 “We’ve had such a strong run especially in the financials,” Ryan Larson, a trader at Voyageur Asset Management, said. “A lot of people are taking money off the table.”

Big bank stocks like Citigroup and Lehman Brothers, which had seen record gains in the last week, plunged again. As a group, shares of financial firms listed in the S.&P. 500 lost 6.3 percent on Thursday alone.

National City shares lost 2.1 percent after the holding company reported a $1.8 billion loss for the second quarter. Washington Mutual was off 13.3 percent after losing more than 20 percent on Wednesday.

Oil prices also moved higher. Crude oil futures rose $1.05, to $125.49 a barrel in New York trading.

The painful home sales report, released before the markets opened, started the day off on a sour note. Sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the housing market, tumbled 2.6 percent in June after a 2 percent increase in May, according to a private trade group.

The report from the National Association of Realtors reinforced fears that the weak job market and scarcity of credit are discouraging Americans from buying homes. Those who may be in the market for a house may find it harder to take out a mortgage.

Housing-related stocks were among the day’s worst performers. Shares of Fannie Mae, which had recovered in recent days, dipped 20 percent. Its sister company, Freddie Mac, was off 18 percent.

The declines came a day after the House passed legislation aimed at shoring up the beleaguered mortgage buyers. The bill will potentially help hundreds of thousands of Americans avoid foreclosure with an infusion of government-backed loans and state financing. The Senate is expected to take up the bill this week and President Bush has said he will reluctantly sign it.

But the Realtors’ report suggested that the woes in the housing market would not end soon. June sales slowed to an annual rate of 4.86 million, adjusted for seasonal variables, after a 2 percent increase in May. Total sales were 15.5 percent below their level in June 2007.

Western states reported higher sales, with a 1 percent increase. But every other region saw declines, with sales falling 6.6 percent in the Northeast, 3.4 percent in the Midwest and 3.1 percent in the South.

Across the country, the decline came from a 3.2 percent drop in sales of single-family homes; apartment and condominium sales increased 1.7 percent for the month.

The report was “a little bit of a catalyst” for the stock market, said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. But he said the declines in the Dow were more likely attributable to profit-taking after the market’s recent gains. “No one in a general sense was really expecting anything great out of those numbers anyway,” he said, referring to the home sales report.

At the current sales rate, it would take more than 11 months to sell off the current inventory of unsold homes, and some economists thought that estimate may be understated.

“Inventories are very high relative to sales rates, and would probably be even more so if all those wishing to sell their home actually had the house on the market instead of pulling it off in the face of weak demand and eroding prices,” wrote Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at the research firm MFR.

Home prices have risen modestly for the last four months, but they remain 6.1 percent below their level from a year ago. The median price of a previously owned home in June was $215,100.

Many Americans expect home prices to fall further in the next year, the Realtors group said, which means many would-be buyers are holding out.

Weak job prospects are also having a dampening effect. In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said that new unemployment claims rose 34,000 last week to 406,000, the highest level since the month after Hurricane Katrina.
798 2008-07-25 ZURICH (Reuters) — Credit Suisse posted a smaller-than-expected fall in second-quarter earnings on Thursday as it managed more cash for the world’s wealthy and its investment banking unit returned to profit.

The Swiss bank’s earnings easily beat analysts’ forecasts, despite falling 62 percent to 1.2 billion Swiss francs ($1.16 billion), because of smaller asset write-downs than expected. Its investment bank, private bank and asset management business all posted profits.

A Reuters poll of analysts had forecast profit of 526 million francs.

A reduction in risk exposure, the small write-down and strong inflows for private banking were all positive, analysts said.

The first results from a big European bank for the second quarter also backed up signs from American rivals that banks could be through the worst of the write-downs ignited by the subprime mortgage crisis and subsequent credit squeeze.

The result “could be the confirmation of the beginning of the end of the financial crisis,” an analyst at WestLB, Georg Kanders, said.
799 2008-07-25 MICROSOFT has tried various tactics to expand its share of the lucrative online search business.

It recently failed in its pursuit of Yahoo. It is paying people to use its search engine. Now Microsoft thinks it has found a promising source of users for its foundering search service: Facebook, the social networking site.

Microsoft said Thursday at a meeting with financial analysts at its headquarters in Redmond, Wash., that it would soon begin providing Web search services and associated advertisements by the end of the year on the American portion of the popular social network.

The agreement augments an existing advertising deal that the companies struck in 2006 and later expanded globally. Microsoft already sells and manages display advertisements on Facebook. Last October, the companies inched even closer together when Microsoft invested $240 millionfor a 5 percent ownership stake in Facebook.

The search deal could be a lift to Microsoft as it seeks to catch up with Google and Yahoo in the search business. In June, Google accounted for 61.5 percent of search queries in the United States, dwarfing Yahoo, with 20.9 percent, and Microsoft, with 9.2 percent of queries, according to tracking firm comScore. One of the reasons Microsoft pursued Yahoo so doggedly this year was to increase its share in the overall market.

To Microsoft, Facebook is a quick way to expand the audience for its search engine. More than 29 million people actively use Facebook in the United States. They will soon see prominent displays of Microsoft’s Live Search box on their friends’ and their own Facebook pages.
800 2008-07-25 “It’s a significant spill, if for nothing else because of its impact on the water supply,” Commander Ben-Iesau said. “We’ve got a lot of commerce dependent on this water supply, so we’re scrambling to get it cleaned up.”

On Thursday afternoon, the picturesque walk along the Mississippi at the French Quarter, normally full of tourists and pedestrians, was nearly deserted as a pungent chemical stench wafted up from the oil-covered water. A few skimmer boats, deployed to suck up the oil, constituted the only traffic on the nearly half-mile-wide river; a plastic boom to contain the fuel hugged the rocky shoreline, and the seagulls had disappeared.

“It’s going to take a good couple of weeks to get it all off,” said Petty Officer Jesse Kavanaugh of the Coast Guard, surveying the oily muck. Officials were unable to predict how long the river might remain closed, however. “We’re hoping days, not weeks,” Commander Ben-Iesau said.

The 61-foot barge that has been leaking heavy fuel oil for nearly two days could be seen underneath the mammoth Crescent City Connection bridge. It was carrying 419,000 gallons of the heavy fuel it had just picked up from an oil distributor when it collided with a 600-foot tanker ship around 1:30 a.m., just off this city’s Uptown neighborhoods. The tanker did not leak.

Coast Guard officials said the towboat operator pushing the barge, from the local DRD Towing Company, was improperly licensed, possessing only the equivalent of an apprentice certificate. They said the incident was being closely investigated, though no blame had yet been assigned.

Oil continued to leak from the barge Thursday afternoon, and the Coast Guard was deploying a diver to check the flow.

Mayor C. Ray Nagin told residents of the city’s neighborhoods on the east bank of the Mississippi that they could safely drink the tap water, though he was more cautious about water in the one neighborhood on the west bank, Algiers. Meanwhile, water intake facilities in the neighboring parishes of St. Bernard and Plaquemines remained closed. There were no respiratory risks, officials said, despite the sometimes heavy odor.

As the oil slick moved downstream, officials remained concerned about the impact on the Delta National Wildlife Refuge, at the mouth of the Mississippi, and they were scrambling to place booms around it. Tens of thousands of feet of the plastic booms had already been put in place Thursday. If the oil flows through the main pass, or outlet, and on into the Gulf of Mexico, the effect will be limited; but if it seeps into the secondary passes, there is a more serious risk to the environment, they said.

“I’m very concerned, but I don’t think it’s a calamity of the proportions of Exxon Valdez,” said Robert A. Thomas, director of the Center for Environmental Communication at Loyola University. “Here, you’re talking about an enormous amount of oil, but it’s in a river that averages about 450,000 thousand cubic feet per second of flow,” he said.

“It’s going to flush this stuff out,” Mr. Thomas said.

Officials were generally guarded about the possible effects on fish, plants and wildlife in these rivers of grass and marshlands, but some in the state’s environmental community were not.

“When it goes down to the area where there are no longer levees, it gets into the swamp,” said Wilma Subra of the Louisiana Environmental Action Network. “It’s going to contaminate the marsh.”

Ms. Subra said she had heard reports of dead fish and birds, and of people vomiting, but officials and the local Sierra Club could not confirm these reports.
801 2008-07-25 “On the positive side, we can expect somebody who reasons the way we do in Europe,” said Pierre Rousselin, the foreign editor of Le Figaro, a French newspaper, after the speech. “That said, on climate issues, the economy and world politics there are still questions. There will be a difference, but very quickly Obama will be faced with concrete questions, like Afghanistan.”

Eberhard Sandschneider of the German Council on Foreign Relations said, “The Obama who spoke tonight did not put all his cards on the table.” Mr. Obama “tried to use all the symbolism of Berlin to indicate that as president he would reach out to Europe,” Mr. Sandschneider said. “But between the lines he said very clearly that Europe needs to do more,” especially on Afghanistan and Iraq.

Europeans are wary about Mr. Obama’s call for more European money for defense and more soldiers for the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan. They worry that he will not alter what they see as President Bush’s unbending bias in favor of Israel.

And, despite what appears to be his sensitivity to European concerns, they perceive Mr. Obama as largely uninterested in Europe, even though he is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee responsible for the region. As the newspaper Le Monde pointed out on Thursday, Mr. Obama has never asked to meet the European Union’s ambassador in Washington.

But European leaders are particularly concerned about Mr. Obama’s positions on trade, taken during the bruising Democratic campaign against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, which seem to many to veer toward protectionism.

Europe’s trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, last month urged both Mr. Obama and his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, to reject “the false comforts of populism” and abandon “the protectionist and antitrade rhetoric” that dominated the primaries.

Mr. Mandelson noted that Mr. Obama had pledged to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and had opposed a new trade deal with Colombia. “A crisis of American confidence in globalization,” Mr. Mandelson said, “could knock it off course.”

Mr. Obama in his address spoke of the need for Europeans and Americans to recognize common challenges in an easily traveled world of radical Islam, nuclear proliferation, carbon emissions, violence, poverty and genocide.

But he offered more tepid support for free trade, even as negotiators in Geneva, including Mr. Mandelson, try to break an impasse that has dogged global trade talks for seven years. He said he wanted to “build on the wealth that open markets have created” but only if trade agreements were “free and fair for all,” a phrase that suggests fidelity to the trade-wary stance of one wing of the Democratic Party.

Europeans are upset about a recent decision by the Pentagon to order a new round of bidding for a $35 billion contract for aerial refueling tankers. A European-led consortium won the lucrative contract, beating Boeing, earlier this year. But Boeing and its Congressional supporters managed to have the bid reviewed and ultimately overturned.

The Europeans are unhappy with a five-year, $289 billion farm bill that maintains sizable subsidies for American farmers, even as the Europeans vow to review their own farm subsidies as a spur to trade talks. The United States complains that the European ban on American poultry costs American farmers about $200 million a year. The Europeans do not like the chlorine bath Americans use to disinfect their chickens, an argument that is less about safety than about taste.

Mr. Obama offered greater support for Europe’s great experiment in shared sovereignty, the European Union, which now includes 27 nations. “In this century, we need a strong European Union that deepens the security and prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand abroad,” he said, a nod to the large amounts of foreign assistance the Europeans provide.

He referred repeatedly to “European” people and values, drawing a contrast with the Bush administration, which has often sought to recruit individual European countries, like Britain and Poland, to support its policies, while doing less to cultivate ties to the broader European Union. Washington views the European Union as being dominated by France and Germany and less eager to follow America’s foreign policy.

But Mr. Obama also called for a more muscular Europe to act with the United States in the common defense, a politically delicate matter here that is likely to prove an irritant no matter who wins the presidency.

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has sent more troops to Afghanistan, but he has faced fierce political criticism for doing so. The Germans continue to be unwilling to send their troops from the safer northern provinces of Afghanistan to the south, where the Taliban is resurgent.

Hubert Védrine, a former French foreign minister, said, “I don’t think Europe is a major stake for” Mr. Obama, adding, “It’s the support that Europeans can bring to his politics that matters.”

Mr. Obama indulged in “some pro-German demagogy on nuclear weapons to get applause,” Mr. Védrine said. But he said Mr. Obama’s call for more European engagement in Afghanistan would not go over so well.

Even on Iran, where so far Washington and the main European countries have cooperated in their effort to prevent Tehran from getting a nuclear weapon, Mr. Obama refuses to rule out a military option — a position that, as Le Monde said, “is judged unproductive by most Europeans.”

Still, his willingness for some form of prepared negotiation with Iran is much closer to European views than that of Mr. Bush.
802 2008-07-25 TALKING BACK Comcast says its online outreach is part of a larger effort to revamp its customer service, but some people are calling it creepy.      PLUMMETING SALES The Ford Motor Company reported that it lost $8.7 billion in the second quarter, ...
803 2008-07-26 A new brick building at 211 Elizabeth Street is being laid the old-fashioned way -- by hand....
804 2008-07-26 A canceled meeting with wounded troops in Germany continues to reverberate as Barack Obama returns home, serving as fodder for a new ad from John McCain's campaign....
805 2008-07-26 The Democratic candidate wraps up his overseas journey, while his opponent uses his radio address to criticize the trip....
806 2008-07-26 The Giants, and Giants fans, may miss Jeremy Shockey more than they think....
807 2008-07-26 Re "When to Quote Those Potty Mouths" (July 13): As we contemplate The Times's role in maintaining a certain level of civility with regard to obscenities or vulgar words, you might reflect on the meaning of "civil." When George Carlin's seven word...
808 2008-07-26 Ships began crawling up the Mississippi River at New Orleans in a tightly controlled procession, two days after a huge oil spill shut down a stretch of one of the nation’s most critical commercial arteries. The pecking order was based on Coast Guard determination of the economic importance of the ships’ cargo, and the pace was slowed by a scrubbing process to remove oil from each hull. With more than 200 ships to be cleared, it was expected to take days to clear the backlog. About 419,000 gallons of fuel oil spilled from the barge.
809 2008-07-26 Janel McCarville’s layup with 6.4 seconds left lifted the Liberty to a 69-68 victory against the Los Angeles Sparks on Friday night at Madison Square Garden.

Lisa Leslie, Candace Parker, and DeLisha Milton-Jones returned to the Sparks (14-12) from their one-game suspensions for their involvement in Tuesday’s altercation with the Detroit Shock. They missed Thursday’s 87-61 loss at Connecticut.

Trailing by 68-67 with 11 seconds left, McCarville drove on Leslie and scored in the lane. Los Angeles had one last chance, but Leslie’s shot in the lane bounced off the rim at the buzzer.

“I was pretty confident we were going to win the game,” said McCarville, who led the Liberty with 15 points. “It shows how much heart and desire we had this game. We persevered as a team and overcame a lot.”

The Sparks were still short-handed, missing Shannon Bobbitt and Murriel Page, who were suspended two games by the league. Bobbitt sat out the loss to Connecticut, but Page was allowed to play so that the Sparks would be able to suit up the league minimum eight players.

Bobbitt missed her first chance to play in her hometown. A Bronx native, she led Murry Bergtraum to two New York City public high school titles. “Having Bobbitt tonight definitely would have helped us,” Los Angeles Coach Michael Cooper said.
810 2008-07-26 Honda Motor reported record profit for its first quarter as sales growth in new markets offset the damage from a stronger yen and soaring material costs. Honda earned a better-than-expected 179.6 billion yen ($1.68 billion) in the quarter, up 8.1 percent from the same period the previous year. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had forecast 131.3 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in quarterly profit. Demand for Honda products is booming in Asia, Brazil and other new markets, making up for declines in vehicle sales in the United States, Europe and Japan, it said.
811 2008-07-26 The longtime boxing judge Melvina Lathan was named by Gov. David A. Paterson to lead the New York State Athletic Commission, which regulates professional boxing in the state. Lathan has judged 83 world championship fights and was confirmed by the State Senate last year as the first female African-American commissioner.
812 2008-07-26 Whether the perception of Mr. McCain as being at odds with the administration is politically advantageous for him is a matter of debate among his supporters, but many of his more conservative advisers do not think it is a bad thing.

“There’s no doubt, particularly as Bush has adopted policies in the direction of Obama, that that gives Obama bragging rights,” said John R. Bolton, the Bush administration’s former ambassador to the United Nations, who has sharply criticized the administration’s talks with Iran and North Korea. “But if you believe as I do that this administration is in the midst of an intellectual collapse, it doesn’t hurt McCain. Occasionally in politics it helps to be right.”

But other Republicans — the so-called foreign policy pragmatists, many of whom have come to view the Iraq war as a mistake — say the administration’s policy shifts highlight the more confrontational nature of Mr. McCain’s foreign policy, particularly in his approach toward Russia and his embrace on Friday of the Dalai Lama, whom the Chinese regard as the fomenter of a rebellion in Tibet. They say the meeting will only antagonize China before the Summer Olympics, and at a moment when the United States is seeking its cooperation on economic issues and negotiations with North Korea.

The divisions within the Republican foreign policy establishment continue at a time when Mr. Obama is trying to establish his own international credentials. Republicans worry that he is seizing the chance, helped with the boost from Mr. Bush, to command the American foreign policy stage.

“Bush and Obama seem to be setting the foreign policy agenda, and McCain seems to be reacting,” said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan.

The McCain campaign disputes the idea that Mr. McCain has been left out on his own by the president.

“Does he feel he had the rug pulled out from under him by Bush?” said Randy Scheunemann, Mr. McCain’s chief foreign policy aide. “Absolutely not. John McCain has always said that he wanted the troops to come home. But he is opposed to an artificial date-driven timetable that ignores conditions on the ground and the advice of military commanders.”

In fact, Mr. Bush’s decision to accept a “general time horizon” for withdrawal from Iraq is still a long way from Mr. Obama’s proposal for a phased pullout, as the administration has not set any timeline.

Mr. McCain has on several recent occasions envisioned a date by when most American troops in Iraq would leave, although he has refused to call it a timetable. In a speech in Ohio in May, he declared that most American troops would be home by 2013. On Monday, in remarks at the side of the first President George Bush in Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. McCain embraced, if only in passing, the possibility of withdrawing most American troops by the end of 2010.

On Friday on CNN, under questioning by Wolf Blitzer, he called Mr. Obama’s 16-month proposal “a pretty good timetable.” But the McCain campaign declined to elaborate Friday night on whether this represented a change in his views.

Mr. McCain’s advisers also say that he is not opposed to talks with Iran and North Korea, and that he supported the administration’s decision to send the under secretary of state, William J. Burns, to Geneva last week for talks with Iran and European officials about Iran’s nuclear program. But Mr. McCain is against any president-to-president negotiations without preconditions, which Mr. Obama supports. (Mr. Obama’s advisers now say such talks would occur only if Mr. Obama deemed them potentially fruitful.)

Mr. McCain’s campaign continues to be a microcosm of the ongoing Republican foreign policy battles between the pragmatists and the neoconservatives like Mr. Bolton, and it is still not clear where the balance of power lies within Mr. McCain’s inner circle. So far, however, the divide between the two within the campaign does not appear as deep as it did within the Bush White House, and advisers say Mr. McCain has been able to chose when there is a policy difference.

Mr. McCain’s advisers were divided, for example, over a speech he gave on nuclear security policy in Denver in May. Two Republican pragmatists who advise Mr. McCain, the former secretaries of state Henry A. Kissinger and George P. Shultz, supported a call in the speech for a nuclear-free world, an idea they endorse as part of a “Gang of Four” of national security statesmen. But other McCain advisers, including John F. Lehman, a former Navy secretary, and Fred C. Ikle, a defense official in the Reagan administration, were opposed to the idea because, in their view, nuclear weapons act as a deterrent against an attack on the United States and its allies. In the end, Mr. Lehman said, Mr. McCain made the call in favor of a nuclear-free world.

“He wanted to do it,” Mr. Lehman said. “That position is McCain’s position. It’s not a cabal of Kissingerites or a cabal of neo-cons.”

But some of Mr. McCain’s pragmatist advisers remain uneasy that conservatives close to Mr. McCain — among them Mr. Scheunemann and Robert Kagan, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace — will help him mold a more bellicose message than they would like on Iran and its threat to Israel, particularly at a time when there is widespread speculation in the Israeli news media that Israeli may bomb Iran’s nuclear facilities.

Others who were once uneasy about the influence of conservatives on Mr. McCain say that their worries have not been realized, even as Mr. McCain has taken conservative positions.

“What I’ve seen in the campaign so far to me demonstrates that McCain is his own man, and he’s not being managed,” said Lawrence S. Eagleburger, a secretary of state under the first President Bush.
813 2008-07-26 LONDON (Reuters) — Bayer’s experimental anticoagulant Xarelto, its biggest new drug hope, has been recommended for approval by the European Medicines Agency, lifting the German company’s shares.

The drug watchdog said on Friday that its Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use had backed Xarelto for the prevention of blood clots after hip or knee surgery.

Recommendations for marketing approval by the committee are normally endorsed by the European Commission within a couple of months.

Bayer, which estimates that global sales of the drug could reach 2 billion euros ($3.14 billion) for all indications, said it was particularly pleased by the speedy positive opinion.

“We received it only nine months after the submission — very fast compared to average,” said Kemal Malik, a member of the Bayer HealthCare executive committee, responsible for product development.
814 2008-07-26 Federal regulators filed insider trading charges on Friday against unidentified individuals who are accused of making suspiciously well-timed purchases of call options in two companies before they announced multibillion-dollar mergers.

The case was brought in Federal District Court in New York against “one or more unknown purchasers” of call option contracts to buy shares of the military contractor DRS Technologies and American Power Conversion, a power and cooling services company.

DRS is in a pending deal to be acquired for $3.94 billion by Finmeccanica of Italy; American Power was bought by the French engineering group Schneider Electric for $6.1 billion last year.

Through an account at UBS in Zurich, the buyers made “well-timed purchases” of call options of DRS and American Power that yielded profits of about $3.3 million, the Securities and Exchange Commission said.

The S.E.C. brings cases against unknown defendants when, for example, the commission staff has indications of unusual trading in an account at a broker-dealer firm but does not have the name of the account holder.

The commission then often tries to freeze the account so that the holder cannot get to the profits.

The lawsuit, which seeks civil penalties and disgorgement of trading profits, says the purchases were made in the days and weeks before public announcements about the acquisitions. The activity occurred twice in a period of less than two years, the S.E.C. contends.
815 2008-07-26 First the Iraqi government gave Senator Barack Obama a boost by seeming to embrace his proposal for a 16-month timetable for withdrawing American troops from Iraq. Now could Senator John McCain, who built his candidacy in large part on his opposition to such a schedule, possibly be following suit?

“I think it’s a pretty good timetable,” Mr. McCain said Friday in an interview on “The Situation Room” on CNN, before adding that it should be based “on the conditions on the ground.”

For months Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has strongly opposed setting a timetable for withdrawal and has criticized Mr. Obama, his Democratic rival, for suggesting one. But the debate has shifted in recent days as Iraqi officials, including Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, moved closer to Mr. Obama’s position.

In the CNN interview, Mr. McCain first seemed to play down any possibility that Mr. Maliki would actually ask the United States to withdraw in the next 16 months to two years. “He won’t,” Mr. McCain said, explaining that he knew Mr. Maliki well.

Then, asked why he thought Mr. Maliki had called 16 months a potentially suitable timetable, Mr. McCain gave his enigmatic answer.

“He said it’s a pretty good timetable based on conditions on the ground,” Mr. McCain said. “I think it’s a pretty good timetable, as we should — or horizons for withdrawal. But they have to be based on conditions on the ground. This success is very fragile. It’s incredibly impressive, but very fragile. So we know, those of us who have been involved in it for many years, know that if we reverse this, by setting a date for withdrawal, all of the hard-won victory can be reversed.”
816 2008-07-26 A. I wouldn’t want to do it again. But it was an enormous learning experience, and oddly enough, it turned out to be positive for the Coca-Cola Company. Our sales increased when we brought the original formula back. The reaction from our customers was overwhelming. Once we realized that we had made a mistake, I went on television and simply said that we don’t own this brand, you do. You’ve made it clear that you want the original formula back, and you’re getting it back.

Q. Why were you tempted to fiddle with the formula in the first place?

A. When Roberto Goizueta and I took over in 1981, he said to the top executives that we were going to kill a sacred cow every day. Everything is up for grabs, he said, including the formula. Saying that at the Coca-Cola Company was really heresy.

Q. You were highly critical in your book of the role that consultants played in the New Coke episode. Do they really deserve so much of the blame, if management was responsible for calling the shots?

A. Consultants will probably not be great purchasers of this book. There is nothing wrong with outside help. But they have to be there for a specific purpose, for some knowledge that you don’t have. These are usually very smart people, and they are very good at PowerPoint presentations. But you shouldn’t rely on them more than the people in your own company.

Q. Why did you hesitate to invest in Eastern Europe after the Berlin Wall fell in 1989?

A. That was one of those times when I almost succumbed to the view that I was infallible. The man in charge of Europe asked us to invest a huge amount of money in Eastern Europe. Apparently, I was unpleasant about it. His boss, who was in charge of international operations, came into my office afterward and said to me, “You haven’t got the right to shoot him down, because you haven’t been there and you don’t know what’s going on.”

It hit me like a brick that he was right. We went all over Eastern Europe together, and three months later, we announced that we would spend a billion dollars there. And if he hadn’t had the guts to come into my office and tell me how stupid I was being, we wouldn’t have the kind of business that we have there now.

Q. Why do you think there have been so many scandals at large public companies in recent years?

A. The focus has moved from managing the company to managing the stock. If you look back, 20 or 30 years ago, the typical annual report was four or five pages and had no pictures, just the facts. But as the bull market developed, the annual reports became sexier.

And the chief financial officer was no longer there to add and subtract the numbers. He was encouraged to be creative. The C.E.O. might say to him: “The Street is expecting 5 more cents. Can you find it?” The pressure in that bubble was so intense. The bubble ended in 2001.

But it still takes a rare C.E.O. to say: “I am not going to pay attention to my quarterly results. I am going to run the company on the basis of long-term return to my shareholders.”

Q. You had a colorful childhood, working with your father in the Sioux City, Iowa, stockyards. How do you think that influenced your executive career?

A. When I was 15 or 16 years old, I got a job buying bulls to ship to processing plants back East. I worked for a man named Doyle Harmon, and my first day on the job, he chastised me for paying too much. He said “concentrate on the bull, not on the language of selling.” I’ve made most of the mistakes in my career by not concentrating on the bull.
817 2008-07-26 Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from July 18 through July 25:

1. The Debt Trap: Given a Shovel, Americans Dig Deeper Into Debt

2. Uncomfortable Answers to Questions on the Economy

3. My Son, the Blogger: An M.D. Trades Medicine for Apple Rumors

4. Women Are Now Equal as Victims of Poor Economy
818 2008-07-26 Trans fats are created by pumping hydrogen into liquid oil at high temperature, a process called partial hydrogenation. The process results in an inexpensive fat that prolongs the shelf life and appearance of packaged foods and that, many fast-food restaurants say, helps make cooked food crisp and flavorful.

But trans fats have also been found in scientific studies to lower high-density lipoproteins, the “good” , while increasing low-density lipoproteins, the “bad” cholesterol, high levels of which contribute to the onset of heart disease, the leading cause of death in California and the nation.

Dr. Yancy said a 2 percent increase in trans-fat intake could result over time in a 25 percent increase in the likelihood of developing coronary artery disease. “These are data we are just now beginning to understand,” he said. “It is pretty clear now that it was a mistake for us to embrace these fats.”

Under the new law, restaurants, bakeries, delicatessens, cafeterias and other businesses classified as “food facilities” will, in the preparation of any foods, have to discontinue use of oils, margarine and shortening containing trans fats.

Those purveyors will have to keep the labels on their cooking products so that the products can be inspected for trans fat, a process that will become part of the duties of local health inspectors. Violators will face fines beginning at $25 and increasing to as much as $1,000 for subsequent violations.

Trans fats are also linked to , and the bill’s author, Tony , a Democratic assemblyman and former fourth-grade teacher from , said he had been inspired by the number of obese children he saw in school.

“They are heavy,” Mr. Mendoza said. “They eat out a lot, and you realize there are trans fats out there. You don’t want kids to start off on the wrong foot.”

Opposition to the move came largely from the California Restaurant Association, which argued that singling out trans fats as a singularly harmful food product was arbitrary and that a mandate would prove expensive. Further, the association said, a ban for health reasons is the purview of the federal government, not the states.

“We don’t doubt the health findings surrounding trans fats,” said Lara Dunbar, the association’s senior vice president for government affairs. “Our opposition was philosophical. Banning one product isn’t necessarily the right solution.”

In addition, Ms. Dunbar said, many of the state’s restaurants have already eliminated trans fats. “We don’t think you need a mandate,” she said. “Restaurants responded to a consumer demand.”

Among national chains, , KFC, Taco Bell, the and have all begun to move away from trans fats because of consumer concerns.

In many high-end restaurants in this state — where the organic foods movement began and where many a food trend has been born — chefs would no more use trans fats in their cooking than use paper tablecloths in their dining rooms.

Some restaurateurs, however, say the change has been costly, because there are fewer distributors of the alternative oils.

“The only effect it is going to have on the consumer is that we are going to have to raise our prices,” said Tina Pantazis, the manager of Dino’s Burgers, which operates two hamburger outlets — one in Los Angeles, the other in Azusa. Ms. Pantazis said the price of those restaurants’ French fries, which now cost $1.75 an order, would most likely be bumped up to at least $2.75.

The Dino’s in Los Angeles has already begun using new oils, she said, adding that she could taste the difference but that there had been no complaints from customers. The Azusa location will move to be compliant soon.

“I think this is good for the health of the consumer,” Ms. Pantazis said. “On the other hand, people who eat French fries are not concerned with their health that much.”

To many health policy makers, though, trans fats have become almost the enemy that became long ago.

New York’s anti-trans-fat movement, led by Mayor , is still in its early days. The first phase, which began last year, made a target of frying oils and spreads. This month, the program was extended to baked goods.

Nearly all the 25,000 restaurants inspected have proved compliant, according to the city’s health department. New York has also offered a Trans Fat Help Center where bakers were schooled in the use of alternative fats.

California, which supplies a great deal of the nation’s specialty crops, already has some of the toughest food restrictions in the nation, including a ban on junk food and trans fats in school meals.

On Friday, Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican whose positions on consumer issues often align closely with those of Democrats who control the Legislature, praised the new statute, which the lawmakers passed last week.

“California is a leader in promoting health and , and I am pleased to continue that tradition by being the first state in the nation to phase out trans fats,” the governor said in a statement. “Consuming trans fat is linked to , and today we are taking a strong step toward creating a healthier future for California.”
819 2008-07-26 “The country has never been so stable and it’s never had sustained economic growth like this before,” said Roderick Brazier, the Asia Foundation’s representative for Cambodia.

“For a great part of the population, life is now similar to the lives of people in neighboring countries,” he said. “It feels like a normal country in that respect.”

The confrontation over the temple seems almost anachronistic as the country tries to move past its bitter history.

A few miles outside town, in a sort of bubble of irrelevance, five aging leaders of the Khmer Rouge are in holding cells awaiting trials that have been delayed so long that they have lost their meaning for most Cambodians.

From 1975 to 1979, the fanatically Communist Khmer Rouge caused the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million people though torture, execution, starvation and overwork, leaving behind a country psychologically paralyzed.

The Khmer Rouge tribunal has hardly been mentioned in the election campaign. Although many older Cambodians still carry with them the damage of those years, half the population of 14 million is under 20 years of age. An even higher number has no memory of the Khmer Rouge regime, which ended almost 30 years ago.

The retired king, Norodom Sihanouk, 85, who had been at the center of his country’s history since the 1950s, at least as a figurehead, has virtually disappeared from sight. His heir, King Norodom Sihamoni, has made little impression on the public.

Asked if the elder king, once a colorful and ebullient figure, had become discouraged, his biographer, Julio Jeldres, said: “Oh, I think so, I think so. But he realizes where the power lies and that there is not much he can do about it.”

The power lies with Mr. Hun Sen, 57, who has ruled Cambodia, alone or with others, since 1985. His party will benefit from a constitutional amendment requiring only a simple majority, rather than two-thirds of the 123 seats in Parliament, to form a government. His party now holds 73 seats and expects to win still more.

Eleven parties are competing in the election, but most are expected to win no seats.

Mr. Hun Sen said in May that he was tired of doling out bits of power to placate coalition partners.

“In the past there was a stalemate, so I had to facilitate this party or that party and enter into a coalition government,” he said. “Now the winner will get 100 percent. If there is an A there will be no B. If there is a B there will be no A. It is me or him.”

He makes no secret of his very long-term ambitions.

“If I am still alive, I will continue to stand as a candidate until I am 90,” he said last year.

He is benefiting now from an economy that until recently was growing about 10 percent a year, mostly based on income from garment manufacturing and tourism, as well as by a real estate boom that is bringing in foreign investors.

But that growth is fragile, some economists say. Jobs in the garment industry are moving to China. The high cost of fuel may begin to squeeze the tourism industry.

Like its neighbors, Cambodia is suffering from rising food prices and a slowing economy. Inflation, which had not passed 10 percent before this year, may be approaching 20 percent, according to some estimates.

The small middle class with money to spend in the capital’s new malls could shrink. And little of their money trickles down. Cambodia remains one of the poorest nations in the world, with one of the widest gaps between rich and poor. About 35 percent of the population lives on less than 50 cents a day.

“Life is better than five years ago,” said Seng Sing Leng, 43, a pork seller in a marketplace. “But things are getting harder. Our income is higher than before, but prices are much higher too.”

Despite the squeeze, most people interviewed at the market on Friday said Mr. Hun Sen was their man.

“He’s been a good leader,” said Chory Chorn, 52, as she cracked open coconuts to sell the pulp. “He helped the poor build schools, build roads.”

A small crowd had gathered, and people were unanimous when asked about the question of the day: who has the rights to the border temple.
820 2008-07-26 Investors welcomed an unexpected spate of good news about the economy on Friday, as reports showed a rise in consumer confidence, stronger-than-expected business spending and slightly less bleeding in the market for new homes.

The developments helped nudge stocks to a higher close at the end of a bumpy week. A welter of negative news on Thursday, including a record quarterly loss by Ford Motor and a gloomy report on existing-home sales, sent the Dow industrials down 283 points.

On Friday, a report by the University of Michigan and Reuters said that Americans felt better about the economy in July than they have since April, but the numbers remained far below those at the beginning of the year.

The confidence index rose to 61.2, from 56.4 in June, though Americans still have low expectations for the economy’s performance in the months ahead.

Some economists speculated that the unexpected boost stemmed from a decline in gasoline prices in the last two weeks. That may have temporarily overshadowed concerns about falling home prices and a weak job market, said Brian Bethune, an economist at the research firm Global Insight.

Another government report showed that orders for big-ticket items rose last month, beating economists’ expectations. A surge in export orders and investment in military-related products sent durable goods orders up 0.8 percent in June from a revised 0.1 percent in May, the Commerce Department said. Excluding orders for military-related goods, orders were up only 0.1 percent.
821 2008-07-26 I bring this up because of what transpired on Monday afternoon, during Apple’s third-quarter conference call. In June, rumors began swirling that Steve Jobs was sick again. They had started during the company’s annual Worldwide Developers Conference, where Mr. Jobs looked unusually thin and haggard.

Although the Apple public relations machine quickly put out the word that Mr. Jobs had been struck by “a common bug,” few investors were buying it. Wall Street analysts were besieged with questions from clients, wanting to know about Mr. Jobs’s health. On Monday, The New York Post published an article citing “multiple sources” who, the paper said, had met with Mr. Jobs and were “troubled by his thin appearance.” So when the Apple conference call later that day opened for questions, a Lehman Brothers analyst named Ben Reitzes gently asked the $64,000 question.

“A New York newspaper today called into question some issues around Steve and his health,” he said. “Would you mind addressing the situation?”

“Steve loves Apple,” replied Peter Oppenheimer, the company’s chief financial officer. “He serves as the C.E.O. at the pleasure of Apple’s board and has no plans to leave Apple. Steve’s health is a private matter.”

That was it. No insistence that he was cancer-free. No attempt to explain his gaunt condition. No nothing. When I spoke to Steve Dowling in Apple’s public relations department on Thursday, I got the same response. “Steve’s health is a private matter,” Mr. Dowling said. Then, just for good measure, he said it again. “Steve’s health is a private matter.”

But is it really?

There are no hard and fast rules about how and when companies need to disclose information about the health of their chief executives. In 1995, when Andrew S. Grove, then the chief executive of Intel, received a diagnosis of prostate cancer, he informed the company’s board and management. Intel. But he never told the company’s shareholders. Mr. Grove says now that because the cancer never impaired his ability to do his job, there was no reason to inform shareholders. (The world found out about Mr. Grove’s illness only when he wrote about it the following year.)

On the other hand, when Charles H. Bell received a diagnosis of colorectal cancer shortly after he became the chief executive of McDonald’s in 2004, the company quickly released the news. Mr. Bell resigned from the company that November, and died two months later.

“The question surrounding any kind of corporate disclosure always is: Is it material?” said Larry S. Gondelman, a lawyer with Powers Pyles Sutter & Verville. “And there is no bright line test in determining materiality.” A spokesman for the Securities and Exchange Commission said that the law defined materiality as information that “the reasonable investor needs to know in order to make an informed decision about his investment.”

No company has ever been held to account by the S.E.C. for failing to disclose information about its chief executive’s health, and I’m not suggesting that the S.E.C. should go after Apple for keeping mum about Mr. Jobs’s health. Indeed, I found plenty of people who felt he had every right to keep the information to himself. “As long as he is healthy, he doesn’t have to disclose,” said Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company. Roger McNamee, the well-known technology investor at Elevation Partners, said, “Because Steve Jobs has been appearing in public regularly, investors are getting a valuable form of disclosure.”

But if ever there was a chief executive who ought to feel some responsibility to tell shareholders about his health, it is Steve Jobs. First of all, he is not like other chief executives — he is, instead, the single most indispensable chief executive on the planet. As Mr. Wolf nicely put it, “Apple is Steve Jobs and Steve Jobs is Apple.” He added, “I think the stock would drop 25 percent or more if he were to leave the company unexpectedly.” When investors whisper about Mr. Jobs’s health, it’s not just gossip they are indulging in — his health really matters to Apple’s future.

Secondly, Mr. Jobs has had cancer, for crying out loud — and in the public mind, a particularly insidious kind. Although several doctors I spoke to say that the kind of cancer he had, and the kind of operation he underwent, give him a better-than-even chance of living a long and happy life, there are no guarantees with cancer. We all know that. Which is all the more reason why, at a minimum, Apple should flatten the rumor that his cancer has recurred — even if it won’t go further than that. “Not being able to provide a statement effectively dismissing the question is really unsatisfactory to most investors,” said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., who follows the company for Sanford C. Bernstein.

The final reason, to be blunt about it, is that Apple simply can’t be trusted to tell truth about its chief executive. Under Mr. Jobs, Apple has created a culture of secrecy that has served it well in many ways — the speculation over which products Apple will unveil at the annual MacWorld conference has been one of the company’s best marketing tools. But that same culture poisons its corporate governance. Apple tells analysts far less about its operations than most companies do. It turns low-level decisions into state secrets. Directors are often left out of the loop. And it dissembles with impunity.

As, indeed, it has in this latest episode. On Wednesday, John Markoff reported in The New York Times that Mr. Jobs had had a surgical procedure earlier this year, the details of which remain unclear. I hear that he has had ongoing digestive difficulties, which have contributed to his weight loss — possibly a side effect of the surgery. And in the weeks leading up to the conference, he came down with an infection, which had a lot to do with why he looked so gaunt. It wasn’t cancer, thank goodness. But was more than a “common bug.” By claiming Mr. Jobs had a bug, Apple wasn’t just going dark on its shareholders. It was deceiving them.

It would be horrible if Mr. Jobs had a recurrence of cancer. I hope it never happens. At 53, he is in the prime of his life, the father of a young family. And for the rest of us, it’s exhilarating watching him work his magic in the marketplace. Steve Jobs has created more value and driven more innovation than just about anybody in business. Who doesn’t want to see what he’ll come up with next?

He also, though, needs to treat his shareholders with at least a modicum of respect. And telling them whether or not he is sick would be a good place to start.

On Thursday afternoon, several hours after I’d gotten my final “Steve’s health is a private matter” — and much to my amazement — Mr. Jobs called me. “This is Steve Jobs,” he began. “You think I’m an arrogant [expletive] who thinks he’s above the law, and I think you’re a slime bucket who gets most of his facts wrong.” After that rather arresting opening, he went on to say that he would give me some details about his recent health problems, but only if I would agree to keep them off the record. I tried to argue him out of it, but he said he wouldn’t talk if I insisted on an on-the-record conversation. So I agreed.

Because the conversation was off the record, I cannot disclose what Mr. Jobs told me. Suffice it to say that I didn’t hear anything that contradicted the reporting that John Markoff and I did this week. While his health problems amounted to a good deal more than “a common bug,” they weren’t life-threatening and he doesn’t have a recurrence of cancer. After he hung up the phone, it occurred to me that I had just been handed, by Mr. Jobs himself, the very information he was refusing to share with the shareholders who have entrusted him with their money.

You would think he’d want them to know before me. But apparently not.
822 2008-07-26 CATTANACH--Melissa Bedolis. The employees of The Estee Lauder Companies are very saddened by the death of our dear colleague and beloved friend, Melissa Bedolis Cattanach. Known for her joie de vivre, she will also be remembered for her fabulous e...
823 2008-07-27 Apple scrambled to limit the damage caused by MobileMe, the company's first step into cloud computing, by posting an apology and acknowledging continuing problems....
824 2008-07-27 Like voters, Democratic politicians display more fervor for Barack Obama than their Republican counterparts do for John McCain....
825 2008-07-27 More of your user-generated comedy (send via the comment link below): A woman in England hired a 3D art expert to mow a reproduction of the Mona Lisa on her front lawn. Just like the real thing, it's hard to tell if the grass Mona Lisa is smiling ...
826 2008-07-27 The unions representing 65,000 Verizon workers on Saturday resounded a pledge to strike if demands for higher wages, caps on health care payments and limits on outsourcing jobs are not honored.

With one week to go before a contract expires, several thousand telephone workers affiliated with the Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers gathered at Verizon headquarters in Lower Manhattan.

They chastised Verizon executives for proposing sharp increases in health care payments and reductions in coverage for retirees. Some held signs reading “Hands Off Our Benefits,” vowing to take to the picket line on Aug. 3 if the two sides did not reach a settlement.

Joe Connolly, president of Local 1101 of the C.W.A., said that the union was pushing for a 5 percent annual wage increase, larger pensions and expanded medical benefits. “Right now, employees have to make a choice: Are they going to eat or get benefits?” Mr. Connolly said.

In light of the slow pace of negotiations, a strike was likely, he said. “There’s been nothing resolved on any level at this point.”

Eric W. Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon, however, remained hopeful that a deal would be reached. He declined to comment on the specifics of the negotiations. “I think everybody recognizes that it is in the interests of all sides to get the contract resolved,” Mr. Rabe said.
827 2008-07-27 Anthony Kim made nine birdies and an eagle in 21 holes Saturday in the Canadian Open for a share of the lead with Chez Reavie during the suspended third round at rain-softened Glen Abbey in Oakville, Ontario.

Kim, tied for 26th at four under through 15 holes when second-round play was suspended Friday night, went birdie-birdie-eagle Saturday morning to complete a two-under 69, then added a bogey-free 64 in the third round to match Reavie at 15 under.

Reavie was two under through 16 holes when darkness ended play on a course saturated by more than eight inches of rain in a week.

Kim, 23, is seeking his third victory of the year. Scott McCarron had a 63, the best round of the week, to get to 12 under.

COOK LEADS SENIOR BRITISH John Cook took a one-stroke lead in the third round of the Senior British Open in Troon, Scotland, shooting a four-under 67 to capitalize on Bruce Vaughan’s midround collapse.
828 2008-07-27 Kara Schodowski remembered the early days. She was a girl of 18 then, working at the nearby Mandee clothing store. She discovered that she liked the hot coffee from Starbucks and cold coffee from Dunkin’ Donuts across the parking lot. Why? “I have no idea,” said Ms. Schodowski, still a clerk at Mandee and now 20 years old.

Petty Officer Fannie Wilks, taking a break from her Coast Guard duties at Fort Wadsworth to pick up an Iced Vanilla Latte, also waxed nostalgic. Nobody did coffee like the baristas, as the company calls its workers, at the Forest Promenade Starbucks.

When it came to the amount of syrup in her favorite drink, “a lot of stores have it confused,” said Petty Officer Wilks, a housing and color guard supervisor. “A hot Vanilla Latte gets a different number of pumps — they say it’s five, others do six.”

But now that her Starbucks was closing, what would she do?

“I guess I’ll have to go to the one on Richmond,” she said, “but it’s at least another five minutes.”

All across the country, cappuccino and latte drinkers are bemoaning the closing of their neighborhood coffee shops, including about 600 others also named Starbucks. The one tucked unobtrusively into Forest Promenade, in the Graniteville neighborhood near the Bayonne Bridge, is the first of those in New York City to go. The company that owns the cafe said it would try to move its employees to other jobs; it happens to own eight other stores on Staten Island and 224 more across the city.

But the closing still did not sit well with Cynthia Salas and Stephen Modica, who dropped by on Thursday to stake out a regular window table facing a Payless ShoeSource to sip their drinks to the cool jazz of Dizzy Gillespie and the folk-pop of Turin Brakes, the musical numbers announced on an overhead flat-screen TV.

“I do the Chai Lattes, he does the coffee,” said Ms. Salas, a jill of all trades who supervises construction, teaches holistic health and sells books and gym equipment on Craigslist, meeting buyers in the Forest Promenade Starbucks where, she said, “we can negotiate and use the bathroom.”

She and Mr. Modica, a New York City Transit bus employee, said it was a comfortable shop, and even a coffee lover visiting for the first time could be forgiven for feeling strangely at home. A lowered ceiling inset with lights gave off a warm glow, illuminating the pastry cabinet with Odwalla and Naked juices, marshmallow squares and iced sugar cookies, and sandwiches of tomato and mozzarella on ciabatta, turkey and pesto on baguette, and tarragon chicken salad.

And yet, Ms. Salas said, this cafe had a special feel.

“It’s more comfortable, there’s more space,” she said. “This one is a little different.”

Indeed, a faux fireplace mantel stood in a corner, on which sat two candles embedded in coffee beans — a manager’s inspiration that had won company approval.

But the couple faulted the shop for not calling more attention to itself. Ms. Salas complained that it did not have a drive-through window although it flanked the heavily traveled Martin Luther King Expressway, Route 440. Nor was there a mention of Starbucks on the strip mall’s sign. “They don’t advertise properly,” she said.

But the company says nothing was likely to draw enough traffic to make the location pay.

Before leaving, Ms. Salas and Mr. Modica sought a final keepsake, perusing the entertainment rack stacked with DVDs of “The Kite Runner” and highlights of the 2006-7 seasons of “Saturday Night Live.” They settled on a CD, “Bella Luna,” a compilation of Italian songs including “O Sole Mio” by Mario Lanza and “Come On-a My House” by Rosemary Clooney.

“Back to my roots,” Mr. Modica said.

Some who stopped in were stunned to learn of the imminent closing. “Oh, really? Oh, my God!” said Andres Carmona, 32, a trucker who had made a point of stopping at the store when traveling from his home in Queens to routes in New Jersey. It had become a tradition, Mr. Carmona said — ever since he started drinking coffee about two years ago.
829 2008-07-27 Employees at Republican lobbying firms like Fierce, Isakowitz & Blalock have made many contributions to Mr. McCain and other Republican lawmakers, including the Senate and House minority leaders and the top Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Some lobbyists chafe at being asked for money by the McCain campaign while he disparages lobbyists as agents of “big-moneyed special interests.” But they know that such criticism is a staple of politics.

“We are 100 percent behind McCain,” said Kathryn Braden Huffard, a lobbyist at Fierce, Isakowitz, whose clients include Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant. “In the wake of the Abramoff affair, it seems, there has to be a villain. But Senator McCain understands that many lobbyists are smart people who have experience on the issues.”

With just days remaining before the July 31 deadline for reports, lobbyists have disclosed contributions of $4.7 million to Democrats and $3.3 million to Republicans.

Information in some filings was incomplete, so the political affiliation of some recipients could not be readily determined. In addition, some money went to political action committees that focus on specific issues and support candidates of both parties.

Lobbyists gave $181,500 to the campaign committee for Senate Democrats, nearly three times the amount reported in donations to the Senate Republican committee. Lobbyists have reported $108,000 in contributions to the campaign committee for House Democrats, about 20 percent more than they reported giving to the House Republican committee.

Linda E. Tarplin, a health care lobbyist, has given $2,300 to Mr. McCain; $5,000 to the campaign committee for Senate Republicans; $5,000 to a political committee headed by the House Republican leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio; $1,000 to the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky; and $4,500 to Republican members of the Senate Finance Committee, which handles health care bills.

Among the more generous contributors is Henry M. Gandy, a vice president of the Duberstein Group who has registered to lobby for companies like Amgen, Fannie Mae and Goldman Sachs. Mr. Gandy, a veteran of the Reagan White House, reported that he had made 23 contributions totaling $41,500 to Congressional candidates in the last six months.

Brian J. Rogers, a spokesman for the McCain campaign, said that contributions from lobbyists did not compromise the senator’s independence in any way.

“John McCain is the biggest enemy of special interests in Washington,” Mr. Rogers said. “He spearheaded campaign finance reform. He fought Boeing’s tanker deal with the Air Force, and he led the investigation of Jack Abramoff.”

The policy of the Obama campaign is set forth on its Web site for online donations: “We don’t take money from Washington lobbyists or special-interest political action committees. Instead, we have a base of more than 1.5 million individual donors who ensure that this campaign answers to no one but the people.”

Obama aides say they check donors’ names against a list of lobbyists.

But Donald J. Barry, who was executive vice president of the Wilderness Society from 2000 until early this month, reported that he had given the Obama campaign six contributions totaling $2,050 from January to June, and he was a host for an Obama fund-raiser in June.

“I did not know that I had been registered as a lobbyist since 2000,” said Mr. Barry, who was a Clinton administration official.

The Obama campaign says it returns contributions if it learns they came from lobbyists. But Mr. Barry said, “I intend to contribute the same amount of money, or maybe even more, to the Obama campaign once I am no longer registered as a lobbyist.”

Watchdog groups welcomed the information, but said the data would be more useful if lobbyists reported contributions at the time they were made.

“With all the online tools we have today, why not have instantaneous disclosure?” asked Ellen Miller, executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, an advocate of open government. “Why wait six months, when the money changing hands is affecting legislation being written today?”

Lobbyists say that campaign contributions are “the price of admission” that must be paid to gain access to many Congressional offices. They worry the new reports will make it easier for lawmakers to check if they have made such contributions.

However, J. Keith Kennedy, a Republican who lobbies on appropriations issues, said he was happy to make contributions to lawmakers whom he admires and respects.

Mr. Kennedy, a former staff director of the Senate Appropriations Committee, contributed $10,800 to 12 lawmakers in the last six months. Recipients include the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin; Senator Daniel K. Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat who is chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee; and Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska, the senior Republican on the subcommittee.

Linda H. Daschle, a top aviation lobbyist, reported $29,000 of contributions in the last six months. These include $1,000 each to lawmakers with a decisive say on aviation policy: Representative James L. Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who is chairman of the House Transportation Committee, and Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington and chairwoman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee on transportation.

Mrs. Daschle gave $12,000 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, which is trying to elect more Democrats to the Senate, where her husband, Tom Daschle, was once the majority leader. He is now a top adviser to Mr. Obama. Her clients include American Airlines, Boeing and L-3 Communications, a major military contractor.
830 2008-07-27 Atlanta Coach Marynell Meadors said she was pleased with the team’s effort, especially considering only two players — Iziane Castro Marques and Betty Lennox — have more than three years’ experience. The Dream needs three wins over their final eight games to avoid matching Chicago’s league record of 29 losses, set in its expansion season two years ago.

“Hopefully, we can put some more wins together,” Meadors said. “Growing pains are tough and the thing is that we do look a little bad on the court and it comes down to decision making. But most of our players have never been in that situation.”

Lennox, playing in her ninth season, is a bright spot for the Dream. She entered the weekend averaging a career-high 17.3 points.

SUPPORT FOR MAHORN Connecticut Coach Mike Thibault wore a Free Rick Mahorn sticker during his pregame interview with a local television station before the Sun beat Los Angeles, 87-61, on Thursday night. Mahorn, a Detroit assistant, and 10 players were suspended by the league for their roles in an on-the-court skirmish between the Shock and the Los Angeles Sparks on Tuesday. Mahorn, who appeared to shove the Sparks’ Lisa Leslie to the court during the incident, was suspended for two games.

Thibault said he was not disagreeing with the league’s choice to suspend Mahorn, but he said he feared that the suspension might deter a coach from going on the floor as a peacemaker.

“He’s a big guy and he did knock her down, but he got hit and somehow has more games on his suspension,” Thibault said. “I’m saddened the whole thing happened, and my opinion is that the penalties should be equal.”

He said he sent a text message to the league with his opinions, but had not heard back.

Thibault said he was unsure whether the attention the league had received since the skirmish would be beneficial.

“I am glad people are talking about the W.N.B.A., but I wish it were for a different reason,” he said. “I don’t think a brawl is good for anything, but at the same time, if people down the road pay attention to the fact that we have highly competitive, spirited, good athletes competing that hard, I guess that’s a plus.

“I’m not condoning anything that has to do with fighting, I just know our league has showcased that we have big-time players. Along with that comes a high competitive nature.”

AWARD FOR CHICAGO ROOKIE The Chicago Sky rookie Sylvia Fowles received the league’s Community Assist Award for June in recognition of her participation in many of the team’s community efforts and her involvement with organizations that promote health, wellness and sports for youth.

Fowles, the second overall pick in April’s draft, recently returned after missing 17 games because a sprained left knee.

“It feels great to have my work in the community recognized,” she said. “My hope is that this award encourages others to do the same.”

Fowles, a former Louisiana State star, helped kick off a water-safety program in Chicago’s public pools, speaking about her experience as a swimming instructor.
831 2008-07-27 Like tens of thousands of people around the country, those living here are victims of what experts say has become the most serious human rights abuse in the country: land seizures that lead to evictions and homelessness.

“Expropriation of the land of Cambodia’s poor is reaching a disastrous level,” Basil Fernando, executive director of the Asian Human Rights Commission in Hong Kong, a private monitoring group, said in December. “The courts are politicized and corrupt, and impunity for human rights violators remains the norm.”

With the economy on the rise, land is being seized for logging, agriculture, mining, tourism and fisheries, and in Phnom Penh, soaring land prices have touched off what one official called a frenzy of land grabs by the rich and powerful. The seizures can be violent, including late-night raids by the police and military. Sometimes, shanty neighborhoods burn down, apparently victims of arson.

“They came at 2 a.m.,” said Ku Srey, 37, who was evicted with Ms. Mao Sein and most of their neighbors in June 2006.

“They were vicious,” Ms. Ku Srey said of the police and soldiers who evicted her.

“They had electric batons” — and she imitated the sound made by the devices: “chk-chk-chk-chk.” She said, “They pushed us into trucks, they threw all our stuff into trucks and they brought us here.”

In a report in February, Amnesty International estimated that 150,000 people around the country were now at risk of forcible eviction as a result of land disputes, land seizures and new development projects.

These include 4,000 families who live around a lake in the center of Phnom Penh, Boeung Kak Lake, which is the city’s main catchment for monsoon rains and is being filled in for upscale development.

“If these communities are forced to move, it would be the most large-scale displacement of Cambodians since the times of the Khmer Rouge,” said Brittis Edman, a researcher with Amnesty International, which is based in London.

That, in a way, would bring history full circle.

Like other ailments of society — political and social violence, poverty and a culture of impunity for those with power — the land issues have roots in Cambodia’s tormented past of slaughter, civil war and social disruptions.

The brutal rule of the Khmer Rouge, during which 1.7 million people are estimated to have died, began in 1975 with an evacuation of Phnom Penh, forcing millions of people into the countryside and emptying the city. It ended in 1979 when the Khmer Rouge was driven from power by a Vietnamese invasion, sending hundreds of thousands of refugees into Thailand.

Many of the refugees returned in the 1990s, joining a rootless population displaced by the Khmer Rouge and the decade of civil war that followed in the 1980s. Many ended their journeys in Phnom Penh, creating huge colonies of squatters.

Now, many of these people are being forced to move again, from Phnom Penh and from around the country, victims of the latest scourge of the poor: national prosperity.

Whichever way the winds of history blow, some people here say, life only gets worse for the poor. If it is not “pakdivat,” revolution, that is buffeting the poor, they say, it is “akdivat,” development.

The Cambodian economy has at last started to grow, at an estimated 9 percent last year. And Phnom Penh is starting to transform itself with modern buildings, modest malls and plans for skyscrapers. It is one of the last Asian capitals to begin to pave over its past.

From 1993 to 1999, Amnesty International said in its report in February, the government granted commercial development rights for about one-third of the country’s most productive land for commercial development to private companies.

In Phnom Penh from 1998 through 2003, the city government forced 11,000 families from their homes, the World Bank said in a statement quoted by Amnesty International.

Since then, the human rights group said, evictions have reportedly displaced at least 30,000 more families.

“One thing that is important to note is that the government is not only failing to protect the population, but we are also seeing that it is complicit in many of the forced evictions,” Ms. Edman, of Amnesty International, said.

The government responded to the group’s report through a statement issued by its embassy in London.

“Just to point out that Cambodia is not Zimbabwe,” the statement read. “Your researcher should also spend more time to examine cases of land and housing rights violations in this country, if she dares.”

Here in Andong, the people have adapted as best they can.

Little by little, they have made their dwellings home, some of them decorating their shacks with small flower pots. A few have gathered enough money to buy concrete and bricks to pave their floors and reinforce their walls.

But this home, like the ones they have known in the past, may only be temporary. The outskirts of Phnom Penh are only a few miles away. As the city continues to expand, aid workers say, the people here will probably be forced to move again.
832 2008-07-27 Love said what bothered him more were players who crossed the Atlantic and started complaining about the rain and wind.

“Just don’t come,” Love said. “If you’re going to have a bad attitude on Thursday before you tee off because it’s raining, then don’t come, because you’re just wasting your time. It’s going to be bad, eventually, one way or another.”

Love said Americans got a bad reputation when one or two players skipped the British Open, but he saw a different perspective while qualifying in Detroit.

“There were a lot of Tour players there, and there were a lot of guys grinding it out, trying to make it,” he said. “There are guys who are desperate to play.”

His advice for players at the British Open is to expect the worse, which is what Health Slocum, the first alternate who did not have a spot in the field until Thursday morning. Slocum said wind, cold and rain were part of his British Open memories when he watched on television as a youngster.

“You’re not going to have an easy round of golf every day,” Love said. “If it’s warm, it’s just as hard in another way. It’s firm and fast and you get bad bounces, and there’s a lot of luck involved. Then it gets like this, and it’s incredibly tough to control your ball and you just have to have the patience, no matter which way it goes. It’s very rarely nice and comfortable.”

But was it worth it? It was for more American players than people realize.

Even after he withdrew after nine holes, Rich Beem said he would continue to attempt qualifying if he was not exempt.

“It’s the greatest golf known to man,” he said.

DRAWING WITHOUT WOODS Tiger Woods’s missing his first major as a professional did not keep the fans away from Royal Birkdale. More than 200,000 attended the Open, which organizers said was among the top six in history.

The attendance was impressive because there was a steady rain and 30-mile-per-hour wind for most of the first round.

“When you think of the weather, people talking about a possible economic recession, Tiger Woods not here — I think it was a wonderful crowd,” said Peter Dawson, the chief of the Royal and Ancient, which operates the British Open.

Perhaps a better measure than attendance was the reported sales of 280,000 cups of coffee and 30,000 servings of fish and chips.

STEADY HAND Robert Karlsson of Sweden is fourth in the European standings for the Ryder Cup, and it is not hard to see why. He is the only player to finish in the top 10 at all three majors this year.

Karlsson tied for eighth in the Masters, tied for fourth at the United States Open, then had a 69 — one of only six rounds under par on the last day at Royal Birkdale — to tie for seventh.

NONE OF THE ABOVE The L.P.G.A. Tour had a poll on its Web site during the second round of the State Farm Classic, asking for predictions on who would win the tournament.

Michelle Wie, who is not an L.P.G.A. member, was among the names atop the leader board, but she was not part of the poll. The choices were the L.P.G.A. champion Yani Tseng, Angela Park, Angela Stanford, Sherri Steinhauer, Jee Young Lee and other.

Tseng received 12 percent of the votes. Other was the leader at 63 percent.
833 2008-07-27 “The more environmental the Nationals make that park seem, the stronger the payday for Exxon,” Mr. Tidwell said. “It’s an amazing perversion.”

A spokesman for ExxonMobil, Alan Jeffers, said the Nationals had approached the company about an advertising deal, which the company agreed to as a way of highlighting its commitment to energy efficiency.

“It’s an interesting dilemma,” Mr. Jeffers said. “We get criticized for not doing enough for the environment, then get criticized when we do” run an environmental campaign.

A Nationals spokeswoman said the team did not comment on the terms or details of its advertising deals.

During a nine-game home stand in late June, ExxonMobil worked with the Alliance to Save Energy, a nonpartisan, nonprofit group, to offer energy-saving tips at the new stadium.

On the final day, the Alliance highlighted its Drive Smarter Challenge, an effort to increase fuel efficiency by distributing tip cards and displaying energy saving ideas on the stadium scoreboard. ExxonMobil will continue to sponsor the tips for the rest of the season.

The fuel-efficiency campaign coincided with the beginning of the Strike Out Exxon protest. Mr. Tidwell said that about 50 protesters showed up on June 20, and that five or more protesters showed up for the next eight games. He said the demonstrations would continue until the last Nationals home game in September.

The president of the Alliance to Save Energy, Kateri Callahan, said she knew that working with ExxonMobil “could raise some eyebrows,” but said that the company had been a conscientious partner in her group’s fuel-efficiency campaign.

The company “hasn’t tried to control our message at all,” Ms. Callahan said, adding, “They’ve done nothing but open doors to allow our message to be heard.”

Mr. Jeffers said ExxonMobil had spent $1.5 billion since 2004 on energy-efficiency measures, most of them internal, and reduced its own emissions by more than five million tons from 2006 to 2007.

“Being more efficient is one of the easiest ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” Mr. Jeffers said. “That has an environmental impact, but it also helps people save money.”

But members of Strike Out Exxon say the company’s efforts amount to little more than lip service. The protesters contend that ExxonMobil is using its recent campaign as a cover to lobby members of Congress and other policy makers who frequent the new stadium.

“It’s perfect politics,” Mr. Tidwell said. “They get to associate their name with the goodness of baseball and environmental generosity.”

Environmentalists have long accused ExxonMobil of being uninterested in developing renewable energy resources.

The research director for Greenpeace, Kert Davies, said the oil company had spent more than $20 million in the past decade to finance groups that question links between human activity and climate change, a strategy the company began moving away from in the past two years.

Mr. Jeffers, however, said ExxonMobil was emphasizing energy efficiency in light of forecasts from the company and other analysts that hydrocarbons will continue to supply about 80 percent of the world’s energy over the next few decades.

At the very least, Strike Out Exxon members said they hoped to prevent their worst-case situation: the renaming of Nationals Park after ExxonMobil, which has its headquarters near Dallas but employs more than 2,000 workers in the Washington area.

“We already lost the Senators to Texas in 1971,” said Steve Kretzmann, executive director of Oil Change International, a nonprofit environmental advocacy group. “Washington has a long and tortured relationship with Texas. We’re not particularly big fans.”
834 2008-07-27 Before the measure was signed into law in June by Gov. Charlie Crist, a Republican, all travel agencies were required to pay the state a one-time $25,000 bond.

State Representative David Rivera, a Republican from Miami and a Cuban-American, who sponsored the bill, said the travel agents providing Cuba trips should post a larger bond to cover the cost of “reasonable oversight” of those doing business with a “terrorist government.”

Mr. Rivera said the law was an “antiterrorism bill” that requires any Florida travel agent who provides direct flights to any country on the State Department’s list of state sponsors of terrorism to pay the bond. Since there are no direct flights from Miami to any other countries on the list critics say the law was intended to regulate travel to Cuba.

Mr. Rivera said the bond would be used to investigate any agency accused of violating the law regulating travel to Cuba, though the legislation does not specify what constitutes a violation.

Mr. Rivera said the law was designed to protect customers from price gouging and “unscrupulous travel agents.”

“Every business in Florida is regulated,” Mr. Rivera said after the July 1 decision by the judge, Alan S. Gold of Federal District Court. “So travel agents that deal with terrorist governments don’t deserve an exemption from the regulations.” The case is to return to court in September.

Ira Kurzban, a lawyer for the travel agents who brought the suit, said the law was more about Florida politicking rather than protecting consumers.

“This law was conceived for no reason other than to placate a small group of Cuban-Americans out of step with the Cuban community,” said Mr. Kurzban, who also said it was unconstitutional and “attempts to embroil the State of Florida in foreign policy.”

Some legal experts agree, saying the law oversteps the bounds of state authority.

“States simply can’t decide they want to have their own foreign policy,” said Bernard H. Oxman, an international law professor at the University of Miami.

Erik Miller, the lawyer for the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, which regulates the state’s travel agencies, said at the court hearing that the law “does not invade the province of federal status.”

“There’s not interference with foreign affairs,” Mr. Miller said. “It only regulates in-state transactions.”
835 2008-07-27 Used book sales return nothing to publishers and authors. Digital publishing, however, offers textbook publishers a way to effectively destroy the secondary market for textbooks: they now can shift the entire business model away from selling objects toward renting access to a site with a time-defined subscription, a different thing entirely.

The transition has already begun, even while publishers continue to sell print editions. They are pitching ancillary services that instructors can require students to purchase, just like textbooks, but which are available only online on a subscription basis. Cengage Learning, the publisher of Professor McMurry’s “Organic Chemistry,” packages the new book with a two-semester “access card” to a Cengage site that provides instructors with canned quizzes and students with interactive tutorials.

Ronald G. Dunn, chief executive of Cengage Learning, says he believes the printed book is not about to disappear, because it presents a large amount of material conveniently. Mr. Dunn predicted that textbook publishers were “headed for a hybrid market: print will do what it does best, and digital will do what it does best.”

Whether students will view online subscriptions as a helpful adjunct to the printed textbook or as a self-aggrandizing ploy by publishers remains to be seen.

As textbook publishers try to shift to an online subscription model, they must also stem the threat posed by the sharing of scanned copies of their textbooks by students who use online publishing tools for different purposes. The students who create and give away digital copies are motivated not by financial self-interest but by something more powerful: the sweet satisfaction of revenge.

Mr. Dunn says that online piracy is “a significant issue for us.” His company assigns employees to monitor file-sharing sites, and they find in any given month 200 to 300 Cengage textbook titles being shared. The company sends notices to the sites, demanding that the files be removed and threatening legal action.

Textbook Torrents, a site that opened last year and was wholly dedicated to arranging peer-to-peer sharing of textbook files, closed without explanation this month. But other sites continue to rely upon similar technology for disseminating unauthorized copies of textbooks, facilitating the piece-by-piece movement of copies of files found on the computers of participants.

The Pirate Bay, which is based in Sweden, presents a devilishly fearless challenge to American textbook publishers. It describes itself as an “anticopyright organization” and offers music, movies, television shows and software, as well as e-books like textbooks — not a single item of which, it boasts, has ever been removed at the request of a copyright owner.

When a copyright holder sends the Pirate Bay a removal request, the letter is posted on the site with a sarcastic response, like inquiring where an invoice should be sent for the costs of “Web publishing and hosting services” that Pirate Bay incurred when it posted the notice. I corresponded last week with Peter Sunde, a Pirate Bay founder, asking about evidence of greater interest in textbook titles. He said his site does not collect statistics about downloads because of privacy concerns, but generally, he said, the volume of e-book downloads had increased.

The textbook publishers have abundantly good reasons to promote e-books. When Cengage sells an e-book version of “Organic Chemistry” directly to students, for $109.99, it not only cuts out the middleman but also reduces the supply of used books at the end of the semester.

THE e-book is wrapped with digital rights management, which, history indicates, will be broken sooner or later. But as long as it does work, digital publishing with a subscription model is a much fairer basis for the business. Such an arrangement spreads revenue across multiple semesters, so it isn’t the unfortunate few students in the first semester with a new edition who shoulder the bulk of the burden.

A one-semester e-book subscription does require a change in expectations. Students cannot sell their texts at the end of a course, so buying one can’t be viewed as a short-term investment to be cashed out. But as students show no attachment to textbooks in any case, the loss of access after semester’s end seems likely to go unlamented.
836 2008-07-27 But our Puritan work ethic has been part of our culture for just as long. Some employees are drawn to challenging, demanding work and the outsize financial rewards that can follow. A survey of highly paid American workers published in 2006 by the Center for Work-Life Policy found that 21 percent of them — mostly men, it should be noted — said they worked at least 60 hours a week under highly stressful conditions. Two-thirds of those respondents said they loved their work.

“Americans do seem to want to work longer, and you ask them, ‘Do you like your job?’ and we like our jobs more than other people do,” said Robert Whaples, a professor of economics at Wake Forest University who has studied work hours.

Professor Whaples theorized that when most people were working 12 hours a day or more, obtaining any amount of leisure time was more of a priority. But the general reduction in work hours has helped ease the need for downtime for at least some workers.

Alternatively, he said, “Maybe we’ve convinced ourselves this is what we should be doing” in a world of conspicuous consumption.

Still, long days at work take a serious toll. For starters, it is very hard for employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle when work and commuting consume 60 or more hours a week. It is probably not a coincidence that obesity has become more prevalent as work hours have expanded for some.

Too many hours at the office can also wind up being counterproductive. Employees who are overtired or preoccupied with neglected personal issues are unlikely to perform at their peak. They fall behind, spend more unproductive time at work to catch up, and so on.

It is in managers’ interests to help employees find ways to get more done in less time, and some are trying.

Sprint Nextel, for example, offers its employees time-saving services like the ability to fill prescriptions at work and help with travel planning, said Collier Case, Sprint’s director of health and productivity. There are also incentives to stay active at work: the headquarters in Overland Park, Kan., has covered pathways between buildings, and stairwells are designed to be inviting. (Also, some elevators operate at deliberately slow speeds.)

Other companies are addressing the problems of long hours head on. About a year ago, the financial services asset management group at Ernst & Young began trying to cope better with its busy season, roughly February to May, when long stretches of 11- and 12-hour days and weekend work are the norm. Arthur Tully, the partner in charge of the group, went to his manager, who offered to pay for consultants who could help change the group’s work style.

The consultants emphasized the inefficiency of multitasking (nothing gets done very well); the need for adequate sleep, exercise and a healthy diet; and the importance of scheduling time for restorative personal priorities.

Things changed. Free fruit was supplied twice daily, and bagels and cream cheese were replaced with granola and fruit. Employees were also urged to limit weekend work to one day when feasible, and get home to their families on Friday nights.

“There’s a view that the longer you work, the better you are,” Mr. Tully said. “But that’s not true at all.”

It was the group’s busiest season ever, Mr. Tully said, but employees’ hours declined over all. He does not yet know what effect the program had on turnover, but at least one part of it has been made permanent. The fruit deliveries ended after the busy season, and employees objected immediately. The fruit, Mr. Tully said, is back.
837 2008-07-27 The frenzy that many children face to get into the right school is particularly acute for those who aspire to a career in the performing arts, and attending camps can be a steppingstone to Broadway or even Hollywood. The competition among these children, and among the camps vying for their tuition money, is more heated than ever.

According to the American Camp Association, the number of accredited performing arts camps grew to 804 in June 2007 from 527 in December 2001, a jump of 40 percent. Peg Smith, the organization’s chief executive, said the increase could be attributed in part to the elimination of school arts programs and the popularity of films like “High School Musical” and reality shows like “American Idol.”

Theater camp is pushing its way into mainstream pop culture. MTV is filming a documentary at the French Woods Festival of the Performing Arts, a camp in Hancock, N.Y. Last month, Disney’s made-for-TV movie “Camp Rock” opened to 8.9 million viewers; a sequel is under way. Not be left out, 19 Entertainment and FremantleMedia, the companies behind “American Idol,” founded Idol Camp, where series castoffs like Bucky Covington hold master classes.

To compete in this marketplace, camps are expected to offer top-notch facilities and professional staff. French Woods recently installed a second recording studio. Last summer, campers at Stagedoor Manor participated in a youth-friendly adaptation of “Sweeney Todd,” with Stephen Sondheim e-mailing changes to the score.

STAGEDOOR MANOR and French Woods, along with the Interlochen Center for the Arts, in Michigan, are considered the gold standard of theater camps. Stagedoor, founded in 1975, caps its enrollment at 288 children a session, and spots fill up nine months ahead; campers — from precocious West Virginians to Ron Howard’s daughters — are admitted first come first served (with returning campers getting a first shot).

French Woods, founded in 1970, enrolls at least twice as many children as Stagedoor; over 12 weeks some 2,400 will attend the camp; alumni include Zooey Deschanel and Jon Favreau.

While the average overnight camp costs $400 to $700 a week, according to the American Camp Association, Stagedoor Manor and French Woods charge closer to $5,000 for a three-week session. “Parents want to get quality for their money,” said Jennifer Rudin, the director of casting and talent development for Disney Theatrical Productions (and a Stagedoor alumna herself).

Ron Schaefer, the owner of French Woods, plays down the notion that these camps are engaged in creative one-upmanship. “New programs are a response to what the kids want,” he said.

And what they want, it seems, is intensity. Max Ehrich, 17, of Marlboro, N.J., spent seven summers at French Woods. In November he will be seen as a principal dancer in the feature film “High School Musical 3.” Still, he said, the most stressful audition he’s ever had was for a French Woods production of “Into the Woods.” “If you weren’t on your game,” Mr. Ehrich said, “the directors would call you out.”

Whatever other activities these camps may offer, most children admit they attend solely for the intensive theater training. In six summers at Stagedoor Manor, Mr. Koplik is proud to report that he’s been swimming exactly once. And that was for a swim test. “No one told me it was optional,” he said. (The camp’s indoor pool was recently converted into a theater space with a spring-loaded dance floor.)

Nothing brings out the self-imposed competitiveness of these campers like a visit from an industry professional. Ms. Rudin of Disney has scouted at Interlochen and refers to Stagedoor as “one-stop shopping.” When the composer Jason Robert Brown came to Stagedoor Manor last summer to scout children for his Broadway-bound musical “13,” campers repeatedly changed their hair and outfits to impress him (he also went to French Woods).

“It was like rock camp and Paul McCartney showed up,” said Roxanne Schoenfeld, 18.

This level of dedication and professional exposure at such a young age once worried Mr. Koplik’s mother, Dani Ticktin Koplik. Having worked at a talent agency and a movie studio, she said she was wary of the seedier side of the business. “You look at some kids, and their parents are pushing them so hard,” she said. “But I sincerely believe they peak early and they get turned off by the business.”

Ms. Koplik once sent her son to a sports camp hoping he would receive a more well-rounded experience, but her concern that he might be limiting himself has long since vanished.

“Matthew takes his training seriously,” Ms. Koplik said. “And he’s thriving. This is a very nurturing environment.”

Newer theater programs are courting high-profile teachers to compete with the better-established camps. The brochure for Flying Swan, an intensive acting program for students age 15 to 20, held at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., advertises guest lectures from Sam Waterston, the actor of “Law & Order” fame. In Los Angeles, the acting coach Howard Fine is one of the principal instructors at Deborah Gibson’s Camp Electric Youth, a new program based in Los Angeles.

“We’re living in the day and age of ‘American Idol’ where everything seems instant,” said Ms. Gibson, the pop singer who made her Broadway debut in “Les Misérables” in 1992. “You can win your career on television. But you can’t sustain it without the training.” She added that she was able to recruit Mr. Fine by explaining to him that children are “just little adults.”

Many theater-industry veterans say that a precocious careerism has become more common among young performers. In 2006, the producer David Stone, an alumnus of French Woods (where he played Wilbur in “Charlotte’s Web”) invited children from his former playground to see “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee” on Broadway. Mr. Stone said that at a Q. and A. after the show: “These kids asked the most sophisticated questions. Like, ‘How do you get an agent?’ ‘What’s it like to do the show every day?’ Questions about an actor’s process.”

For some former campers, theater camp was as much about preparing for a career as it was about finding a place to fit in. “I was a big theater nerd growing up in Orlando,” said Mandy Moore, the singer and actress, who spent two summers at Stagedoor. (She played one of the brothers in “Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.”) “There weren’t many of us around.”

Today’s future theater stars are seeking training even earlier. When 8-year-old Jack DeVillers first heard about Camp Electric Youth on “Entertainment Tonight,” he hit pause on his DVR and ran to get his mother. “He said it was his destiny,” said his mother, Julia DeVillers, a children’s book author. The DeVillers live outside Columbus, Ohio, where Jack recently starred as the rooster in a school adaptation of “The Musicians of Bremen.” When he grows up, he says, he would like to be “a fashion designer, a rock star and an actor.”

Jack spent two weeks at Camp Electric Youth this summer, performing for executives from Universal Records, among other industry professionals. But it wasn’t about the career boost, his mother said, as much as it was about the educational opportunities and the sense of community.

If there was any doubt about where her son belonged, she said, he entertained himself on the plane by watching episodes of MTV’s “Legally Blonde the Musical: The Search for Elle Woods.”
838 2008-07-27 PUT on a hard hat, stand on the roof of the building under construction at 211 Elizabeth Street, and look north. You will see an old brick building, across Prince Street, with white ornamentation around the windows. To the right is another old brick building, with a newer brick addition where the cornice used to be. Next to that is a third brick building.

Brick, in other words, is the architectural norm in this part of town, which is called either Little Italy or NoLIta. The building at 211 Elizabeth, as it happens, is brick too. But unlike its neighbors, it is brand-new, which may not be obvious if its designers and developers get their way.

The goal, Robin Standefer, the designer, explained last week, is to recede into the neighborhood’s fabric rather than stand out, and to evoke the brickwork of neighboring buildings that have stood for a century. As Ms. Standefer spoke, she stood on the roof amid piles of bricks, buckets of mortar and a crew of mostly Irish masons placing those bricks along the top edge of the building.

In an era when most new buildings are glass, and many new brick buildings are made from factory-generated brick panels, the idea behind 211 Elizabeth — an intricately ornamented facade, with bricks laid carefully by hand — counts as a bold concept, even if it is similar to the approach used for all the old buildings nearby.

“We wanted something that really fit in, but also showed, on a craftsmanship level, that you can still do it,” said Ms. Standefer, the co-founder, with her husband, Stephen Alesch, of the firm Roman and Williams.
839 2008-07-27 Katherine Anne Wagner-McCoy and Jacob Paul Goldstein were married on Saturday in Livingston, N.Y. Michael Kaufman, the marriage officer of Livingston, officiated at a private barn the couple rented for the occasion, and Jerome Raik, the spiritual leader of the Agadah School in Manhattan, led a ceremony incorporating some Jewish traditions.

The bride and the bridegroom graduated from Harvard and received law degrees from Columbia, where they met.

The bride, 31, is a staff lawyer at the Bronx Defenders, a nonprofit Bronx organization that provides free legal representation.

She is a daughter of Marsha L. Wagner and Richard C. McCoy of Manhattan. Her father is an English professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. Her mother is the ombudsman at Columbia.

The bridegroom, 29, is a law clerk for Judge Chester J. Straub of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan. Mr. Goldstein received a master’s degree in classics at Oxford.

He is a son of Helen Jacobson and Barry Goldstein, both of Newton, Mass. His mother is the president of the board of the Boston chapter of 826 National, a nonprofit organization for improving the writing skills of children and adolescents. She retired as the chief academic officer at the English High School, a public school in Jamaica Plain, Mass. His father is a computer software programming consultant.
840 2008-07-27 Carissa Beth Lee, the daughter of Pamela A. Lee and Dewey Lee of Hopewell Junction, N.Y., was married on Saturday to Peter Justin Sumner, the son of Susan J. Sumner and Peter E. Sumner of Marcy, N.Y. The Rev. Sean Quinlan, a Baptist minister, officiated at the Grandview, a reception hall in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

The bride and the bridegroom graduated from Houghton College in Houghton, N.Y., where they met.

Mrs. Sumner, 25, is a fourth-grade teacher at Public School 2 in Manhattan. She is studying for a master’s degree in literacy at City College. Her father is an assistant New York State attorney general; his office is in Poughkeepsie. Her mother is a nursery school teaching assistant at Acorns to Oaks, a day care and preschool in Lagrangeville, N.Y.

Mr. Sumner, 26, is a fourth-year medical student at the Fort Lauderdale, Fla., campus of Nova Southeastern University. His father repairs power and gas lines for National Grid, a British power company that provides electricity and natural gas to communities in upstate New York. He works in New Hartford, N.Y.
841 2008-07-27 “We expect further job losses here for the next two years,” Ms. Mantell said, “but we anticipate adding 250,000 jobs over the next 10 years.”

In the last year, nearly 80 percent of the state’s new jobs were in service sector areas like education, health care, leisure and hospitality. Major job losses were in manufacturing and finance, the latter a direct result of a general softening of the housing market.

“Manufacturing and finance will continue to lose jobs, though more slowly than in the recent past, and employment in the information industry will decline as well,” Ms. Mantell said. “The cyclical nature of the construction industry will leave it with almost no net job change.”

One of the few nonservice parts of the state’s economy where jobs are likely to be added is transportation and warehousing. And that shift may be attributable to high fuel prices, said James W. Hughes, dean of the university’s Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy.

Increasingly, cargoes landing at the ports in Newark and Elizabeth are being shipped to warehouses in Pennsylvania’s Lehigh Valley, where land and labor costs are lower than in New Jersey, he said.

Meanwhile, space in buildings along the Turnpike’s midsection at Exits 7A and 8A — half that distance from the port — is going begging. With higher fuel prices the longer trips could become increasingly uneconomical.

“With diesel fuel at $5 a gallon, the situation may change,” Mr. Hughes said. “In the long run, you cannot change geography.”

Despite the slump in housing prices, the fundamental factors that drive demand for housing are positive, Mr. O’Keefe said, pointing out that the state’s population is growing and people need somewhere to live.

The state added 254,000 residents between 2000 and 2007. According to the report, 629,000 more people will make the state their home in the next 10 years, pushing the total to more than 9 million by 2013.

New Jersey residents’ income has grown and is expected to continue to do so. It rose by what the report termed an “extraordinary” 7.4 percent in 2006, before falling to 5.4 percent the following year. The recession in the state will cut income growth to 4 percent for the next two years before resuming at an average rate of 5 percent for the remainder of the forecast.

With the frenzy for single-family homes abated for now, Mr. O’Keefe noted that other trends have started to emerge. Multifamily housing in older, urban areas is increasing while restrictions on developing the dwindling stock of open land are limiting classic suburban development.

Mr. O’Keefe said that through May of this year, 40.1 percent of all building permits in the state were issued in Hudson, Essex and Bergen Counties and 80.1 percent of them were for multifamily buildings.
842 2008-07-27 In the art world, as elsewhere, a kind of 1960s nostalgia is back in vogue. That era’s experimentation and radicalism certainly seem to underlie Tacita Dean’s installation at Dia:Beacon. In April 2007, Ms. Dean, a 43-year-old, British-born, Berlin-based artist, shot six subtly different short films of the legendary choreographer and dancer Merce Cunningham, who had just turned 88, as he performed “Stillness,” in which his minimalist choreography is adapted to John Cage’s radical, equally minimal 1952 composition “4’33.”

In each of these films, shot from different angles, the camera remains focused on Mr. Cunningham, who sits motionless in a chair in his New York dance studio. The static, largely silent scenes are disrupted every now and then when Trevor Carlson, the director of the Cunningham Dance Company, signals Mr. Cunningham, who then changes his posture or facial expression.

It goes without saying that there isn’t much to look at. But that is the point, for Mr. Cage and Mr. Cunningham devoted their careers to exploring the limits and possibilities of their respective time-based art practices. In particular, Mr. Cunningham pioneered the development of what is often referred to by art and dance historians and critics as “nonrepresentative” dance, which highlights simple and subtle movement. In this case, it is almost no movement at all.

Mr. Cage’s composition is essentially silent, reliant on chance ambient noise. There is no score. Thus in Mr. Cunningham’s performances the soundtrack comes from the environment around his studio, which changes from film to film, and includes sounds like traffic noise, people talking and even the distant echo of a piano playing.

Each film is projected onto a hanging or floor-mounted screen of some kind from a carefully calibrated distance so as to render the seated image of Mr. Cunningham life-size. Some of the projectors are up to 40 feet from the screens. This would present problems for most museums, but not Dia, where the films are installed in a vast, cavernous, completely dark subterranean space.

Dia:Beacon, which opened five years ago, occupies a 292,000-square-foot former Nabisco factory building on the banks of the Hudson River. The basement, once used for storage, now hosts temporary shows, with the museum’s impressive collection of works by artists of the 1960s and 70s in the galleries upstairs.
843 2008-07-27 “Everybody who I worked with had their own responsibility to do concerts,” Mr. Reed said. “I’d been a musician previously, so I knew what it was like to get the gigs and stuff like that. But I didn’t envision what I did as a label as being the artist-management side of it. That’s never been my interest. It’s always been about trying to imagine and create the most extraordinary records you could come across.”

The initial spark for New Albion came through Mr. Reed’s association with Ingram Marshall. Mr. Reed used an inheritance to record works by Mr. Marshall, including “Gradual Requiem,” in which Mr. Reed played the mandolin. John Adams, in his forthcoming memoir, “Hallelujah Junction,” compares Mr. Reed to one of Beethoven’s benefactors, calling him Mr. Marshall’s “personal Count Razumovsky, functioning in the role of performer, patron and funder for the work’s recording.”

Mr. Marshall, speaking by telephone from his home in New Haven, chuckled at the characterization. “It’s a pretty esoteric reference,” he said. “You have to know that Count Razumovsky was not only a wealthy patron but a musician.”

In 1982 Mr. Marshall talked to ECM, a German jazz label that had begun to record contemporary classical works, about recording some of his works, including “Fog Tropes,” a sonorous meditation for brass sextet and recorded foghorns. When those plans fell through in 1983, he and Mr. Reed made the record themselves. During the same session Mr. Reed recorded Mr. Adams’s “Light Over Water” for a limited-edition LP; he later reissued it with a recording of Mr. Adams’s “Shaker Loops” licensed from 1750 Arch, a defunct San Francisco label.

The albums signaled the advent of San Francisco’s post-Minimalist generation, composers who embraced unambiguous melody and dreamy, evocative textures. New Albion became the epicenter for composers and artists who were otherwise underrepresented on records, particularly Mr. Harrison. Most were connected to California. But when Ms. Tan, the pianist, approached Mr. Reed on behalf of Somei Satoh, a Japanese composer, he felt that Mr. Satoh’s esoteric Minimalism suited his label’s emerging aesthetic.

“I was thinking of a kind of lyrical orbit that starts with Debussy and works its way through history,” Mr. Reed said. A self-trained musician who made a folk-rock album in 1968, then studied literature at Goddard College in the mid-’70s, Mr. Reed approached notated music as an enlightened amateur with poetic sensibilities.

“It had to be really unusual and interesting, but at the same time it’s a kind of music that I want to hear a second time,” he said. “So it needs to have something in the realm of melody, narration, drama or color that will keep my head turned listening to it.” Departing from the spartan aesthetic prevalent in new-music circles, Mr. Reed presented his discoveries in elegant, eye-catching packages with clear, approachable liner notes.

Like the composers whose works he had promoted, Mr. Reed pursued an expanding range of interests, making discs of adventurous jazz, traditional music from Bolivia and North Sumatra, and medieval works performed by Ensemble PAN (Project Ars Nova), a refined early music consort. He issued notable recordings of music by Karlheinz Stockhausen and Virgil Thomson, neither of whom was Californian. A recording of “Rothko Chapel” by Morton Feldman, a quintessential New Yorker, became his top seller.

Ms. Cahill, the pianist, who has recorded music by Ravel, Ruth Crawford Seeger, Leo Ornstein and Mr. Gann for New Albion, praised Mr. Reed’s willingness to follow where his ear led him. “I’ve definitely been the beneficiary of that,” she said from San Francisco. “He doesn’t say, ‘Oh, no, Leo Ornstein doesn’t fit in at all.’ He listens to it and thinks, ‘Is this something I want to do?’ ”

If New Albion has wandered away from its geographical mooring, so has the scene it originally represented. “The whole East Coast-West Coast thing as a paradigm doesn’t work too well,” Mr. Marshall said. “I think it’s more Uptown-Downtown. You could say the West Coast is kind of Downtown. Geographically it’s not that important. We’re sort of a diaspora.”

Mr. Gann agrees. “The idea of California has sort of bled into the rest of the country, and geographically things are just not as neat as they used to be,” he said. “There are several different aesthetics across America, and there’s one that used to be associated with the West Coast. Maybe you can’t call it a West Coast aesthetic anymore, but it is certainly some kind of mellow post-Minimalist aesthetic that a lot of people were involved in.”

You could even say that Mr. Reed’s efforts have helped that sound to evolve. Christopher Tignor, a young New York composer whose electro-acoustic ensemble, Slow Six, recently released a disc on New Albion, said the label’s recordings influenced his stylistic development.

“I learned about art music by going to Tower Records and buying CDs,” he said. What attracted him to New Albion releases was the attractive cover art and a laid-back yet rigorous vibe he could relate to the post-rock groups he admired, like Slint. “They obviously were not studying that stuff,” he said, “but the influence trickles down in very obvious ways.”

For now the advent of Slow Six also represents a pause in the New Albion lineage: Mr. Reed is stepping away from the business, at least temporarily, to assess what place his artfully conceived, exactingly produced recordings might have in a download-driven world.

“I’m going to take my family to Argentina for three months,” he said. “I’m going to rent a house in a town that’s kind of like Sonoma, study Spanish, go to the library and walk around. And then after that, I’ll see what’s beckoning.”
844 2008-07-27 This article took me back to New York Philharmonic concerts at Carnegie Hall during the 1960s.

On Thursday nights Leonard Bernstein used to give a 15-minute pre-concert lecture. On one occasion the program included aleatory music, music of chance, by John Cage. Bernstein explained that Cage threw some sand into the air over music paper and, wherever the sand fell, he wrote a note.

After a few more remarks he said, “The final number on our program will be Ravel’s ‘La Valse.’ If you think that we threw that in as a sop, you are absolutely correct.”

As I recall, the Cage was so-so, the Ravel terrific.
845 2008-07-27 It doesn’t take a terrorist, a serial killer or some paranormal force to rattle the insular Norwegian communities Karin Fossum writes about in her quietly unnerving thrillers. In BLACK SECONDS (Harcourt, $24), all it takes is the disappearance of a child. Granted, this is no ordinary kiddie — 9-year-old Ida Joner is so “sweet and enchanting” she’s “like a child in a fairy tale.” Everyone in the village of Glassverket loves Ida, but none more than her mother, who idolizes her golden girl. A sad, fatalistic woman, Helga Joner has always felt that Ida was “just too good to be true. ... Too good to last,” and when Ida vanishes after setting off on her new yellow bicycle to buy a magazine, the distraught Helga goes to pieces.

But she isn’t the only distressed mother Inspector Konrad Sejer encounters when he arrives in Glassverket to investigate Ida’s disappearance. Ruth Rix, Helga’s sunnier sister, is disturbed by the antisocial behavior of her truculent teenage son, Tomme, who is running around with a 22-year-old delinquent named Willy. And although Willy is the kind of fellow mothers consider a bad influence, his own mother feels differently — and becomes alarmed when he fails to return from an excursion to Copenhagen.

The most unforgettable mother in the story, however, is Elsa Marie Mork, a bitter old woman who fanatically cleans house as a way of staving off the fears she harbors about her mentally retarded adult son, Emil. Elsa has a rough tongue that’s forever lashing this hulking fellow, who lives alone, rides around on a three-wheeled bicycle and has spoken only one word — “No” — in 50 years. “Her heart was encased in a hard shell, but it still beat with compassion on the inside,” Fossum writes, observing this brittle woman with detached, heartbreaking tenderness.

These are the women the detective finds waiting anxiously for answers, and perhaps for some solace. But if Sejer is ever to assume that burden of compassion, he must find a way to get past the secrets and lies people have thrown up like battlement walls. And none are more impenetrable than the silence that both protects and isolates Emil. Eventually, that barrier also falls — not to violent attack but to Sejer’s kindness and the strength of the social bonds of village life. “Ida’s disappearance was like a net and it drew them all in,” Fossum explains. “They were united in something,” and that unity is not to be taken lightly. More than providing neighbors a common topic of gossip, the loss of a perfect child implies something awful about the future of their own imperfect children and, indeed, about the entire village.

Dave Robicheaux, the Louisiana lawman in James Lee Burke’s existential crime novels, is your prototypical running man. Honorable beyond question but scarred by experiences that have left him prone to “bloodlust,” Dave keeps trying to outrun the ghosts of his past while chasing a hopeless dream — to restore some lost innocence in a corrupt world. SWAN PEAK (Simon & Schuster, $25.95) finds Dave and his sidekick, Clete Purcel, in western Montana, hoping to exorcise the nightmare of Hurricane Katrina with a little trout fishing and clean mountain air. But for all Burke’s ecstatic invocations to the majesty of the Bitterroot Mountains (“the last good place”), this is no Garden of Eden. The millionaire rancher next door is drilling for oil and natural gas, thugs are hassling Clete about his role in the demise of a local mobster, and two college students have been tortured and murdered — one of the bodies dumped on the ranch of Dave’s friend and host. “The West isn’t the same place or culture I grew up in,” the sheriff says, echoing Dave’s own laments. Too true. But the rugged setting makes a grand stage for these battered characters, living “on the ragged edges of America” and slugging their way through this big, brawling novel.

Setting a whodunit in an amateur writers’ workshop is hardly an original notion. But it does offer the chance to inject some literary humor into the classic locked-room mystery even as it encourages close analysis of writers and the craft of writing, which is Jincy Willett’s strategy in THE WRITING CLASS (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin’s, $24.95). Not that Willett doesn’t get her comic digs in. A suicide note in the form of a poem, along with its cruel parody from a phantom “sniper” imbedded in the group, constitute first-rate satire. But the weekly sessions at a California extension university taught by a washed-up novelist named Amy Gallup offer more practical instruction than scorn. And while the would-be writers do get their knuckles rapped (and two unfortunates are murdered), not even the mean-spirited sniper can find anything evil to say about the endearing Amy, whose quirky Web site (called “Go Away”) is a gold mine of literary nuggets.
846 2008-07-27 While Creative Artists is aggressively expanding into areas like sports and corporate consulting, Endeavor says it has smoothed its rougher, frat house edges and is trying to take advantage of ownership deals, in which Endeavor clients take a stake in their work rather than just being paid a handsome fee.

Mr. Ovitz says that Mr. Emanuel “and his crew have done the same thing we did, and people don’t really give that enough weight. In some strange, blasé way, it’s taken for granted.”

For his part, Mr. Emanuel says he takes nothing for granted. “I feel like we’re just getting started,” he says in an interview in the hilltop home of one of his partners, Patrick Whitesell.

Acknowledging speculation that Endeavor is being groomed for a sale or merger, the partners said they had routinely discussed that possibility in the past without finding a combination that overcame the ego and turf issues endemic to the talent trade. They assert that no sale or merger is in the works.

Meanwhile, however, the entertainment business itself is transforming, as digital media supplant conventional television networks and movie theaters. Mr. Emanuel insists that Hollywood’s future looks robust, despite a pullback among outside film investors and the determination of television executives to trim budgets.

MR. Emanuel, a close-cropped, sharp-tongued model for the fictional Ari Gold of the HBO series “Entourage,” says it’s all simply a matter of supply and demand.

“You have the same number of content creators,” he says. “But distribution has grown.”

Mr. Emanuel thinks rising opportunity has surpassed the supply of talent, putting clients and their agents (at least those he deems desirable) on the verge of new prosperity, because they can more readily sell their wares to a broader universe of cable television, Internet and independent film buyers. “The lines have crossed,” he says.

Even so, on the conventional film front this year, Endeavor ranks behind Creative Artists, which had about 10 directors and 13 stars in movies like “Iron Man” and “What Happens in Vegas.” Endeavor landed six directors and nine stars in projects like “The Incredible Hulk” and the comedy “Tropic Thunder.”

A closely watched ranking of television client deals compiled annually by TVtracker.com put Endeavor in the top slot for last year, with a slight edge over Creative Artists in overall network and cable deals — 376 to 359 — and a clear edge in the representation of “showrunners,” the writer-producers who supervise television series.

Endeavor is paid packaging fees on “Boston Legal,” “Gossip Girl” and others, while Creative Artists reaps the fees from shows like “E.R.” and “Cold Case.”

All of this amounts to real money, by the way.

Endeavor’s revenue is estimated to be a bit more than $100 million a year, well under half that of Creative Artists, according to people at both agencies who spoke anonymously to avoid conflict within either company. (Endeavor partners declined to give a figure, and Michael Mand, a spokesman for Creative Artists, declined to comment.)

Both William Morris and International Creative Management, two agencies that rank behind Creative Artists and Endeavor in the Hollywood pecking order by some measures, appear to have more revenue than Endeavor, thanks in part to what agents like to call “legacy” — steady cash flow from movie and television work booked over long decades of representation. (The ticklish game of ranking agencies is something of an apples-and-oranges exercise, as each firm has pursued different strategies.)

Virtually all of Endeavor’s profit after salaries and bonuses is distributed to partners annually. Without much in the way of physical assets or retained earnings, Endeavor, like many agencies, is an ephemeral business.

It has tried to leverage its smaller size by building an esprit de corps reminiscent of Creative Artists’ early days. Its offices, designed by the architect Neil Denari, feature sculpted spaces and white halls. Departments are deliberately mixed: television packaging agents work side-by-side with those representing movie writers or major stars.

Promotion from within is the rule — about 35 of the 80 or so agents started in the mailroom or as assistants — and the agency attempts to govern itself democratically (Hollywood egos notwithstanding).

Mr. Emanuel and Mr. Whitesell, without corporate titles, join Rick Rosen of the television department and Adam Venit, a motion picture talent agent, as fixed members of a seven-member executive committee. The remaining slots are filled for two-year terms according to a vote by the agency’s 26 partners.

Several former clients privately maintain that Endeavor’s internal coordination lags. They note that Creative Artists is quicker to match its clients with each other, for instance, by pairing an available script with an agency-represented director. Endeavor leans more toward individual representation, with agents inclined to advance and protect their own clients.

Yet Endeavor continues to hold its own with clients. In the last few rounds of client swapping, Endeavor lost Ashton Kutcher to Creative Artists, which lost Robert De Niro to Endeavor. Two longtime agents joined William Morris from Endeavor, which signed three others from International Creative Management.

In the last three months, Endeavor also picked up a string of high-profile comedians that includes three A-listers: Ben Stiller, Jack Black and Amy Poehler.

As it mixes it up with other agencies, Endeavor is also maturing into something more than an upstart. “The firm grew up,” said Thomas Strickler, a movie agent who joined Mr. Emanuel, Mr. Rosen and David Greenblatt (who has since left Endeavor) as a co-founder of Endeavor. That has meant trying to abandon rougher elements of a corporate culture that landed the agency in serious trouble about seven years after its birth.

IN April 2002, an agent named Sandra Epstein sued Endeavor, alleging, among other things, sexual harassment and pointing out that at one point she had been the lone woman among a dozen male agents.

According to court papers, Ms. Epstein ultimately settled her claims for $2.25 million. But not before underwriters at Lloyd’s of London, Endeavor’s insurer, canceled the agency’s employment practices policy, provoking a second suit by Endeavor against Lloyd’s and a law firm the insurers had been paying to represent the agency.

In depositions and court filings in the second suit — ultimately settled under undisclosed terms — Ms. Epstein and other Endeavor employees described office escapades that included rampant pot-smoking, obscene hazing at corporate retreats, sexual frolics on desks, and one agent demanding that his assistants book prostitutes for him.

Mr. Emanuel, the filings said, allowed a friend to operate a pornographic Web site out of the agency’s quarters. Also, according to Ms. Epstein’s filings, Mr. Emanuel made antigay and racist remarks — accusations he disputed at the time.

Ms. Epstein said Mr. Emanuel blocked her from sending a script about the Navy Seals to the actor Wesley Snipes. “That is the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard,” the agent was reported in the papers to have said. “Everyone knows that blacks don’t swim.”

Endeavor’s partners said they were blocked by legal agreements from discussing the case.

The case came at a time of upheaval at Endeavor, but it weathered its problems. Today, about half of Endeavor’s agents and a quarter of its partners are women. Managers at the company say that it has no African-American agents but that it has had some in the past. Women who work at the firm say things have changed.

“Man or woman, it doesn’t matter,” said Nancy Josephson, a partner who joined the company in 2006. “I can’t tell you the number of times Ari Emanuel has said to me, ‘I’ve got your back.’ ”

Today, Endeavor — like some of its competitors — has focused on what it calls “the entrepreneurial client.” That list includes stars and other creative clients who have a stake in the enterprises most closely associated with them, like the writer-producer-performer Ricky Gervais (“The Office”) and the former supermodel Tyra Banks (“America’s Next Top Model”).

Ideally, such clients create and often retain ownership in projects that can bounce through iterations on movie screens, the stage, cable television or the Internet — generating revenue for the agency and its allies at each turn.

The British comic Mr. Gervais, for instance, was a writer, director and star of “This Side of the Truth,” a movie set for next year about a man who invents lying in a world where it didn’t exist. Earlier this month, he brought his live stage show to Hollywood and used the visit to grab media attention for another of his films, “Ghost Town.”

Endeavor also has to retain a foothold in the television industry as it is reinvented, with more reality programming and a shift away from the big networks. When Endeavor was founded, Mr. Rosen notes, it focused on representing television writer-producers, had few filmmakers and had virtually no movie stars in its stable. “We’re now close to 50-50,” Mr. Rosen said of its film and television businesses.

In today’s cable-driven world, television agents are pursuing more buyers who generally pay less than the conventional broadcast networks, while also navigating the business of making television pilots — a craft that was heavily damaged by the recent writers’ strike.

While television has become challenging, Endeavor has had an easier time expanding its film business by raiding agents from other firms — an expensive proposition, though Mr. Emanuel insists that his agency has never “paid retail” for new agents.

A tipping point came when Mr. Whitesell arrived from Creative Artists in 2001, bringing with him much-needed stars like Ben Affleck, Matt Damon and Christian Bale, star of the new Batman movie, “The Dark Knight.” John Lesher (now a top executive at Paramount) joined the next year, bringing sophisticated filmmakers like David O. Russell. (Mr. Venit had arrived several years earlier, bringing Adam Sandler to the agency.)

The accretion led, finally, to this year’s strong showing in the high-stakes summer season, following a spectacular performance at the Oscars in 2007, when clients took a raft of awards for films like “The Departed” and “Little Miss Sunshine.”

But some key Endeavor partners are in their 40s, approaching the age at which Mr. Ovitz and his acolytes at Creative Artists began to itch for new pursuits.

For example, Mr. Emanuel — whose brothers are Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois and the bioethicist Ezekiel Emanuel — hasn’t been without distractions. He has been at the front of Senator Barack Obama’s Hollywood campaign but says he doesn’t intend to make politics a full-time occupation or to put aside a personal client list that includes Larry David, Mark Wahlberg and Martin Scorsese.

Mr. Venit and Mr. Rosen both say they intend to stay put. And Mr. Whitesell, a gravelly voiced 43-year-old, concurs, saying that Endeavor has become too interesting of late for him to even think about leaving.

“People want to be a part of it,” he says.
847 2008-07-27 THE Manhattan co-op market has just set a sales record, according to brokers briefed on the sale.

Jonathan Tisch, the chairman and chief executive of Loews Hotels, closed this month on the purchase of a sprawling 14-room co-op facing Central Park, for $48 million, the brokers said. The apartment is on the 11th floor at 2 East 67th Street, one of the monuments to luxury living designed by Rosario Candela in the 1920s.

The previous record was set in January, when Scott Bommer, the chairman of the hedge fund SAB Capital, and his wife, Donya, paid $46 million for two co-op apartments at 1060 Fifth Avenue, at 87th Street, facing the Central Park Reservoir. (These prices are easily surpassed in the New York City condominium market; a year ago Harry Macklowe, the developer, paid $52 million for a condo at the Plaza.)

“The sheer depth of the wealth at the high end continues to be quite remarkable,” said Kirk Henckels, a broker at Stribling & Associates.

Mr. Tisch bought the apartment in mid-July from Angelika Ronson, the widow of Howard Ronson, a major developer of Manhattan office space in the 1980’s. The apartment includes four bedrooms, three maid’s rooms and six and a half baths, a private elevator landing and fireplaces in many rooms.

According to an account pieced together from several brokers, Ms. Ronson put the apartment on the market in June 2007 for $40 million with Serena Boardman of Sotheby’s International Realty, just a few months after her husband’s death. But after receiving multiple offers, she decided to take it off the market.
848 2008-07-27 That Ms. Fisher can laugh at herself (and make others laugh with her) has been evident since 1987, when she published her best-selling semi-autobiographical novel “Postcards From the Edge.” Although she continued to draw from her own life in subsequent fiction, her public image has been shaped less by her own revelations than by the celebrity reports covering her assorted male companions and her stints in rehab.

Life as tabloid fodder is “more surreal than anything else,” she said.

“People think they know you based on whatever they’ve read,” she said. “They’ve read someone else’s interpretation, some version of who you are, and there is no way you can change that. You can’t control that.”

“Wishful Drinking,” which had its premiere in 2006 in Los Angeles and was directed by Tony Taccone, does make a stab at presenting Ms. Fisher’s version of Ms. Fisher. But even that doesn’t always go as planned, because she has written the audience into it. Having been through her share of psychological tests — she has bipolar disease — she plucked questions from as many as she could get her hands on and devised a psychiatric evaluation quiz that she administers to the audience nightly.

The point is that we’re all a little wacky. “The questions are always so broad,” she said. “The questions they ask to determine whether you’re depressed are questions everybody would say yes to: ‘I’ve been feeling irritable lately’; ‘I feel like I’ve gained a little weight’; ‘I think about sex a lot’; ‘I have felt very fatigued lately.’ ”

She also gets a volunteer to come onstage and help out with a “Star Wars” segment.

“It’s a delicate thing when you have audience participation,” she said, “because you can lose control of the show. You have to be very careful.”

She said she has learned two things from her audiences: First, “People are out of their minds,” and second, “People are very willing and happy to participate.” To judge from her own story, those two things may, in fact, be related.

Though “Wishful Drinking” is Ms. Fisher’s debut as a playwright, being on stage is not a new experience for her. In 1973, her mother starred on Broadway in “Irene,” and Ms. Fisher tagged along to be in the chorus. She said she remembers it fondly. “When you’re a teenager, you want to be a grownup,” she said. “I had a job, I got a salary, I got to hang out with people older than I was. It was a lot of fun.”

But it certainly wasn’t normal. Having been born into show business and celebrity, Ms. Fisher is now herself the mother of a teenager born into show business and celebrity. Can she prevent her daughter from following her into the danger zone that often lurks in the limelight?

“The main thing,” she said, “is that you can’t let them think that that has a value, to court things like that. You want them to know that it’s something to try to avoid. But all kids want attention, and that’s what show biz looks like — a lot of attention.”
849 2008-07-27 WEISS--Leonard A. ''Lenny''. Brother of Muriel, beloved father of Jeff, Bill and Richard, father-in-law of Robin and Tammie, grandfather of Bari, Richard and Perri, companion of Inky. Leonard practiced law in Mount Vernon New York since 1953, orig...
850 2008-07-27 BACK IN BUSINESS Remember Peter R. Dolan? Two years ago, he was ousted as chief of Bristol-Myers Squibb over the handling of a patent dispute regarding the blood thinner Plavix.      Now, Mr. Dolan has finally resurfaced in the industry, joining t...
851 2008-07-28 John and Cindy McCain discussed Mr. McCain's experiences as a prisoner of war in North Vietnam during a fund-raiser Monday....
852 2008-07-28 Doctors call a procedure performed on McCain a minor one...
853 2008-07-28 Last Thursday, in my weekly e-column, I blasted Apple for the way it's been handling the disastrous opening of its MobileMe service. Two weeks after launch, at least 20,000 customers still had no way to send or receive e-mail. The worst part, thou...
854 2008-07-28 In a talk with Brian Williams of the NBC "Nightly News" at his compound in Iran, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran acknowledged recent American moves meant to thaw relations with his country, and hinted that Iran could be persuaded to change i...
855 2008-07-28 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad offers vaguely encouraging words for an American audience....
856 2008-07-28 These days, it seems that Guy Hands can't get no satisfaction. In another blow to EMI Group's private equity owner, The Rolling Stones, the world's top-earning music act last year, have signed with Vivendi's Universal Music Group, leaving EMI afte...
857 2008-07-28 Banks struggling to recover from multibillion-dollar losses on real estate are curtailing loans to American businesses, depriving even healthy companies of money for expansion and hiring. Two vital forms of credit used by companies – commercial ...
858 2008-07-28 The thud of the morning newspaper landing on front porches may one day be replaced with the beep of downloads onto a cellphone. Verve Wireless believes it can save the dying local newspaper by making it mobile. It offers publishers the technology ...
859 2008-07-28 Federal regulators filed insider trading charges on Friday against unidentified individuals who are accused of making suspiciously well-timed purchases of call options in two companies before they announced multibillion-dollar mergers. The case wa...
860 2008-07-28 ANZ bank issued a profit warning on Monday, forecasting more than $1 billion in bad debt charges, as the global credit crisis started to hurt Australia's previously buoyant banks. The announcement sent ANZ shares down as much as 13.2 percent in ea...
861 2008-07-28 Drew Greenblatt, president of Marlin Steel Wire Products, figured it would be easy to get a $300,000 bank loan to finance a new robot for his factory in Baltimore. His company, which makes parts for makers of home appliances, is growing and profitable, he said. His expansion would add three new jobs to an economy hungry for work.

But when Mr. Greenblatt called the local branch of Wachovia — the same bank that had been aggressively marketing loans to him for years — he was distressed by the response.

“The exact words were, ‘We’re saying no to almost everybody,’ ” Mr. Greenblatt recalled. “This is why God made banks, for this kind of transaction. This is going to slow down the American economy.”

Earlier this year, credit extended by banks to companies and consumers was still growing at double-digit rates compared with three months earlier, according to an analysis of Federal Reserve data by Goldman Sachs. By mid-June, bank credit was declining at an annualized pace of more than 6 percent.

That is a drop of nearly $150 billion, an amount much larger than the value of the tax rebates the government has sent to households this year in an effort to spur economic activity.

Financial industry executives say tighter credit from major banks represents a swing back to a realistic assessment of risk, after years of handing out money with abandon. Those practices produced a mortgage crisis whose losses could reach $1 trillion, by many estimates.

“Before, they wouldn’t verify income and they were loose on the valuations of collateral,” said John W. Kiefer, chief executive of First Capital, a private commercial lender. “Now they’re tightening down on the ability to repay. They go off the reservation, and now they come back to basics. It’s preservation for many of them at this point. It’s survival.”

But if the newfound caution of American banks is prudent in the long run, the immediate impact is amplifying the troubles with the economy. The Federal Reserve has been lowering interest rates aggressively to make money flow more loosely and to spur economic activity.

The financial system is not going along: As banks hold on to their dollars, mortgage rates are climbing. So are borrowing costs for corporations.

Some suggest that the banks, spooked by enormous losses, have replaced a disastrously indiscriminate willingness to hand out money with an equally arbitrary aversion to lend — even on industries that continue to grow.

“There’s been a lot of disruption in the credit market, and a lot of traditional lenders have really tightened up,” said Gregory Goldstein, president of Macquarie Equipment Finance, which leases computer gear and other technology to companies. “Before, some of the standards they lent on were weak, but we think they have overshot and gone too far on the other end.”

Such was Mr. Greenblatt’s reaction, as he learned that an infusion of credit for his Baltimore factory would not come easily. His company has been enjoying double-digit sales growth. This month, it received the two largest orders in its history, he said.

“It was jubilation,” he said. “I was doing the Funky Chicken.”

The initial call to Wachovia left him dismayed.

“I’m stunned,” Mr. Greenblatt said. “God is smiling on this factory. We’re at such an exciting inflection point, and this is what a bank is supposed to do. There’s sand in the gears.”

No loan meant one fewer order for the factory in Chicago that makes the robot Mr. Greenblatt wants to buy, and fewer hours for workers there. It meant less business for the truck driver who would have hauled the robot to Baltimore, and no help-wanted ads for Marlin Steel Wire Products.

Mr. Greenblatt eventually got oral approval for the loan, though after more than a week. He was still waiting for the money at the end of last week.

Wachovia, which lost $8.9 billion in the second quarter, declined to discuss the loan. But the bank confirmed that it has been reducing its lending in troubled areas of the economy.

“We’ve got industries that we consider to be stressed industries, and we’re looking at those a lot harder,” said Carlos Evans, a wholesale banking executive for Wachovia, listing as examples housing construction, building products and distributors for those goods. “Our loan growth slowing is more indicative of the economy than anything else.”

Still, Wachovia’s commercial and industrial loans grew by 13 percent in June compared with the prior year, Mr. Evans said.

“We’re saying yes daily,” he said.

But recent signs suggest that tight lending is spilling from housing into other areas of the business world. Companies with solid credit and profitable businesses can generally still get loans, but rates are higher and wait times are longer.

According to a survey of senior loan officers conducted by the Federal Reserve in April, 55 percent of American banks tightened lending requirements for commercial and industrial loans to large and midsize companies — up from about 30 percent in the previous survey, in January. About 70 percent of the respondents said they have made such loans more expensive.

“Banks will be much more cautious and keep raising the bar, and that will lead to an outright decline in total commercial and industrial loans,” predicted Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. “Banks clearly have to rebuild their capital base. They’re going to look a bit more nervously before they make those loans.”

Until last summer, banks lent freely, banking experts say, because they sold most of the loans they issued, making them less concerned about whether the customer could handle the payments: If the loan went bad, that was someone else’s problem.

But in the wake of the mortgage crisis, that system has all but shut down. Banks are now stuck with the loans they extend, making them more motivated to scrutinize their customers, particularly younger and smaller businesses.

“It’s the small business guy who creates most of the jobs,” said Mr. Kiefer, the First Capital chief executive. “If they can’t borrow to employ people, then we’ve got a mess on our hands.”

For the last six months, Saul Epstein has been trying in vain to get a $2 million line of credit for his company, Global Harness Systems. The company, based in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., has a factory in Mexico, where it makes parts for engines. The factory gets paid for its wares weeks after they have shipped, necessitating credit to finance the upfront costs of production — raw materials, labor and transportation.

Mr. Epstein figured that getting a loan would be easy. Since he became chief executive last year, Global Harness has gone from break-even to profitable. Sales should reach $20 million this year, up from $17 million last year, he said. But in this new era of caution, banks are focused on the fact that Global Harness lost money in 2005.

“They keep saying, the way the times are, we need a longer track record,” Mr. Epstein said.

Mr. Epstein, forced to limit his production to what he can finance with his existing cash flow supplemented by his own money, has been tightening credit himself: He has been turning down orders from companies with any whiff of financial troubles, lest his company fail to get paid.

“The same way the bank is hesitant to lend to me, you’re concerned about taking on a customer that might go into bankruptcy,” he said.

George Rosero, president and chief executive of Atlanta Pediatric Therapy, has been trying for more than a month to increase his roughly $500,000 credit line to about $1 million.

His company, profitable for the last two years, offers therapy to children with speech and physical impediments, he said. Mr. Rosero aims to expand by adding four sales people. He wants to buy new software to better manage communications with patients and hire a consultant to improve the work environment.

All of that is on hold.

“Three or four years ago, I could just make a phone call and get an increase,” Mr. Rosero said. “Now, they’re asking me for a lot more information.”
862 2008-07-28 Add high energy prices to a sagging economy in an election year and politicians will inevitably come up with bad policies, like converting the corn crop into ethanol or John McCain’s proposal to suspend the federal gas tax — neither will provide real relief at the pump while both are guaranteed to create other problems.

The good news is that Congress failed last week to cut a deal on two more bad ideas: Republicans’ misguided push for offshore drilling and Democrats’ misbegotten plan to curb speculation in oil futures.

Republicans should know that allowing more offshore drilling might marginally trim oil prices — in about a decade — while sacrificing important environmental protections. Democrats should know that financial speculation is not what’s driving oil prices, and that curbing futures trading could hamper the ability of companies like airlines and oil refineries to manage their risks by locking in the price of oil. Putting them together is compounding one bad idea with another.

Of course, there is plenty of evidence that markets can be manipulated by fraudulent speculation — recall the Enron mess. Yet all evidence suggests that speculation has little to do with the rising price of crude. From rice to iron, commodity prices are all rising, even without much financial speculation, due to a variety of factors including a weak dollar and growing demand from China and India.

A report by government agencies — including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury and Energy Departments — found that speculative trades in oil contracts had little to no effect on the rise in prices over the last five years.

Oil futures are financial contracts for future delivery of oil. Their price has been responding to the same factors: growing world demand in the face of stagnant supply and the expectation that this dynamic will continue.
863 2008-07-28 It is supported by a $10,000 yearly allocation by the borough, Mr. Curtis said, and its slim portfolio of activities includes a once-a-week food bank, a toy distribution program at Christmas, employment workshops and occasional screening sessions for public assistance.

Beyond that, the most important things on the association’s calendar, it seems, are its biannual elections — which have become a focus of political ambitions and a flashpoint of emotions in the community.

After the last election, in 2006, members of a political group whose candidate lost to Mr. Curtis filed a lawsuit in State Supreme Court challenging the results and alleging election fraud and misuse of funds. The lawsuit was dismissed.

In the July 19 elections, candidates from two local political parties were vying for seats on the organization’s seven-member board and for its five executive offices, including the presidency. (Mr. Curtis, who works as a coordinator at a group home for mentally disabled children, has served two two-year terms, the limit under the group’s charter.)

The candidates from Mr. Curtis’s Liberians for Actions and Progress group were running uncontested in most of the races until several days before the June 30 registration deadline, when a new party called Community Action for Change submitted a slate of candidates.

“There was a need for someone to come up and change the status quo,” said Tamba Aghailas, the new party’s candidate for president. The association, he said, has essentially been dominated by one party in the past several years, and “there’s not a lot that they can show that they’ve achieved.”

Mr. Aghailas, a recruiting coordinator at Merrill Lynch who has lived on Staten Island for four years, requested that the association postpone the July 19 elections to allow for a wider registration effort and that voters be allowed to register on election day. But the association rejected his requests.

Mr. Aghailas said in a recent interview that Mr. Curtis’s party had instituted a very selective registration process that ensured support of its slate by most voters.

But association officials insist that about 1,200 Liberians from throughout Staten Island were registered, a record for the organization, and say that Mr. Aghailas’s protest was an effort to buy time because his party had submitted its slate of candidates so late.

“Tamba is what we call a JJC, Johnny Just Come,” Mr. Curtis said. “He’s new. He has not paid his services to the community.”

The polls opened as planned on July 19 in a recreation room of the Park Hill housing project, but pandemonium quickly ensued. There was arguing and shouting, witnesses said. Invectives were hurled and doors were locked.

According to officials from Liberians for Actions and Progress, Mr. Aghailas’s supporters stole a voter registration book.

Mr. Tamba denied that allegation and accused the association’s elections commissioner, Charles Stevens, of losing the records.

As tempers flared, the association’s leaders called the police, but by the time the officers arrived a semblance of order had been restored, and they left quickly, several association officials said.

The elections were postponed, and it was hoped that a new date would be announced at a general assembly on Sunday night, but that meeting itself was postponed, to Aug. 10.

The failure of the July 19 election process seemed to reaffirm some residents’ desultory view of the association — and of Liberian civic leadership in general.

“That’s my people!” said Yvonne Jaja, 38, a home health care worker. “We don’t do nothing right. It’s very sad.”

On a recent morning in Park Hill, Mr. Curtis visited a sidewalk market where Liberian vendors sell such foods as smoked fish and chicken and a special vegetable oil the color of blood. He strode into the group of vendors, all women, with the swagger of a politician on his home turf. But the reception he received was far from adoring.

“When they win the election they don’t do anything,” said one vendor, a woman in traditional Liberian dress. “He should take his money and go home.”

Walters James Weah, vice president of the Union of Liberian Associations in the Americas, a national umbrella group, said the electoral problems in Staten Island’s Liberian community were not unique.

“Almost every chapter has this kind of problem,” said Mr. Weah, a Staten Island resident and the immediate past chairman of the Liberian Community Association’s board. He said that people were “not willing to abide by the rules,” a possible “trickle-down” from Liberia, where democracy is still a new concept.

The current dispute on Staten Island, taken with the problems in 2006, will make the association’s obligation to engage the local community and attract financial support much more difficult, Mr. Weah said.

“Liberians themselves are going to have to sit down and say, ‘Enough is enough,’ ” he said. “This is not an easy process.”
864 2008-07-28 The fire had burned about 25 acres and was contained in under three hours, fire officials said, and no injuries were reported.

Near Yosemite National Park, the wildfire led officials to order the evacuations of 195 homes under immediate threat. About 2,000 homes faced at least some danger from the flames, officials said. No injuries were reported.

Officials are also warning motorists to stay off Highway 140 between Mariposa and Yosemite because of low visibility. This stretch of highway is often used by tourists heading into Yosemite.

“Because the ash and smoke is so heavy, there’s zero visibility,” said Wayne Barringer, a Cal Fire spokesman.

Flames were as high as 100 feet on Saturday but had dropped Sunday as temperatures cooled and winds calmed, fire officials said. Though the fire continues to expand, its spread has slowed with the improved weather.

A state fire spokeswoman, Karen Guillemin, said the blaze, dubbed the Telegraph Fire, was sparked by someone target shooting but would not elaborate.

About 2,000 firefighters were battling the fire and hundreds more were headed to the scene along the Merced River west of Yosemite, one of the nation’s most visited national parks.

Most of the evacuated homes are in the town of Midpines, on Highway 140 about 12 miles from the park. The southern edge of the fire was as little as two miles from Mariposa, a town of about 1,800 residents, Mr. Berlant said.

The highway, which leads to one of two entrances on the west side of the park, remained open Sunday morning, the California Department of Transportation said. But park officials said visitors traveling that route could face delays caused by firefighters transporting equipment.

To protect firefighters working beneath power lines, electricity was cut to a wide area, including the national park, fire officials said. Some park buildings were closed because of the loss of power, but generators still provided hotels, stores and other heavily used park facilities with electricity, Ms. Chavez said.

Also on Sunday, about 300 people were evacuated from homes, campgrounds and a recreational vehicle park in Ruidoso, N.M., after flooding caused by the remnants of Hurricane Dolly.

Meteorologists said more than six inches of rain fell in the mountainous area, and flash-flood watches were in effect for central and eastern New Mexico.
865 2008-07-28 Bruce Vaughan won the Senior British Open on Sunday for his first career victory, making a 20-foot putt to beat John Cook on the first playoff hole in Troon, Scotland.

Cook squandered a three-stroke lead after 10 holes at Royal Troon but still went to the 72nd hole leading Vaughan by one. Cook sent his tee shot right, into the rough, then played his third shot well short of the green. He decided to putt, but left the ball 15 feet short for a bogey, finishing with a par 71 and a six-under 278 total.

In the playoff, Vaughan pitched to the center of the green and made a 20-foot putt. When Cook missed his putt from 12 feet, Vaughan, a former firefighter from Hutchinson, Kan., won his first tournament on the senior tour or the PGA Tour.

“Money is great, but until you win, you’re just another player,” Vaughan said. “It’s all about winning. You only get a few of these.”

REAVIE WINS CANADIAN OPEN Chez Reavie won the Canadian Open in Oakville, Ontario, closing with a one-under 70 to beat Billy Mayfair by three shots and earn his first PGA Tour title. Anthony Kim began the round a stroke back, but shot 75 to tie for eighth.

ALFREDSSON WINS IN FRANCE Helen Alfredsson won her first L.P.G.A. Tour title in five years, defeating the rookie Na Yeon Choi on the third hole of a playoff at the Evian Masters at Évian-les-Bains, France. Angela Park was eliminated on the first hole of the playoff.
866 2008-07-28 In part, Democratic contentment flows up from the grass roots. In a New York Times/CBS News poll this month, Mr. Obama enjoyed a three-to-one edge in the proportion of voters calling themselves enthusiastic about their party’s presumptive nominee.

But Democratic elected officials have spent much of the last generation trying to contain the exuberance of their liberal base. With pragmatism born of repeated defeat, they have sought to elevate the sorts of presidential candidates who can win, notably white Southern moderates like Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.

Some Southern Democrats, perennially challenged to maintain white support, have declined to endorse Mr. Obama, of Illinois. A few others grumble about lack of consultation with his Chicago-based campaign, and his lingering difficulty in fashioning economic arguments that can garner the working-class support needed to win Midwestern battlegrounds.

More striking, however, is how rare those complaints have been about Mr. Obama. His campaign has largely calmed Democratic political pros with its organizational competence, fund-raising prowess and measured stump performances, including those overseas last week.

Congressional colleagues welcomed his international star turn as a source of reassurance, for Americans generally and for particular constituencies like Jewish voters with misgivings about Mr. Obama. “The antidote for him in the Jewish community will be personal interaction,” Ms. Wasserman Schultz said, but she called his stop in Israel “a big step forward.”

Democrats have grown so buoyant — or overconfident, in Republicans’ analysis — that part of Mr. Obama’s message to the House Democratic Caucus will concern governance in 2009. The candidate will discuss “what we have to do after November comes,” said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the caucus chairman, who consulted with the campaign over the weekend.

Republican lawmakers remain more focused on short-term survival. Mr. McCain’s colleagues on Capitol Hill, disaffected for years by his maverick stances on tax cuts, spending, campaign finance and immigration, have groused about his thin campaign organization and unfocused message.

Team McCain has lately responded with steps to remedy those flaws and improve coordination with fellow Republicans. “Let’s see what he does in August, how does that message get refined,” said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, who is retiring this year.

But some Washington veterans expect only so much clarity from their freewheeling standard-bearer, and see bigger challenges in any case.

“You can’t have tight, tight message control with John McCain,” said former Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, now a lobbyist. “The problem for Republicans is they’re pessimistic, and when you’re pessimistic you don’t work as hard, you don’t turn out the vote.”

Privately, Republican members of Congress recognize the incongruity of Mr. McCain’s ascendance. The very factors that strain their own relationship with him may help both buck the headwinds facing the party at the close of the Bush presidency.

Indeed, they shrug off with a smile Mr. McCain’s efforts to distance himself from Congressional Republicans as well as the unpopular White House incumbent. While House Republican leaders slammed the just-passed housing bill as a big-government bailout, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, backed it as needed support for the mortgage market.

“The best thing he can do for us is to run well,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. “If he’s got a way to do it that involves triangulation, fair enough.”
867 2008-07-28 “We continue to hold talks, and everyone agrees it is in their interest to have this resolved before the contract expires,” said Eric W. Rabe, a spokesman for Verizon.

Verizon already has in place fiber lines — which deliver phone, Internet and television — capable of reaching about 300,000 households. For those, all that is needed is final installation of extra equipment, including set-top boxes. The company expects to install lines to reach 500,000 households by the end of the year.

Nearly every home on Staten Island can now receive Verizon’s phone and Internet services, and come Monday they will be able to add cable television service. Fewer than half of the residents in the other boroughs are capable of getting the service, known as FiOS. In Manhattan, Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town, with about 11,000 apartments, are among the 800 apartment complexes that are already wired.

Crews are expected to begin installing television equipment in homes with access to the company’s fiber network on Wednesday, though many customers will have to wait two weeks or more for an appointment. Crews will work on weekends as well.

Among the neighborhoods Verizon intends to hook up first are: Eastchester, Norwood and Woodlawn in the Bronx; Canarsie, Gravesend and Midwood in Brooklyn; Battery Park City, Chelsea and East Harlem in Manhattan; Bayside, Douglaston and Rosedale in Queens; and Great Kills, St. George and Stapleton on Staten Island.

Verizon has been competing for cable subscribers with Cablevision, Time Warner Cable, Comcast and other providers on Long Island and in Westchester, New Jersey and other areas by offering discounts and extra features, like digital video recorders that let viewers pause shows and resume them on other televisions.

Harriet Novet, a spokeswoman for Time Warner Cable, said, “Verizon has made a lot of announcements and promises, but at this moment, our customers are getting cutting-edge services.”

In New York City, Verizon will offer customers a promotional fee of $94.99 for unlimited local and long-distance phone service, an Internet connection of 20 megabits per second and a television package that includes 54 high-definition channels. Customers must sign a one-year contract.

To keep its customers, Time Warner Cable, the largest cable company in New York, has introduced a range of services that Verizon does not offer, including Start Over, which lets customers watch any show in progress from the beginning.

This week, Cablevision will give digital cable customers an additional 15 high-definition channels, or 60 in all.

“We’ve been competing against satellite providers, RCN and others in New York City for many years, and customers have continued to recognize the value and superiority of Optimum’s TV, voice and high-speed Internet services,” said Jim Maiella, a spokesman for Cablevision.
868 2008-07-28 The democratic election, the country’s fourth since 1993, had a practiced feel, with lines of voters trooping through polling places around the country to slip their ballots into big metal boxes.

At the little schoolhouse in this village surrounded by green rice fields and sugar palms, voters filled the courtyard as soon as the polls opened at 7 a.m., emerging with black ink on their fingertips to show that they had voted.

“I voted for the party I like, but I don’t want to say which one,” said May Buntha, a barber, who charges 50 cents for a haircut in his open-fronted shack by a dirt path through the rice fields here, 45 miles southwest of Phnom Penh, the capital.

“If you look at it closely, life is much better than before,” he said, listing the improvements the government had brought: roads, wells, irrigation, schools and clinics.

“I’ve just bought a new motorcycle, better than the one I had before,” he said.

At a Buddhist temple on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, monks in bright orange robes lined up to vote among the local residents.

Their abbot, Men Chan Punleu, said they were free to vote their consciences. But, he said: “In Cambodia, children follow their parents. If their parents take good care of them, if they make sure they have food and shelter, the children are grateful.”

The casualty in this stable, predictable process is a vibrant, competitive democracy. Mr. Hun Sen’s opponents say they are betting on a rising young generation without memories of past hardships who might push for change in the next election, in five years.

“This election has been much quieter than in the past,” said Ly Rattanak, 26, a junior government official, after casting his vote. “There’s less tension. Things are less challenging, and I love challenges. It looks O.K. It looks calm.

“But it’s not really fair. It’s a one-man show. I believe in having a stronger opposition to challenge the ruling party and shape the way the ruling party performs.”

Criticism of the campaign from the watchdog group Human Rights Watch amounted to an outline of Mr. Hun Sen’s political style: “the near-monopoly on broadcast media for the ruling Cambodian People’s Party (C.P.P.); bias within the electoral apparatus; and harassment, intimidation, and coerced defections of opposition party members.”

Mr. Hun Sen’s chief opponent in the 11-party field, Sam Rainsy, claimed that 200,000 registered voters had been left off the electoral lists in Phnom Penh, where he enjoys some of his strongest support.

“Scrap the election and do it again,” he said, asserting that Mr. Hun Sen’s party was “full of tricks.”

More than 8 million of Cambodia’s 14 million people were eligible to vote. Mr. Hun Sen’s party, which now holds 73 seats, needs only a simple majority to form a government on its own.

Before the passage of a constitutional amendment, a two-thirds majority was needed, and Mr. Hun Sen, who describes himself as a strongman, was nevertheless forced to bargain with other parties to form a government.

On the wall outside the schoolhouse in Chbar Morn, a poster urged voters to resist threats, intimidation and vote buying. A series of illustrations portrayed familiar scenes, each marked out with a large red X.

In the first illustration, a man with a gun addresses villagers, saying, “Everyone has to vote for one party, otherwise there will be problems.” The villagers respond, “Yes, sir.”

In the second, a smiling woman talks to a group of villagers. “Please take this money to help you out in your daily lives,” she says. “But please don’t forget to vote for my party.”

The villagers respond, “Yes, thank you, we won’t forget.”

In the third, a tough-looking man tells the villagers: “Please remember, when election day comes, I’ll know whom you vote for. Think about it.” In one voice, the villagers respond, “Yes, yes, yes, yes.”

There is little doubt that threats, vote buying and intimidation were widespread throughout the country, whether to a greater or lesser extent than before.

But whatever methods were used, legal or illegal, Mr. Hun Sen summarized the situation neatly earlier this year.

“I wish to state it very clearly this way,” he said. “No one can defeat Hun Sen.”
869 2008-07-28 Another way I’ve learned to play faster is by minimizing the number of balls I hit off the tee. If I hit a drive that disappears in the woods, I don’t delay things with a provisional ball. I assume I’ll find the first one. Sometimes, it takes some devoted searching, but it helps if you get all your golfing partners rooting around in the woods, too.

So with all that effort, the average time for my golf rounds has dropped to about five and a half hours. It’s longer than it takes to watch a movie but shorter than a double root canal.

O.K., so I’m kidding (mostly). But we have all played with people who take this kind of time to play golf. It can be excruciating. And there are plenty of habits I did not mention that cause slow play: talking on cellphones, parking carts on the wrong side of greens, not being ready to play when it’s your turn and, perhaps worst of all, playing from the back tees even when they are beyond your ability.

There are a lot of theories, and people like to blame the PGA Tour, whose players on average are the slowest and the most emulated. PGA Tour players could certainly play faster, but at least they are playing for big purses and can make minute adjustments in their swing after much thought. Average golfers would almost all play better if they pondered less and played faster.

There are no easy answers, although most everyone agrees that American golfers could do a few things better:

¶Shorten your preshot routine. Yes, it relaxes you; it’s driving the rest of us crazy.

¶Assess your shot as others are assessing theirs. You can calculate the distance, pick a club, take a practice swing and then be ready to go within 10 seconds after your partner’s shot.

¶Leave your cellphone in your car.

¶Start reading your putt as soon as you reach the green. Don’t wait until it’s your turn to putt.

¶After hitting your shot, don’t be afraid to hustle to where your partner has driven the cart for his shot. Driving the cart back and forth to pick up players adds time.

¶Don’t mark a lagged putt. Go ahead and putt out if it’s relatively short.

¶Watch your partners’ tee shots. It will help them find the wayward ones and keep the rest of the group on time.

¶Leave your other cellphone in your car.

There are experts on the pace of play in golf, and the United States Golf Association, and others, have expended considerable time examining the problem. Interestingly, several of these experts do not exclusively blame golfers for slow play.

“Slow golfers are only half the equation when it comes to slow play,” said Bill Yates, the founder of Pace Manager Systems, a California company that has consulted with hundreds of golf courses. “The other half is the management of the golf course.”

The No. 1 thing those running golf courses can do, Yates said, is space out tee times so the course won’t be overcrowded. People often end up waiting not because golfers are playing slowly, but for the same reason traffic bogs down at rush hour. The golf courses can’t handle the increased flow.

Golf course owners may say that they make more money by having more golfers tee off more often, but Yates countered that an overburdened course keeps players waiting — and leaving unhappy.

“It’s better business to provide a smooth experience around the golf course,” Yates said.

Yates’s advice can become far more complicated. For example, he says that blind landing areas and high rough on the inside of a dogleg are documented pace-of-play killers because they lead to waves of golfers looking for errant shots. Also, modern ball and club technology have led to longer golf courses, and longer holes take longer to play. Then again, G.P.S. systems installed in carts tend to help.

“There have been many successful attempts to significantly speed play at hundreds of courses,” Yates said. “I wouldn’t give up yet.”

I’m not giving up. I’m cutting myself down to one waggle. And I locked your cellphone in my car.
870 2008-07-28 Big publishers try to sell Web site advertising space through their sales forces at high prices. Most cannot sell all their inventory, so they send the leftover, or “remnant,” space to an ad network or to an ad exchange. These deliver an ad, but at lower prices than the publishers’ sales forces fetch — usually around $1 per thousand impressions, versus the $20 and up that top sites’ sales forces ask for.

Ad networks and ad exchanges are both in the business of selling remnant inventory, but they do it in slightly different ways. The networks, which function as middlemen, sell chunks of inventory through their sales forces, which can simplify the buying process for advertisers.

Exchanges, on the other hand, let advertisers buy ads directly, and place them one by one. Because there are usually lower fees, buying off exchanges tends to be cheaper — though more labor-intensive — than buying through networks.

In 2007, exchanges sold about 15 percent of the remnant inventory, and about 5 percent of online display advertising overall, according to ThinkPanmure, a research and financial services company. Most of the other 85 percent was sold through networks.

The major appeal of exchanges is that with some analysis, advertisers can buy ads one by one, and track the performance of each ad. This contrasts with ad networks, which roll up broad audiences for advertisers (often using the exchanges) through their own sales forces.

Ad exchanges have gotten a few big boosts lately. In 2007, three major portals announced they were buying exchanges. Yahoo bought the Right Media exchange for $650 million; Google announced it was buying DoubleClick in April, which had announced weeks earlier it was setting up what is now called the DoubleClick Advertising Exchange, for $3.1 billion; and Microsoft acquired the exchange AdECN.

Last month, the advertising holding company Publicis Groupe said it would start working with DoubleClick and Right Media’s exchange to buy advertisements. The advertising companies Havas Digital and WPP have announced similar deals with Right Media in recent months.

But it is not so much the exchanges themselves that is interesting the advertising world — it is what can be done with them.

“The exchanges are just a platform to buy and sell media, but you have to layer the measurement and data on top, which could come from different areas: some agencies will build it, some agencies will partner,” said Darren Herman, head of digital media at the Media Kitchen agency.

“We use the analogy of, anybody can trade on the financial markets, anyone can get an eTrade account, but it’s how you’re smart about how you use your eTrade account that determines how well you’re going to do trading,” Mr. Herman said.

With some Wall Street-like analysis, advertisers can find individual Web surfers, figure out how much to pay to show them an ad, and analyze how those ads have performed. Firms like Mr. Zawadzki’s are analyzing which of those users might be attractive, then tracking whether people click on the ads they see. If an advertiser wanted to reach a very specific group — say, people in Atlanta who have already visited its home page — it might bid more to get that audience.

The growth of exchanges has a clear benefit to advertisers, allowing them to test multiple ads quickly with specific groups, potentially minimizing expensive campaign testing and focus-group work.

The exchanges may benefit publishers, at least short term. Most exchanges take a lower cut of ad sales than ad networks, the other option for unsold ad space, because exchanges have lower costs and no big sales forces.

And some exchanges offer additional leverage for publishers: on the exchange Adsdaq, publishers are able to set minimum prices for their inventories. (If a price is not met, the inventory is kicked to a second-choice network.) Two other exchanges, Traffiq and AdBidCentral, serve as rudimentary futures markets, letting publishers sell ad space several months in advance.

“Once there’s a market place where you can buy and sell using your own technology, you can absolutely create financial instruments or media instruments,” said Zachary Weinberg, the chief executive of Invite Media, a start- up in Philadelphia that is working on ad-exchange strategies. “I think what you’ll see is traders come in, and they’ll look to create derivatives on certain packages of media, and resell them to other guys. You’ll see a whole marketplace develop because of this technology shift.”

The auction-based pricing should, theoretically at least, set fair market prices.

“I think the exchange is really good at creating a market-based pricing dynamic,” said Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst at Forrester Research. “They’ll not necessarily guarantee higher pricing for the publisher if the publisher doesn’t provide any value. So I think the exchange will work just like we see a stock exchange work, where the inventory that is of great value will definitely go up in price because of market demands for that inventory.”

Long term, it may be a different story for publishers. If the exchanges grow, and advertisers figure out how to find their target audiences wherever they are on the Web — rather than going through a Web site focusing on motherhood or autos — they may not need to pay the high prices that publishers are asking for.

Of course, an exchange needs supply and demand to work, and the exchanges are not huge now. The largest exchange, Right Media, based in New York, says it handles about six billion transactions a day. This sounds large, but that six billion is the total number of transactions — that is, the number of interactions between the buyer and the seller — rather than the ad impressions it is serving, a much lower number. And MySpace alone showed an average of 1.7 billion ads a day just to United States viewers in April, according to comScore Ad Metrix.

“It’s still very early in the development of these exchanges and marketplaces, but there’s no doubt that they are here to stay and I think they will continue to get more influence in the marketplace and will continue to evolve,” said William Morrison, an analyst with ThinkPanmure.
871 2008-07-28 Re “A Product’s Place Is on the Set,” by Stephanie Clifford (Advertising column, July 22):

A precedent exists for TV news shows to alert unsuspecting viewers when they might be misled by the seemingly innocuous placement of branded products.

In the late stages of the Vietnam War, network television news shows in the United States were pressured into superimposing “File Footage” when they showed battle scenes or footage shot earlier in the war.

In view of the deteriorating viewership of television news programs, stations and networks should embrace the use of disclosure and any other opportunity they can find to maintain a relationship of trust and credibility with the American people. Eugene Secunda

The writer is an adjunct professor of media studies at New York University.
872 2008-07-28 Certainly the institute’s mission is in keeping with Mr. McCain’s full-throated support for exporting American democratic values. Yet the institute is also something of a revolving door for lobbyists and out-of-power Republicans that offers big donors a way of helping both the party and the institute’s chairman, who is the second sitting member of Congress — and now candidate for president — ever to head one of the democracy groups.

Operating without the sort of limits placed on campaign fund-raising, the institute under Mr. McCain has solicited millions of dollars for its operations from some 560 defense contractors, lobbying firms, oil companies and other corporations, many with issues before Senate committees Mr. McCain was on.

Recently, he has drawn criticism for involving lobbyists in his presidential campaign; under Mr. McCain, 14 of them have served on the institute’s board, some representing governments or organizations in countries where the group was carrying out programs.

These are sensitive issues for Mr. McCain, who as a champion of campaign finance and lobbying reforms has made a point of eschewing unlimited “soft money” contributions to his political committees. During his Senate investigation of the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, Mr. McCain highlighted the risks of business interests’ use of donations to nonprofit organizations as another way to gain access to a member of Congress.

Beyond rubbing shoulders with contributors, Mr. McCain could use the chairman’s perch to score points with important Republican figures — he presented Freedom Awards to President Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and, in 2003, the incoming Senate majority leader, Bill Frist. At least seven board members have been involved in his presidential campaign, along with the institute’s president, Lorne W. Craner, a former Senate aide whose father was in the same Hanoi prison as Mr. McCain.

Mr. McCain declined to be interviewed for this article. Brian Rogers, a campaign spokesman, said the senator “has never requested nor offered to take a position on legislation in exchange for, or because of, contributions to I.R.I.” He added that Mr. McCain was “proud of I.R.I.’s work in countries from Peru to Serbia to Mongolia.”

“In traveling overseas,” Mr. Rogers said, “Senator McCain has repeatedly been complimented on I.R.I.’s work by prime ministers and presidents, U.S. ambassadors and ordinary citizens. Many have told him that freedom in their country would not have been possible without I.R.I.’s work.”

The institute’s work in some of those countries resonates with important ethnic voting blocs at home.

When Mr. McCain’s Democratic rival for president, Senator Barack Obama, traveled to Miami in May to address Cuban-Americans, Republicans circulated a memorandum to reporters that quoted an anti-Castro group criticizing Mr. Obama’s willingness to talk to Cuba’s communist leaders. Not mentioned was that the group, the Cuban Democratic Directorate, was financed for years by the International Republican Institute — it got more than $8 million during Mr. McCain’s tenure. Though the directorate does not endorse candidates, its leaders are effusive in praising Mr. McCain.

“I want to stress that we are very thankful to Senator McCain for everything he has done through I.R.I. to support our cause,” said Janisset Rivero, joint national secretary of the directorate.

Shaken by the loss of the White House in 1992, Republicans scrambled to reinvigorate their party by giving higher profiles to some of its promising prospects. Mr. McCain, just re-elected by a convincing margin, was given two new positions: head of fund-raising and recruiting for the Senate Republicans and chairman of the International Republican Institute.

Enlisting Mr. McCain, with his no-nonsense image, was a way to impose some much-needed discipline at the institute. Party leaders had been hearing disturbing tales of mismanagement and questionable expenditures, such as Concorde flights for staff members and bottles of wine with a private I.R.I. label.

Mr. McCain quickly put his stamp on the organization after taking over in January 1993. Within months, the board fired the institute’s president, Jack W. Buechner, a former Republican congressman from Missouri, and Mr. McCain announced plans to shift much of the institute’s focus from Latin America to the former Soviet bloc.

In an interview, Mr. Buechner characterized his dismissal as “less than gracious,” saying Mr. McCain did not call beforehand to discuss it. He attributed his ouster, in part, to a reluctance to give jobs and appointments to Republicans left adrift by the transition to a Democratic administration.

“The theory before I came aboard at the institute was you needed to reward the party faithful,” Mr. Buechner said. “The attitude was that I.R.I. was supposed to be a repository for unemployed Bushies.”

Mr. Buechner’s assertions reflected criticism that has dogged the institute and its Democratic counterpart since their creation. While Mr. McCain was an early supporter, other members of Congress believed the groups were essentially partisan pork barrels. Former Senator Hank Brown, a Colorado Republican who tried several times to kill federal financing for the institutes, still harbors doubts about them.

“I know John’s interest in it was very sincere, and he put a lot of time into promoting democracy himself,” Mr. Brown said. “But the reality is that politicians and well-heeled business leaders taking free trips abroad doesn’t bring democracy.”

Today, with a budget of about $78 million and 400 employees working in 70 countries, the Republican institute has grown in size and stature. Its recent work has included organizing debates for candidates in Iraq, conducting a rare public opinion poll in Cuba and training political parties in Belarus.

Yet while the institute says its activities are nonpartisan and peaceful, left-leaning groups have long accused it of improper meddling in pursuit of a neoconservative agenda. A former American ambassador to Haiti has asserted that institute operatives undermined reconciliation efforts among Haitian political rivals, contributing to a coup in 2004. Two years earlier, the institute was criticized after its president at the time, George A. Folsom, praised a coup attempt against Venezuela’s leftist president, Hugo Chávez.

Major staffing decisions and appointments are a board matter; as chairman, Mr. McCain has played a significant, often decisive, role. His early choices show an attempt to balance the demands of politics, professionalism and personal loyalty. Bucking party officials, Mr. McCain successfully pushed for R. Bruce McColm, a human rights expert who was not an active Republican, to replace Mr. Buechner. John Dowd, the senator’s personal lawyer in the Keating Five scandal during the savings-and-loan crisis, became the institute’s general counsel, and Mr. Craner became vice president.

In his autobiography, Mr. McCain wrote of his deep debt to Mr. Craner’s father, Lt. Col. Robert R. Craner, for his help in surviving imprisonment in North Vietnam, and when he was elected to the Senate in 1986, Mr. McCain hired the younger Mr. Craner as his legislative assistant. Before joining the institute, Mr. Craner also worked at the State Department and the National Security Council.

While Mr. McColm’s arrival seemed a departure from past partisan practices, he was gone within two years. (He did not respond to messages seeking comment for this article.) Former institute directors said Mr. McCain simply sent them a fax asking for approval to elevate Mr. Craner to the top job, which he has held since, except for three years at the Bush State Department.

Mr. McCain was also becoming increasingly involved in the institute’s finances. Arguing that the organization should wean itself from taxpayer dollars — its prime source of financing — he set about greatly expanding fund-raising from the private sector. That initiative was in line with the institute’s goal of bringing the business community into efforts to spread democracy — and an environment conducive to capitalism — around the world.

Typical of his efforts was a May 1995 letter to an executive at Philip Morris asking for help in underwriting the institute’s Freedom Awards. The company agreed to give $25,000.

By the time Mr. McCain began his unsuccessful run for president in 2000, his time spent tending to the institute was yielding political dividends.

Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former ambassador to the United Nations and an institute board member, endorsed him, saying that working “under his leadership in the I.R.I.” had convinced her of his foreign policy credentials. A number of major institute donors were also campaign contributors, and some institute directors volunteered as fund-raisers.

That synergy reflects the ways in which the boundaries between the institute and Mr. McCain’s political activities and foreign policies have blurred over the years. If anything, the overlaps seem more pronounced in his latest quest for the presidency, and they involve institute board members associated with his campaign and donors with interests before the Senate. Mr. Madigan, the institute’s vice chairman and a McCain fund-raiser, represented the government of El Salvador in 2004, when the institute was monitoring presidential elections there. Mr. Madigan’s firm has represented six foreign governments and sometimes lobbied Mr. McCain’s Senate office.

Among those clients is the government of Colombia, which has paid the firm at least $590,000 over the last 18 months. One issue Mr. Madigan has been pushing on behalf of the Colombians is a pending free trade agreement with the United States. Several weeks ago, Mr. McCain traveled to Colombia and, in keeping with his views on trade, spoke about the need for the accord.

Another board member is the McCain campaign’s chief foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann. Until March, he was registered as a lobbyist for several foreign governments, and he represented the government of Georgia last January when the institute sent election monitors there. Since joining the institute in 2004, Mr. Scheunemann has spoken with Mr. McCain or his Senate aides at least 42 times on behalf of his foreign lobbying clients, Justice Department records show.

Mr. Madigan did not respond to messages seeking comment. Mr. Scheunemann’s lobbying business, Orion Strategies, referred questions to the McCain campaign, which declined to make Mr. Scheunemann available.

In its responses to written questions, the campaign said that the presence of lobbyists on the institute’s board did not pose a conflict, and that Mr. Madigan and Mr. Scheunemann “recused themselves from I.R.I. decisions regarding the countries they represented.” The campaign also said donations to the institute had never been linked to Mr. McCain’s Senate activities.

But at least one donor apparently saw it differently — Philip Morris stopped giving to the institute after Mr. McCain began urging stronger tobacco regulation — and many had an interest in issues before Congress. For example, CTIA — the Wireless Association, a national lobbying group representing the cellphone industry, has been a consistent donor to the institute and often had an interest in legislation Mr. McCain sponsored or shaped.

In 2003, when Mr. McCain’s Commerce Committee was considering legislation to regulate e-mail spam, wireless companies were worried that it could cause problems if applied to spam text messages received on cellphones. CTIA sent an update to its members noting that Mr. McCain had “raised the wireless-specific issues and pledged to work to resolve them,” and he eventually co-sponsored an amendment instructing regulators to study how best to apply the new rules to cellular devices.

By the time AT&T financed the 2006 institute awards dinner, Mr. McCain was no longer the committee’s chairman, but the firm’s merger with BellSouth, pending before the Federal Communications Commission, was of major interest in Congress, which has significant sway over the F.C.C. Mr. McCain rarely opposed telecommunications mergers, but he had raised questions about a previous AT&T merger, with MediaOne, during the 2000 presidential campaign and pledged to hold hearings on telecom industry consolidation. In 2006, however, Mr. McCain remained silent on the AT&T-BellSouth deal, which was eventually approved by the F.C.C.

Mr. Rogers, the campaign spokesman, said that Mr. McCain’s silence was in keeping with his practice of not commenting on mergers, and that his remarks about the earlier AT&T proposal were intended as a broad criticism of telecom legislation and not that merger. On the subject of CTIA, as Mr. Rogers pointed out, the group has opposed Mr. McCain on some legislation, and the senator’s amendment to the spam bill reflected a compromise after he had objected to a more sweeping exemption sought by CTIA.

“Any suggestion that CTIA’s donations to I.R.I. were somehow offered (and accepted) in exchange for Senator McCain’s work on the Senate Commerce Committee is categorically false and baseless,” Mr. Rogers said.
873 2008-07-28 Mr. McCain also spoke in favor of a state ballot measure that would end race- and sex-based affirmative action in his home state of Arizona.

In 1998, Mr. McCain dismissed a similar measure. Mr. Obama said on Sunday that he supported affirmative action “when properly structured” to take into account not only race but also economic hardship.

Mr. Obama, speaking on Sunday in Chicago at the Unity ’08 Convention, a gathering of minority journalists, said he was disappointed in Mr. McCain’s position on the affirmative action measure. Mr. Obama mixed foreign policy analysis with his views on immigration and whether the United States should offer reparations and apologize for slavery and its treatment of American Indians.

“There’s no doubt that when it comes to our treatment of Native Americans as well as other persons of color in this country,” Mr. Obama said, “we’ve got some very sad and difficult things to account for.”

“The best reparations we can provide,” he said, “are good schools in the inner city and jobs for people who are unemployed.”

On Sunday evening Mr. Obama was at the University of Chicago Medical Center because of a sore hip that a spokesman, Bill Burton, described as a nagging basketball injury.

Mr. McCain’s annoyance with the international coverage of Mr. Obama mounted steadily last week. He accused the news media of showing favoritism toward Mr. Obama. Over the last two days, his campaign has strongly implied that Mr. Obama declined to meet with wounded American troops at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany after he learned that he could not bring television cameras along.

“I know of no Pentagon regulation that would have prevented him from going there, without the media and the press and all of the associated people,” Mr. McCain said in the ABC interview.

Mr. Obama, who visited wounded troops in Iraq without notifying the news media, and has visited injured soldiers in the United States, said he was not traveling with an official delegation and did not want to politicize the visit.

Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who accompanied Mr. Obama to Iraq, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that Mr. McCain was “treading on some very thin ground when he impugns motives, and when we start to get into ‘you’re less patriotic than me, I’m more patriotic.’ ”
874 2008-07-28 Mr. Obama sharply rejected the notion, saying he was acting based on Pentagon rules limiting visits deemed as political.

“Those troops would have loved to see him, and I know of no Pentagon regulation that would’ve prevented him from going there” without the news media, Mr. McCain said on the ABC News program “This Week” in a taped interview. Had the Pentagon tried to stop him from making such a visit, Mr. McCain added, “I guarantee you, there would’ve been a seismic event.”

The McCain campaign quickly produced and aired an advertisement built around the incident. “And now, he made time to go to the gym, but canceled a visit with wounded troops,” an announcer says. “Seems the Pentagon wouldn’t allow him to bring cameras. John McCain is always there for our troops.”

Mr. Obama did visit wounded troops in Iraq, without telling the news media, and has done so in the United States. On Sunday, an Obama surrogate, Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who accompanied the candidate on his foreign trip, said on the CBS News program “Face the Nation” that the new McCain ad was a “completely distorted and, I think, inappropriate advertisement.”

Mr. Obama defended his decision to forgo the visit to see injured troops — a decision that caused a mini-firestorm among conservative political bloggers and commentators.

“It was scheduled, we intended to go and we got wind that there was some concern that this might be perceived as political — because we were using campaign resources,” Mr. Obama told Fox News on Saturday. “And at that point, the last thing I wanted to do is to in any way distract the terrific work that’s being done in terms of treating our troops, by getting it fouled up by a bunch of politics.”

Mr. McCain took aim at Mr. Obama’s entire trip, referring on Saturday to “all the breathless coverage from abroad” and suggesting that Americans might be feeling “a little left out.”

Mr. Obama, speaking to reporters on Saturday in London after meeting with Prime Minister Gordon Brown, dismissed the criticism. He noted that Mr. McCain had also taken foreign trips since clinching the Republican nomination.

“It is hard for me to understand Senator McCain’s argument,” Mr. Obama said. “He was telling me I was supposed to take this trip. He suggested it and thought it was a good idea.”

In his taped interview with ABC that was broadcast on Sunday, Mr. McCain batted down some confusion over a remark he had made that seemed to accept the notion of a timetable for withdrawal from Iraq.

“Anything is a good timetable that is dictated by the conditions on the ground,” he said, denying that he would agree to a fixed date for withdrawal.

“Senator Obama doesn’t understand — he doesn’t understand what’s at stake here,” he said, “and he chose to take a political path.”

In an interview with the NBC News program “Meet the Press” that was taped in London on Saturday and broadcast Sunday, Mr. Obama acknowledged that some Americans might see his trip as a distraction from serious domestic issues. He predicted a possible dip in his poll ratings and he underscored his renewed focus on the economy on Monday, when he will consult with advisers including Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman; Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary; Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, and Lawrence H. Summers, another former Treasury secretary.

But a daily Gallup tracking poll showed Mr. Obama’s lead had widened from three percentage points at the beginning of his trip to a more statistically significant nine points. The “rolling” poll was conducted from July 24 to 26, meaning it might reflect reaction to the huge crowd — estimated at 200,000 by the German police — that turned out to see him in Berlin on Thursday.

Mr. Obama told NBC that the European leaders he met — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Mr. Brown of Britain — all had assured him that they hoped to do more to improve matters in Afghanistan, where the number of American deaths has recently surpassed those in Iraq. His message to them, he said, was, “We need your help, we need your cooperation.”

In Chicago on Sunday, at the Unity convention of minority journalists, Mr. Obama said his views on withdrawing from Iraq had not changed. He also said he would give top priority to seeking a solution to Israeli-Palestinian hostilities. “The world is waiting for America to re-engage in the Middle East,” he said.
875 2008-07-28 SAN FRANCISCO — The thud of the morning newspaper landing on front porches may one day be replaced with the beep of downloads onto a cellphone.

Verve Wireless believes it can save the dying local newspaper by making it mobile. It offers publishers the technology to create Web sites for cellphones. The company, based in Encinitas, Calif., already provides mobile versions of 4,000 newspapers from 140 publishers, including Freedom Communications, the McClatchy Company and The New York Times Company’s Regional Media Group. The Associated Press, its biggest customer, is betting that Verve has the solution to the nagging problem of dwindling print readership. It led a $3 million round of financing in Verve, a rare investment for the news organization.

People are increasingly using their phones to surf the Web. Of the 95 million mobile Internet subscribers in the United States, 40 million actively use their phones to go online, twice the number of two years ago, according to Nielsen Mobile. After portal sites and e-mail services, newspaper content — weather, news, politics, city guides, sports and entertainment — is most popular among mobile users.

Verve’s chief executive, Art Howe, says he is convinced that people will always want local news and information — just not in the format of a print newspaper. But to be useful to readers, mobile versions of Web sites “cannot just be Internet lite,” Mr. Howe warned. The A.P. recently released a popular iPhone application developed by Verve that lets users scan the day’s headlines, send articles to friends and save articles to read later.

“Mobile is actually a better way to reach people than print or even Web. It’s versatile, immediate, travels and is just as compelling,” said Mr. Howe, a Pulitzer Prize-winning former reporter and former owner of 50 local papers.
876 2008-07-28 WEISS--Leonard A. ''Lenny''. Brother of Muriel, beloved father of Jeff, Bill and Richard, father-in-law of Robin and Tammie, grandfather of Bari, Richard and Perri, companion of Inky. Leonard practiced law in Mount Vernon New York since 1953, orig...
877 2008-07-28 Microsoft Opens Xbox to More Games      Openness has reached that most closed of devices: the video game console. Microsoft is now creating a method for almost anyone to write and sell games for its Xbox 360 machines, below....
878 2008-07-28 WEISS--Leonard A. ''Lenny''. Brother of Muriel, beloved father of Jeff, Bill and Richard, father-in-law of Robin and Tammie, grandfather of Bari, Richard and Perri, companion of Inky. Leonard practiced law in Mount Vernon New York since 1953, orig...
879 2008-07-28 PUBLIC OFFER, PRIVATE EQUITY The private equity investor Kohlberg Kravis Roberts moves ahead with its long-planned and long-awaited public offering of stock.      AN UNKNOWN MEDIA MOGUL Vivi Nevo, an Israeli who took a modest inheritance from his ...
880 2008-07-29 NEWPORT, R.I. - The 24 members of the news media who voted in the league's preseason media poll agreed on one thing - Syracuse will be the worst team in the Big East in 2008. All 24 of them voted the Orange last, the latest in a flurry of signs th...
881 2008-07-29 Tests performed on a section of the Republican candidate's skin showed no evidence of malignancy, the clinic said....
882 2008-07-29 Who will fill the No. 2 spot on both presidential tickets is one of the most talked about questions in the weeks before the party conventions begin in August....
883 2008-07-29 Shortly after awarding the 2008 Olympic Games to China, the International Olympic Committee predicted that the event would improve human rights there. But a report released by Amnesty International in Hong Kong indicated that progress had been limited. It chronicled beatings and arbitrary detentions of human rights activists in mainland China. The only improvement has been in restrictions on the death penalty, Amnesty International said, while China’s record in other areas, like detentions without trial, has deteriorated.
884 2008-07-29 While some clown routines are scripted — wander on stage, slip on banana peel, fall down — most are developed through improvisation. Physical humor, involving one’s own or another’s body parts, is the hallmark of clowning. And that was the main roadblock Ms. Cornell kept facing, in one professional workshop after another.

“It becomes sexual for the men,” Ms. Cornell said. “I remember coming to the center of the circle, I started to dance and some guy says, ‘Take it off!’ And I said, ‘How can I work like this?’ ”

Ms. Cornell’s work depends on an all-female environment to transform the taboo into the funny, the sexual into the silly. “Oh, for a world where dropping your drawers meant comedy, not promiscuity!” she wrote on her Web site, www.notjustforshockvalue.com. The troupe draws a sophisticated audience, more the theatergoing type than the slapstick Barnum & Bailey fan.

“It’s not the ‘be dump bump’ here’s the laugh,” Ms. Cornell said, referring to standard rimshot humor. When people come to the show, “they have to rediscover their relationship to what’s funny.”

A lot of rediscovery happens around women’s bodies. The group has developed full vignettes that rely on breasts as punch lines. It turns out, for all the fanfare they get in car ads and movies, that breasts are pretty funny.

On a recent afternoon, the troupe rehearsed a scene called “Funeral” from its show “Clown Axioms: a gory, romantic tale,” which begins a three-day stint on Thursday at the Manhattan Children’s Theater in TriBeCa.

Ms. Lewis Ockler stands in her Victorian-Goth get-up opposite Julie Plumettaz in a flowing gold-embroidered frock. They carry an imaginary coffin, toddler size, to the edge of an imaginary cliff. They sing, they wail, they cry. They throw the casket over the ledge, and they cross themselves. Then again. Their arms accelerate as they touch their shoulders, chest, ears, clown noses, shoulders, turning the Catholic ritual into a Madonna vogue as performed by a third-base coach.

At last, their hands land gracefully on their breasts, which they proceed to aim over the cliff, and squirt. Right, left.

“In that scene, there is actually milk coming out of my body,” said Ms. Lewis Ockler, who gave birth to a daughter six months ago. When the troupe developed this scene, she said, there were three postpartum clowns who often pumped breast milk during rehearsal. It was impossible for them not to make fun in some way. But it also was a challenge to turn a dark situation, the death of a baby, into dark humor.

“It’s something you fear,” Ms. Lewis Ockler said. “But you have to expose painful fears to find the truth. Then put an absurd paradox in it. When you play in these places of truthfulness, it’s therapeutic.”

Such scenes would never see the light of the stage if the women had tried to develop them in a mixed-gender group, said Ishah Janssen-Faith, a member of the troupe. In improv circles, the humor that flows is organic. Clowns draw on their own experiences, sometimes from the embarrassing or vulgar, most often from the subconscious, to find the absurd. Too often, Ms. Janssen-Faith said, when she draws on a personal experience, a male partner doesn’t understand.

“They get the deer-in-headlights look instead of going with it,” she said. “They make it look like the woman is crazy and step away, because it makes them look funny.”

It happened enough that Ms. Janssen-Faith avoided taking comedic risks in mixed groups, letting herself fall into typecast roles: the magician’s assistant, the doctor’s nurse, the man’s wife. The women in this troupe, for whom clowning ranges from weekend hobby to career, create an environment where they can explore themes they haven’t been able to elsewhere.

“I feel 10 times more free to be funny in the way that I’m funny,” Ms. Janssen-Faith said.

At rehearsal, Ms. Cornell calls for the next scene. “O.K., ‘Cinderella!’ ” she says.

Virginia Venk, wearing a long gold skirt and a cascading brunette hair extension, walks onstage barefoot. She waves a blue and green beaded slipper at the audience, currently played by her troupemates.

Cinderella selects one confused spectator, Amanda Barron, red pigtails peeking out from under a hot pink pompom hat.

“Shoe and me?” Ms. Venk says. She points the slipper at her foot. Ms. Barron catches on and stands up. “Shoe and me!” Ms. Venk says, jumping up and down.

She thrusts the shoe in Ms. Barron’s hand, then thrusts her leg into Ms. Barron’s arms. Ms. Barron bends over to put the shoe on Cinderella’s foot.

Ms. Venk releases her new assistant and hobbles across the stage, her heel hanging two inches over the edge of the slipper.

Several more attempts at finding the right fit prove unfruitful.

Ms. Venk sulks upstage and thumps to the floor, her back to the audience. She turns around, a bright idea in her eyes, holding up a long kitchen knife.

Unsuccessful. She turns around to the audience again, another bright idea, and holds up a cleaver. CHOP.

The self-mutilation proves useless. Cinderella is unable to fit into the dainty slipper and she limps off stage.

Working on the scene has given Ms. Venk an opportunity to overlay some bad childhood memories with humor.

“Going to the shoe store was one of the most traumatic experiences because I had big feet,” Ms. Venk said. “When you can laugh at yourself, you become more whole.”
885 2008-07-29 CHICAGO— The Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, the chewing gum maker that is being acquired by Mars Inc., posted better-than-expected profit as higher prices, improved margins and a weak dollar helped increase sales.

The company, based in Chicago, said Monday that net income for the second quarter rose to $193.8 million, or 70 cents a share, compared with $169.8 million, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier.

Excluding one-time charges related to the proposed merger with Mars, Wrigley said profit was 74 cents a share. Analysts on average forecast earnings of 68 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.

Second-quarter revenue rose 14 percent, to $1.57 billion, from $1.38 billion a year ago, with the currency benefit accounting for more than half of the increase, Wrigley said.

Wrigley, the maker of Big Red and Eclipse chewing gum and Altoids mints, is being bought by Mars, the maker of M&M candies, in a $23 billion deal to create the world’s largest confectionary company.

The deal, which was announced in April and is worth $80 a share, could close as early as the fall. It was given the go-ahead from the European Commission on Monday.
886 2008-07-29 Nickelodeon, the premier cable channel for children, is so old that many of its original viewers have children of their own. The 29-year-old network is now trying to produce programs that the first generation of “Nickelodeon parents” can watch with their children.

Nick at Nite, the network’s prime time and overnight block of programs for adults, has gradually replaced nostalgic shows like “I Love Lucy” with programs like “The George Lopez Show,” which ended its original run a year ago.

In a television environment where hits are hard to develop, the current-classic programming is working: Nick at Nite, which runs from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. most nights (it starts at 10 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays), has rebounded from ratings declines. In the last year, the time period has gained about 400,000 viewers, making Nick at Nite the fifth-most-popular channel in prime time in the second quarter, up from ninth place during the comparable period last year.

In the next year, the network will start to look even more contemporary. On Tuesday the network, a unit of Viacom, plans to announce an acquisition from the production company of Michael D. Eisner, the former chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, that will represent a push into original programming. The show, “Glenn Martin D.D.S.,” an animated program about a dentist who takes his family on a cross-country adventure, is one of several new ones developed by the network.

“It’s a chance to connect to the second generation of Nick viewers,” said Cyma Zarghami, the president of the MTV Networks’ Nickelodeon Kids and Family group. A round of network research this year estimated that 39 percent of parents watched Nickelodeon when they were growing up.

Nick at Nite’s move toward original programming mirrors that of many cable channels that have introduced flagship shows — mainly dramas — in recent years. Originals are more expensive than reruns, but they also make the networks more distinct and appealing to advertisers. And, in an era of DVD box sets and Internet television streams, classics may not stand out as much as they once did.
887 2008-07-29 Michael Berniker, a prolific record producer whose diverse projects won nine Grammy Awards over four decades, died on Friday in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 73.

The cause was complications from kidney disease, said his wife, Heather.

Best known for producing the first three Barbra Streisand albums on Columbia as well as numerous Broadway cast albums, Mr. Berniker also produced Latin jazz, spoken word, comedy and classical records.

Other pop artists he produced included Eydie Gorme, Johnny Mathis and Perry Como. Ben Webster, Charlie Rouse and Paquito D’Rivera were among the jazz musicians he produced. “Irakere,” his recording of the Cuban fusion band of the same name (produced with Bert DeCoteaux), won a 1979 Grammy for best Latin recording.

His Broadway show albums included original-cast recordings of five musicals — “Barnum,” “City of Angels,” a revival of “Sweet Charity,” “The Will Rogers Follies” and “The Life” — all with music by Cy Coleman. “The Will Rogers Follies” won a 1991 Grammy for best musical show album. Other cast albums included “My One and Only” and “Side Show.”

Born in Brooklyn on June 30, 1935, Mr. Berniker studied music and philosophy at Columbia, then served in the Army for two years at Fort Bliss, in El Paso, where he had a local radio program and organized a jazz festival. In 1960, he enrolled in an in-house A&R (artists and repertory) training program at CBS Records. One of his first projects was a jazz series on Epic.

Mr. Berniker had a special creative empathy with pop divas. The songs on the Streisand albums, the first of which won a Grammy for album of the year in 1963, were impeccably chosen to illustrate the breadth of her talent, and their arrangements, by Peter Matz, demonstrated an artistic rapport between singer and arranger comparable to that of Frank Sinatra and Nelson Riddle. These albums stand among the most expressively uninhibited of Ms. Streisand’s career.
888 2008-07-29 BAKERSFIELD, Calif. — Senator John McCain said on Monday that his dermatologist had removed a spot from his right cheek, and that while it did not appear to be serious, she would perform a biopsy “just to make sure everything is fine.”

Mr. McCain, 71, who has had four melanomas, a potentially fatal form of skin cancer, said the spot had been removed Monday morning in Arizona during one of the checkups he has every three months with his dermatologist.

“She said that I was doing fine, took a small little nick from my cheek, as she does regularly, and that will be biopsied just to make sure that everything is fine,” Mr. McCain said in Bakersfield as he toured oil pumps to talk about his energy policies.

In the morning, Mr. McCain had a small bandage on his upper right cheek, near his temple, but he had removed it by the afternoon, revealing a dark area about the size of a bug bite. The left side of his face remains puffy and scarred as a result of surgery he had in 2000 to remove the cancer and lymph nodes.

As he spoke about the procedure on Monday, Mr. McCain offered a public-service-type announcement.

“But I want to again urge all Americans to wear sunscreen, particularly this summer, stay out of the sun as much as possible, wear sunscreen, and if you ever have any slight discoloration, please go to your dermatologist or your doctor and get it checked up on,” Mr. McCain said, wearing a blue Navy cap against the California sun.

“Melanoma is a preventable occurrence,” he said. “But remember, a lot of the damage that people see from the sun when they’re young sometimes comes back later in life. And that’s the end of my lecture from the American Dermatology Association today. ”

Asked if his doctor was confident it was nothing major, Mr. McCain said, “Sure, absolutely.”

Later in the day, his campaign released a statement from Michael Yardley, the chairman of public affairs at the Mayo Clinic, in which he described the removal of the spot as a “routine minor procedure.”
889 2008-07-29 The von Trapp family’s villa opened to the public for the first time, as a hotel and museum, over the weekend in Salzburg, Austria, Agence France-Presse reported.

Seventy years after the family fled Austria for the United States, the estate opened its doors in Aigen, a suburb in the southeastern part of the city. For 15 years the villa was the home of Baron Georg von Trapp, his seven children and Maria, their governess, who became their stepmother. The story of their escape after the Nazi occupation of the country inspired “The Sound of Music,” the Broadway musical by Rodgers and Hammerstein and an Oscar-winning film.

The 9,450-square-foot villa was the family’s home from 1923 to 1938. But the late-19th-century house, by the Italian architect Valentin Ceconi, was not featured in the 1965 Robert Wise movie because at the time of filming it was used by missionaries, who still own the house. In 1939 the home was confiscated by the Nazis and used as a residence by Heinrich Himmler.

Maria von Trapp, 94, the second eldest daughter, center above, with her brother Johannes von Trapp and their sister-in-law Erika von Trapp, was present at the opening on Friday. “It’s very nice to be here,” she said. “I feel like home again.”
890 2008-07-29 Congress has required that 23 percent of all federal contracts be set aside for small businesses, but a dozen Fortune 500 corporations received Interior Department contracts that were listed as going to small businesses.

Insanity is repeating the same behavior and expecting a different result.

The Small Business Administration has outlived its usefulness. It is time for Congress to reassign the tasks that the S.B.A. is supposed to perform to agencies that can actually perform them. Then dissolve the S.B.A.

I have had two marketing contracts with the S.B.A., and I know the ineffective manner in which that agency operates. Small businesses deserve better.
891 2008-07-29 WASHINGTON — The Treasury Department and the nation’s four biggest banks on Monday said they were ready to kick-start a market for a new tool to support home financing in the latest effort to spur a moribund housing market.

The Treasury released a set of “best practices” for institutions that issue so-called covered bonds, and Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo said they planned to begin issuing them.

“We look forward to being leading issuers as the U.S. covered bond market develops,” executive from the four banks said in a joint statement.

Covered bonds, issued by banks and secured by pools of assets like home loans, are widely used in Europe but have only become attractive in the United States since the segment of the mortgage securitization market driven by investment banks dried up last year amid a wave of home foreclosures.

Unlike mortgage securities, which pass all the risk to investors, covered bonds collateralized with mortgages would continue to perform even if the mortgages backing them default — as long as the bank remains solvent.
892 2008-07-29 For a mother infected with the virus that causes AIDS, breast-feeding presents a life-and-death dilemma. Using formula protects her child from H.I.V. But mixed with dirty water, it increases the chances that the child will die of diarrhea or malnutrition. In poor countries, most mothers still breast-feed, because it is traditional, because formula is expensive — and because using formula announces to local busybodies that a mother is probably infected.

As a result, at least 150,000 babies are infected by their mothers each year through breast-feeding, experts estimate.

In trying to prevent that, AIDS researchers have stumbled into their own terrible dilemma. One dose of nevirapine, an inexpensive antiretroviral drug, can prevent mother-to-child transmission. But a single dose doesn’t always work. And nevirapine can be dangerous; some infants develop liver failure, rashes or low white blood cell counts. Also, resistance to it develops quickly, meaning that a child who gets nevirapine and becomes infected anyway will be unable to take triple-therapy cocktails containing it or any related drug.

Last week, the journal The Lancet described trials in which 2,000 babies in Ethiopia, India and Uganda were given six weeks of nevirapine while breast-feeding. The trials, which found that six weeks was not clearly protective, only added to the controversy — a Lancet editorial called some results “head scratchers.”

The principal authors suggested that infants might therefore need more nevirapine. But some of the Indian investigators dissented publicly, saying in a letter to The Lancet that the drug was too risky and that safer formula-feeding should be encouraged instead.
893 2008-07-29 Although an official vote count has not yet been announced, Mr. Kanharith told reporters: “We can go it alone. We can claim a landslide victory. It is certain.”

In Thailand, the political opposition has used the issue to pressure the shaky coalition government of Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej, making compromise difficult.

At an earlier meeting a week ago, the two sides deadlocked on the basic question of which maps should be used to demarcate the border. Cambodia is using a map drawn up by French colonial administrators a century ago, which was also used last month by the United Nations when it designated the temple, Preah Vihear, as a World Heritage Site.

That designation aroused a nationalist backlash in Thailand that has been stoked by the political opposition there and has already caused the resignation of a foreign minister.

The meeting Monday was held in Siem Reap, in the shadow of the temple of Angkor Wat — a symbol of Cambodia’s past greatness that is depicted on the Cambodian flag. The great empire of Angkor was overrun by Thailand — then called Siam — in the 15th century, a humiliation that still resonates in the current dispute.

Preah Vihear, built between the 9th and 11th centuries, was part of the Angkorean empire and lies about 155 miles from Angkor Wat.

Sovereignty over the temple was awarded to Cambodia in 1962 by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. That forced the removal of Thai soldiers who had occupied it since the withdrawal of the French from their territories in Indochina — which included Cambodia — in the mid-1950s.

In 2003, rioters in Phnom Penh burned down the Thai Embassy and attacked Thai-owned businesses after a local radio station falsely reported that a Thai film actress had asserted that Angkor Wat actually belonged to Thailand.

The mood in Phnom Penh is more confident now. When Mr. Hun Sen cast his vote Sunday at a teachers’ training college, he did so near a billboard that showed Preah Vihear with a red, white and blue Cambodian flag flying above it.

“Long live the Kingdom of Cambodia!” the billboard read. “Preah Vihear temple is a great monument of Khmer architecture registered as a World Heritage site.”

But the retired Cambodian king, Norodom Sihanouk, who has been sidelined over the years by the dominance of Mr. Hun Sen, sounded a sour note. In a message posted on his Web site, he noted that an insect’s wintertime preserve had also been given special status by the United Nations.

“On 7 July, 2008,” he wrote in a longhand scribble, “twenty-nine other ‘properties’ were inscribed by Unesco as World Heritage sites, including the Monarch butterfly.”
894 2008-07-29 “I’m not sure where the concern is coming from,” Mr. Strigl said in an interview after the company reported its second-quarter results.

He said it cost Verizon less to acquire FiOS television customers in the second quarter than it did six months ago because the company had been offering new customers a free 19-inch high-definition television, which cost the company $200 each. (The televisions were an incentive only in the first quarter.)

Verizon began offering the FiOS service, which the company hopes will compete with the major cable companies, in New York City on Monday. But as the slower adoption rates show, Verizon is entering a hotly competitive market where customers are as jealously guarded as a seat on a crowded subway.

Verizon sued Time Warner Cable earlier this year, saying some of its rival’s commercials included false and misleading statements. And Verizon has sparred with Comcast and Time Warner over marketing techniques that Verizon was using to retain customers who wanted to switch to a competitor.

In June, the Federal Communications Commission said Verizon could not talk customers out of switching to another phone service provider while waiting for their phone numbers to be transferred, a victory for Comcast and Time Warner Cable, which filed a complaint in February.

“It’s a natural phenomenon,” Mr. Strigl said of the aggressive customer tactics. “It happened in the early days of the wireless business.”

Verizon reported second-quarter net income of $1.88 billion, or 66 cents a share, a 12 percent increase compared with profit of $1.68 billion, or 58 cents a share, in the second quarter of last year. Revenue increased slightly to $24.1 billion, from $23.3 billion a year ago. Mr. Strigl said he was pleased with the results.

Verizon, like AT&T, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile, sees data as the growth engine of its wireless business.

Mr. Strigl said more than 30 percent of the mobile devices Verizon is selling have access to the Internet, and also receive and send e-mail and text messages. By contrast, he said, “a year ago it was half that.”

Verizon’s expansion efforts could be thwarted if union-represented employees walk out when their contract expires on Aug. 2. (They voted last week to authorize a strike.) Verizon executives said they were confident that a resolution would be reached.

Mr. Strigl conceded that there was one area that had disappointed Verizon. The company lost 133,000 customers for its D.S.L. Internet service, which uses phone lines.

The loss had nothing to do with the flagging economy, he said. Many analysts have feared that customers tend to drop costly services when personal budgets need to be trimmed. Mr. Strigl attributed the loss to some customers switching to FiOS, while others defected to competitors.

Verizon also lost 920,000 residential and business telephone lines — they now tally 38.3 million — a decline of 8.5 percent year over year. The drop was steeper among residential customers, an 11.4 percent drop compared with the same period a year ago.
895 2008-07-29 “We continue to analyze the market and our production of trucks and S.U.V.’s,” Tony Sapienza, a G.M. spokesman, said. “These actions are a direct result of the market shift by consumers.”

Rising gas prices have devastated the market for large vehicles that were once the biggest source of profits for G.M. and its Detroit rivals, Ford Motor and Chrysler.

Over all, United States vehicle sales were down 10 percent through June, and are headed for the lowest annual level in more than a decade.

It’s not just the troubled Detroit automakers that are feeling the impact, either.

Toyota lowered its global sales target for this year to 9.5 million, from 9.85 million, on Monday, primarily because of slumping demand in the United States.

The hardest hit segment has been truck-based vehicles. So far this year, sales of large pickups have fallen 25 percent. Sales of S.U.V.’s have dropped 32 percent.

The downturn has spurred Ford to accelerate plans to shift much of its North American truck production to small cars.

Last week, Ford reported an $8.7-billion loss in the second quarter, its largest quarterly loss ever, primarily because of write-downs of the value of its truck plants and pickups and S.U.V.’s coming off leases.

The dwindling value of used trucks also prompted Chrysler’s auto-lending arm to announce plans to eliminate all vehicle leases as of Aug. 1.

Industry analysts have estimated that the value of used large S.U.V.’s was down as much as 27 percent from a year ago.

“Wholesale values of large S.U.V.’s and trucks have fallen dramatically, and that’s certainly something that has not abated yet,” said Tom Webb, chief economist for the Mannheim auto-auction company based in Atlanta.

G.M. had already made plans to idle truck and S.U.V. plants for up to 12 weeks through the end of the year.

The automaker, whose overall United States sales have fallen 16 percent in the first six months of the year, also recently introduced zero-interest, long-term loans to help increase demand.

But analysts say the outlook for vehicle sales remains dismal for the foreseeable future.

“Nobody really knows if this thing has bottomed-out yet,” David Healy of Burnham Securities said.

G.M. said Monday that it would remove shifts on Sept. 29 at its Moraine plant, which makes midsize S.U.V.’s like the Chevrolet Trailblazer, and in Shreveport, which makes compact pickups and the Hummer H3.

The company also plans to slow production at its truck plant in Silao, Mexico, and its Hummer factory in Mishawaka, Ind.

G.M. said Monday that it would also schedule additional downtime at several other factories.

Besides slashing truck production, G.M. has stepped up plans for broad cost cuts.

The automaker’s chairman, Rick Wagoner, said this month that G.M. would reduce its costs by $10 billion through a variety of actions including cutting the North American white-collar payroll by 20 percent and eliminating health care for salaried retirees beyond the age of 65.

On Monday, the company introduced another cost-saving measure by reducing warranty terms on its Saab brand vehicles sold in the United States.

The automaker will now offer four-year, 50,000-mile warranties rather than the five-year, 100,000-mile warranties attached to other G.M. vehicles.

Saab will continue to be the only G.M. division to provide free scheduled maintenance for three years, or 36,000 miles, however.
896 2008-07-29 All are ardently pro-Franco and supporters of Mussolini and Hitler, with the exception of the young José María, an architecture student who takes no interest in political questions. His passion is for Montse, the ravishing, headstrong yet chilly daughter of the richest and most hard-line of the right-wingers at the academy.

Montse is secretly for the Republic and the Allies. She is recruited by a British intelligence organization whose mission is to spy on the Rome activities of Hitler’s and Mussolini’s agents and their Spanish supporters. José María finds himself working with her; his devotion eventually wins her, at least in part; and as the novel continues into and through World War II, they marry.

At the same time, though, Montse has long been romantically attached to Prince Junio, a fanatical Fascist activist, a Gestapo official, a personal emissary of Heinrich Himmler and, all in all, a suave villain. Ostensibly, that is. No summary of the “Map” plot can stand alone. Every action and most of the main characters (with the exception of the bland and formless José María) have a doubled face.

A list is more to the point than a summary. The Vatican intelligence chief, a priest, turns out to work with the Allies. Another priest is a Nazi torturer. A bookseller who assists Prince Junio is part of the British network. Prince Junio’s chauffeur, who does his boss’s dirty work, is an agent detailed by the Gestapo to spy on him. Montse goes to Barcelona to coincide with a Himmler visit; disguising herself as a chambermaid, she steals his briefcase and brings it back to British intelligence in Rome.

The center of the book’s tangle (romantic as well as political) is Prince Junio. He arranges to bribe and then kill a priest at the Vatican Library to get hold of an ancient map on behalf of Himmler. It is a fake, it turns out, but Himmler’s manic mysticism has led him to believe that it was drawn by God and possesses earth-shaking powers. The map, in fact, is poisoned, and when opened narrowly misses killing the Nazi leaders.

So we are meant to wonder: Just who is Junio, and for whom is he working? Throughout — until the end, that is, when all is more or less revealed — this graceful, ruthless aristocrat drops an occasional hint of kindness. He does or seems to do the Nazis’ dirty work, yet he confides to Montse and José María his horror at their atrocities.

A more skillful handling would frame it all as a running mystery; instead it becomes a creeping confusion. To succeed, a mystery smuggles its truth past the reader. Here, the smuggling is done so awkwardly as to spill out rattly chunks of hint, contradiction and clue while trying to get through.

There are beguiling moments in “Map.” The writer does a lovely portrait of the hothouse claustrophobia among the Franco supporters huddled at the academy. One woman claims to receive guidance from the ghost of Beatrice Cenci (the 16th-century killer of her rapist father). There are haunting lines. Bombed-out Berlin seen from the air is “a dying city surrounded by snowy fields that looked like shrouds.” On the other hand, great clumps of recycled history clog the faltering action.

It takes real skill (“Da Vinci Code” again) to write a successful bad novel; Mr. Calderón, a Spanish publisher and author of young-adult fiction, seems to be a novice at it. He has a great deal to say (and sometimes says it well) about the moral and political implications of the struggle between Fascism and freedom in World War II and the Spanish Civil War. But what he has to say keeps getting in the way of what he has to do: namely, to produce a gripping thriller with romantic and metaphysical trimmings.
897 2008-07-29 The meticulous research of Goldin and Katz is complemented by a report from James Heckman of the University of Chicago. Using his own research, Heckman also concludes that high school graduation rates peaked in the U.S. in the late 1960s, at about 80 percent. Since then they have declined.

In “Schools, Skills and Synapses,” Heckman probes the sources of that decline. It’s not falling school quality, he argues. Nor is it primarily a shortage of funding or rising college tuition costs. Instead, Heckman directs attention at family environments, which have deteriorated over the past 40 years.

Heckman points out that big gaps in educational attainment are present at age 5. Some children are bathed in an atmosphere that promotes human capital development and, increasingly, more are not. By 5, it is possible to predict, with depressing accuracy, who will complete high school and college and who won’t.

I.Q. matters, but Heckman points to equally important traits that start and then build from those early years: motivation levels, emotional stability, self-control and sociability. He uses common sense to intuit what these traits are, but on this subject economists have a lot to learn from developmental psychologists.

I point to these two research projects because the skills slowdown is the biggest issue facing the country. Rising gas prices are bound to dominate the election because voters are slapped in the face with them every time they visit the pump. But this slow-moving problem, more than any other, will shape the destiny of the nation.

Second, there is a big debate under way over the sources of middle-class economic anxiety. Some populists emphasize the destructive forces of globalization, outsourcing and predatory capitalism. These people say we need radical labor market reforms to give the working class a chance. But the populists are going to have to grapple with the Goldin, Katz and Heckman research, which powerfully buttresses the arguments of those who emphasize human capital policies. It’s not globalization or immigration or computers per se that widen inequality. It’s the skills gap. Boosting educational attainment at the bottom is more promising than trying to reorganize the global economy.

Third, it’s worth noting that both sides of this debate exist within the Democratic Party. The G.O.P. is largely irrelevant. If you look at Barack Obama’s education proposals — especially his emphasis on early childhood — you see that they flow naturally and persuasively from this research. (It probably helps that Obama and Heckman are nearly neighbors in Chicago). McCain’s policies seem largely oblivious to these findings. There’s some vague talk about school choice, but Republicans are inept when talking about human capital policies.

America rose because it got more out of its own people than other nations. That stopped in 1970. Now, other issues grab headlines and campaign attention. But this tectonic plate is still relentlessly and menacingly shifting beneath our feet.
898 2008-07-29 PARIS -- Ryanair, Europe's   biggest low-fare carrier, said on   Monday that 2008 was stacking   up to be a dismal year for airlines   and warned that it might post its   first annual loss as a public company.   Shares of Ryanair Holdings   closed...
899 2008-07-29 The foreign ministers of Thailand and Cambodia began what they said would be protracted talks over a disputed mountaintop temple where soldiers from the two nations have confronted each other this month. ''The situation is not easing,'' a spokesma...
900 2008-07-29 SAFETY NET FOR PATIENTS? Dr. Lawrence Dorr, below, an orthopedic surgeon in Los Angeles, realized last year that something was wrong with some of his hip replacement patients, a discovery that showed how a national database on patients might have ...
901 2008-07-30 Nicholas Kristof considers California's upcoming vote on improving conditions for farm animals, while recalling his own farm-boy childhood....
902 2008-07-30 Henry Farrell, left, of George Washington University and Jacob Heilbrunn of the National Interest debate whether John McCain should reorient his campaign toward domestic issues.<br/><a href="http://bloggingheads.tv/" class="more">Go to Bloggingheads.tv</a>
903 2008-07-30 MEXICO CITY (AP) - Money sent home by Mexican migrants declined by 2.2 percent in the first six months of 2008, the first sustained drop in more than a decade, Mexico's Central Bank reported Wednesday. That story arrived on the wire today, and it ...
904 2008-07-30 As he often does, the Republican candidate mentions the "Bridge to Nowhere" project as evidence of pork-barrel spending. But he doesn't update his attack with the latest news of an indictment against the chief sponsor....
905 2008-07-30 Google tells Congress to insulate America....
906 2008-07-30 A secretly taped look at a rehearsal for the opening of the Beijing Games has been circulating online....
907 2008-07-30 A secretly taped look at a rehearsal for the Zhang Yimou-directed opening ceremonies of the Beijing Games....
908 2008-07-30 Aired Tuesday night on NBC: Barack Obama was on '"Meet the Press" Sunday. John McCain, meanwhile, was on a new show called "I Wish I Could Meet the Press." No, polls show that Barack Obama is more popular than John McCain in Germany, France, and G...
909 2008-07-30 Senator John McCain, whose recent suggestion that an increase in the Social Security payroll tax would not be off the table infuriated some fiscal conservatives, sought to reassure people here Wednesday that he opposes tax increases....
910 2008-07-30 A new McCain campaign ad puts Barack Obama in the company of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton....
911 2008-07-30 The Democratic candidate jokes about a family legend while on the stump....
912 2008-07-30 The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission hopes that sanctioning Comcast for slowing the use of file-sharing software on its Internet connections will set a precedent for all sorts of networks. His view is that phone companies, Interne...
913 2008-07-30 Wall Street's government-run cash machine will stay in service at least a few months longer. The Federal Reserve announced Wednesday that it would extend its discount-window lending program to major investment banks, put into effect as Bear Stearn...
914 2008-07-30 DLJ Merchant Banking Partners, Credit Suisse's private equity arm, said on Wednesday that Steven Rattner, its chairman and a 20-year veteran of the firm, is retiring after 20 years. He will be replaced by Nicole S. Arnaboldi. Mr. Rattner, 48, is s...
915 2008-07-30 Wealthy investors, it seems, feel pretty good about hedge funds these days. A recent survey conducted by Bank of America found that high net-worth individuals expressed greater satisfaction over the last year with alternatives investments, includi...
916 2008-07-30 Politics | How boxing helps define John McCain: His "lifelong romance" with the sport dates to his days as a Navy pugilist. But as a Senator he could not abide "ultimate fighting" because it violated his core belief in the idea of "a good fight-on...
917 2008-07-30 A lawsuit against UBS alleging that the Swiss bank engaged in fraud related to holdings of a fund in loss-making company Endwave was dismissed by a New York Supreme Court judge, court documents showed. The complaint claimed UBS was aware that Wood...
918 2008-07-30 Department store chain Mervyn's said on Tuesday that it had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection "due to the state of the economy and difficult operating environment for our industry." The retailer said Mervyn's stores will remain open as it...
919 2008-07-30 Mr. Kaminsky walks a fine line between protecting millions of computer users and eroding consumer confidence in Internet banking and shopping. But he is among those experts who think that full disclosure of security threats can push network administrators to take action. “We need to have disaster planning, and we need to worry,” he said.

The flaw that Mr. Kaminsky discovered is in the Domain Name System, a kind of automated phone book that converts human-friendly addresses like google.com into machine-friendly numeric counterparts.

The potential consequences of the flaw are significant. It could allow a criminal to redirect Web traffic secretly, so that a person typing a bank’s actual Web address would be sent to an impostor site set up to steal the user’s name and password. The user might have no clue about the misdirection, and unconfirmed reports in the Web community indicate that attempted attacks are already under way.

The problem is analogous to the risk of phoning directory assistance at, for example, AT&T, asking for the number for Bank of America and being given an illicit number at which an operator masquerading as a bank employee asks for your account number and password.

The online flaw and the rush to repair it are an urgent reminder that the Internet remains a sometimes anarchic jumble of jurisdictions. No single person or group can step in to protect the online transactions of millions of users. Internet security rests on the shoulders of people like Mr. Kaminsky, a director at IOActive, a computer security firm, who had to persuade other experts that the problem was real.

“This drives home the risk people face, and the consumer should get the message,” said Ken Silva, chief technology officer of VeriSign, which administers Internet addresses ending in .com and .net. “Don’t just take for granted all the things that machines are doing for you.”

When Mr. Kaminsky, 29, announced the flaw on July 8, he said he would wait a month to release details about it, in the hope that he could spur managers of computer systems around the world to fix them with a software patch before attackers could figure out how to exploit it.

Last week, however, accurate details of the flaw were briefly published online by a computer security firm, apparently by accident. Now security experts are holding their breath to see whether the patching of as many as nine million affected computers around the world will happen fast enough.

“People are taking this pretty seriously and patching their servers,” Mr. Silva said.

Major Internet service providers in the United States this week indicated that in most cases, the software patch, which makes the flaw much more difficult to exploit, was already in place or soon would be.

Comcast and Verizon, two of the largest providers, said they had fixed the problem for their customers. AT&T said it was in the process of doing so.

But the problem is a global one, and the length of time required to fix it could leave many Web users vulnerable for weeks or months. And there are millions of places around the world where people might find themselves vulnerable to potential attacks, ranging from their workplaces to an airport lounge or an Internet cafe.

Individuals and small companies with some technical skills can protect themselves by changing the network preferences of their computer settings so that they use the domain name servers of a Web service called OpenDNS (www.opendns.com).

Some computer systems are immune to the flaw. About 15 percent of domain name servers in the United States and 40 percent in Europe, including those at major Internet providers like America Online and Deutsche Telekom, use software from a Dutch company called PowerDNS, which is not vulnerable.

Still, much of the Internet remains vulnerable. “I’m watching people patch, and I realize this is not an easy thing to do,” Mr. Kaminsky said in an interview.

The flaw, which Mr. Kaminsky stumbled across in February, had been overlooked for more than two decades. The eureka moment came when he was idly contemplating a different security threat. He suddenly realized that it would be possible to guess crucial information about the protocol that domain name servers use to convert the numerical Web addresses.

Mr. Kaminsky worried about his discovery for several days and then contacted Paul Vixie, a software engineer who runs the Internet Systems Consortium and is responsible for maintaining a widely used version of software for domain name servers, known as BIND. Almost immediately, software engineers who looked at the vulnerability realized that Mr. Kaminsky had found a significant weakness.

In March, Microsoft held the secret meeting at its headquarters in Redmond, Wash. Sixteen representatives from security organizations and companies, including Cisco, talked about ways to combat the potential threat.

But after several delays while vendors fixed their software, Mr. Kaminsky went public.

For Mr. Kaminsky, the discovery and his subsequent warning to the Internet community were the culmination of an almost decade-long career as a security specialist. He was spotting bugs in software for Cisco and contributing to a book on computer security while still in college.

“I play this game to protect people,” he said.

He thinks that it is necessary to publish information about security threats to motivate system operators to protect themselves. Otherwise, “You don’t get to tell the river you need more time until it floods,” he said.

He said that he had initially hoped to give the Internet community a head start of a full month to fix the problem, but his plan was foiled when technical details were briefly posted online last week. “I would have liked more time, but we got 13 days and I’m proud of that,” he said.

The new flaw has sharpened the debate over how to come up with a long-term solution to the broader problem of the lack of security in the Domain Name System, which was invented in 1983 and was not created with uses like online banking in mind.

While Mr. Kaminsky is being hailed as a latter-day Paul Revere, Internet experts like Bruce Schneier, a member of the insular community that guards online security, said flaws like this were a routine occurrence and no reason to stay off the Internet.

“If there is a flaw in your car, it will get fixed eventually,” said Mr. Schneier, the chief security technology officer for British Telecom. “Most people keep driving.”
920 2008-07-30 I really, really, really love dogs. I give my 3-year-old Westie birthday parties, buy her plane tickets and take her on play dates. I stop owners on the street to fawn over their Bichons and Wheatens and Labs. If I find myself in front of a television on Super Bowl Sunday, I watch Animal Planet’s “Puppy Bowl,” which is essentially a passel of young dogs wandering aimlessly around a playpen designed to look like a football field. It goes on for hours.

So imagine my elation when I learned that CBS was doing a series called “Greatest American Dog.” I tried to forget that it was a reality show, one of the most hideous, soul-destroying genres ever hatched.

As the fourth episode is broadcast on Wednesday (the show has been moved from Thursday nights to Wednesdays), I am resigned to the producers’ intent to make the series “Most Annoying American Dog Owner” instead. Clearly somebody was inspired more by Christopher Guest’s comic film “Best in Show,” a study in human inanity, than by a love of animals. But the series offers occasional moments of joy, like the first time Elvis, the scrappy Parson Russell terrier from New York, and Andrew, the silky-haired, 10-pound Maltese from Virginia, play together on the lawn, running their little legs off.

“Greatest American Dog” assembles a typical roster of contestants, moves them all into a big California house and pits them against one another. Why America chooses to watch television that consistently brings out the worst in people is beyond me, but that seems to be part of the “reality” appeal.

Brandy, a California fashion designer, is positioned as the Omarosa (the villainous contestant on “The Apprentice”) of the group. “I won’t tolerate anybody touching my dog,” she announced in the first episode. She also will not let Beacon, her miniature schnauzer, run around with no clothes on. So now that we hate Brandy, it is satisfying when Beacon is the first to be eliminated in doggie musical chairs. And that’s terrible: I don’t want to feel gleeful about a little dog’s failure.
921 2008-07-30 White Burgundy is what comes immediately to mind when one thinks of great French white wines, with a few afterthoughts remaining for Sancerre, Vouvray and Alsace. Alone among Bordeaux’s leading regions, Pessac-Léognan excels in the production of superb dry white wines, which can be among the best whites that France has to offer.

Domaine de Chevalier happens to be my favorite, but it is certainly rivaled for primacy by the tiny quantity of jewel-like whites produced by Haut-Brion, the dazzling and delicious wines from Laville-Haut-Brion, and perhaps the dense whites of Pape Clément, with aromas redolent of lanolin and beeswax.

These wines can be very expensive, though far less so than white Burgundies of equivalent quality. A notch below them in quality, and excellent values, are the creamy, luscious whites from producers like Smith Haut Lafitte, de Fieuzal, Carbonnieux, Haut-Bergey, Couhins-Lurton and La Louvière.

Yet few people — or few Americans, at least — seek out these wines.

Possibly, that’s because white Bordeaux for many years had a deservedly poor reputation. “The white of 40 years ago was mainly sweet wine of low quality,” said Denis Dubourdieu, a consultant and winemaker in Graves who has played a leading role in the improvement of the region’s white wines.

That didn’t deter the British. For years, the white wine of choice there was insipid white Graves, the vinous equivalent of the British cuisine of the time. But white Bordeaux — much improved nowadays — still sells in Britain today, as it does in Belgium and even in Russia and Japan. Yet the wines have gained little traction in the United States. That may be because thoughts of white wine go directly to chardonnay, sauvignon blanc and other wines labeled by their constituent grapes.

“Americans think varietally unless it’s a well-known label,” said John W. Laird, vice president, European estates, with Diageo Chateau and Estate Wines. “It’s another example of the relatively complex nature of traditional French sources.”

The idea of white Bordeaux was not always so baffling. Before World War II, most of the wine produced in Bordeaux was white. In fact, up until the 1970s, sémillon was the single most-planted grape in Bordeaux.

“When I was a boy,” said Mr. Dubourdieu, who was born in 1949, “it was two-thirds white, and when I was 20 it was 50-50.” Many of those vines were in the Entre-Deux-Mers region, that swath of flat vineyard area between the Garonne and the Dordogne Rivers that is today a much-improved source of inexpensive Bordeaux blanc, as well as in Graves. Today the proportion in Bordeaux, including the sweet white wine centers of Sauternes and Barsac, is around 85 percent red.

The vineyards here in Pessac-Léognan, set amid pine trees and suburban dwellings, contain far more red grapes than white. Partly that’s because the sort of clay and limestone subsoils required by the white vines are in short supply.

Of about 175 acres of vines at Smith Haut Lafitte, only about 27 are whites. At Domaine de Chevalier, about 12 of 99 acres are whites. Château Carbonnieux is an exception: its 235 acres of vines are evenly split between white and red. Far more typical is Château de Fieuzal, where only about 20 of 198 acres are planted with white grapes.

Demand has always been high for the Fieuzal whites, and after the estate was acquired by a French bank in 1994, about 27 more acres of whites were planted. But the quality wasn’t the same, and 22 of those acres were grafted back to red grapes.

“For a banker, that was logical, but not for a winemaker,” Gilles Maligne, the sales manager at Fieuzal, told me. “The soil was not suited for it.” In 2001, the bank sold the estate to Lochlann Quinn, an Irish businessman.

Compared with the relatively simple task of making red wine, white wine is far more complicated and labor intensive. At Domaine de Chevalier, picking the white grapes, 70 percent sauvignon blanc and 30 percent sémillon, is difficult and time-consuming, said Rémi Edange, the assistant manager, as we walked through the densely planted vineyard. The white grapes are more delicate than the reds, and must be picked at peak ripeness and handled gently to avoid oxidation. This sometimes requires multiple passes at the same vines over the course of a couple of weeks.

Then, in the cellar, the red wine is fermented in huge steel tanks, before being put in barrels to age. But the white is fermented in small oak barrels, each of which must receive individual care to make sure a secondary fermentation does not take place. Then, as the wine ages, the sediment, or lees, in each barrel is stirred periodically, which contributes to the wines’ voluptuous texture. “One bottle of white requires 70 times more precision than one bottle of red,” Mr. Edange said.

While the number of white Burgundy producers can run into the hundreds, far fewer estates make fine white Bordeaux. Partly, this is because some of the best land for vineyards in the northern Graves was lost in the last century as the city of Bordeaux inexorably grew, planting houses rather than grapevines over the historic gravel beds. In 1875 there were 12,000 or so acres of vineyard in the northern Graves. A hundred years later, barely 1,200 acres remained.

Then, in 1987, the greater Graves region was divided into two, with the northern half, where the most prestigious properties were situated, taking the name Pessac-Léognan.

“The quality and characteristics of the wines were not the same,” said André Lurton, the proprietor of La Louvière and Couhins-Lurton, who had pushed for the division for many years. “The price of the wine was twice in the north what it was in the south.”

Since then, the region has experienced something of a revival. Vineyard areas that had been abandoned have been recovered, and roughly 3,700 acres are planted today.

By all accounts the split caused both the north and the south to improve their wines, but some today see the result as something of a marketing nightmare. “Graves was such a good name,” said Guy Durand Saint-Omer, a wine importer and exporter in Bordeaux. “Pessac-Léognan is very local — it’s meaningless.”

While the south, which retained the name Graves, has struggled to establish an identity, its dry white wines can be good, too, and even superb. One of the leading whites comes from Mr. Dubourdieu’s own estate, Clos Floridène, which makes a blend of half sauvignon blanc and half sémillon. The wines are fresh, balanced and richly textured, and can age for 10 to 15 years. If the top whites from Pessac-Léognan are great values at $50 to $100, these wines, at $20 or $25, are steals.
922 2008-07-30 The authorities shut down a major highway to keep most travelers far from the west entrance of Yosemite National Park so crews could battle a huge wildfire raging close to thousands of nearby homes. The blaze in a steep, dry river canyon had destroyed 25 homes and had forced the evacuation of 300 others in the Sierra Nevada foothill towns of Midpines and Coulterville, the authorities said. An area of more than 46 square miles of rugged terrain had burned since Friday, and the fire was just 15 percent contained.
923 2008-07-30 The indictment is the biggest development in what has been an expansive federal investigation into corruption in Alaska government. Three state lawmakers have been convicted on corruption charges, and two others face corruption charges.

Ben Stevens, the senator’s son and a former State Senate president, has been accused of accepting thousands of dollars in bribes from Mr. Allen, but he has not been charged. Representative Don Young, a Republican and the state’s sole congressman, is also under investigation for his connections to VECO.

Senator Stevens, in a statement, declared his innocence and said he would fight the charges, but Alaska’s political class was clearly shaken by the indictment. Gov. Sarah Palin, a Republican, told reporters that it “rocks the foundation of our state.”

The most immediate and pressing issue is the state’s primary election on Aug. 26. Polls suggest that Mr. Stevens, embroiled in controversy for more than a year after investigators raided his home here, faced a tough re-election battle even before he was indicted.

Ivan Moore, an independent pollster in Alaska, said the surveys had shown Mr. Stevens ahead in the Republican primary, but vulnerable to a Democratic challenger in November.

“I’ve been saying to everyone who’s had the patience to listen: Ted Stevens is not going to get re-elected,” Mr. Moore said. “He’s over. He’s finished.”

Mr. Moore said his most recent poll, taken last week, showed the leading Democrat in the race, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage, ahead of Mr. Stevens in a possible November face-off. In the Republican primary, Mr. Stevens held a commanding lead over his closest challenger, Dave Cuddy, who comes from a wealthy banking family.

Carl Shepro, a professor of political science at the University of Alaska in Anchorage, said it was an open question whether Mr. Stevens, an icon in Alaskan politics, would be as vulnerable in November as some think.

Mr. Begich, a popular mayor who has received strong support from national Democrats, did not use the indictment to go on the attack — at least not on Tuesday.

“The indictment of Senator Ted Stevens is a sad day for Alaska and for the senator after his 40 years of service to our state,” the mayor said in a written statement.

The investigation of Mr. Stevens and the others has shaken a state known for political continuity and prompted broad calls for reform from a new generation of politicians, including Governor Palin.

“You’d like to think, I guess, that it’s evidence that good things are happening,” Professor Shepro said. “To a lot of people he represents the old party, and I know that certainly the governor is attempting to change the direction of the Republican Party.”
924 2008-07-30 DENVER — A biopsy of a spot removed from the right cheek of Senator John McCain revealed no evidence of skin cancer, an official at the Mayo Clinic said Tuesday in a statement released by the McCain campaign.

Mr. McCain, who has had four melanomas, had a spot removed for testing at his regular checkup at the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Ariz.

“The biopsy that was performed did not show any evidence of skin cancer,” Michael Yardley, the chairman of public affairs at the clinic, said in a statement. “No further treatment is necessary.”
925 2008-07-30 “Jay was one of the biggest innovators of skateboarding in his time,” said Danny Way, 34, who will compete in the skateboarding Big Air event at the X Games on Thursday. “He brought a carefree personality to skateboarding, and skateboarding has always been a little rebellious.”

Although Adams initially rode the rising popularity of skateboarding to fame, he eventually chafed at the sport’s increasing emphasis on commercialism and contests. Soon his rebelliousness overshadowed his skating.

“We were wild and acting crazy and not being very positive role models,” he said of his fellow professional skaters.

This led to serious legal problems for Adams in 1982. While hanging out in Hollywood after a concert, he taunted a gay couple, which led to a fight. Adams said that he fled, but that a crowd joined in and stomped one of the men to death.

Adams was convicted of felony assault and sentenced to six months in prison.

He spent the next two decades in and out of prison as he battled drug addiction and his own demons. After the deaths of his brother, father, grandmother and mother in less than two years, he hit bottom during the late 1990s. Adams was, in his words, “a down-and-out junkie.”

In 2001, an award-winning documentary, “Dogtown and Z-Boys,” chronicled his early rise and fall and catapulted him back into the limelight. At the time, Adams was serving two and a half years in a Hawaiian jail on drug charges.

He was released in 2002. In 2005, Hollywood followed up with a feature film, “Lords of Dogtown,” in which Emile Hirsch played a young Adams.

By then Adams had begun trading on his renewed status. He signed endorsement deals, but failed to pay taxes for three years. He relapsed into heroin addiction. And in June 2004 he was overheard on a federal wiretap introducing a crystal meth dealer in California to a buyer in Hawaii.

He was not arrested until November 2005. In the meantime, he stopped using drugs, got married and was expecting a child. All of which weighed at his sentencing when the judge showed leniency.

Still, if he breaks the law again, Adams expects to be locked up for a long time. “My good-luck chances with judges are through,” he said. “I can’t make those mistakes anymore.”

Since emerging from prison, Adams has spent most of his time at an indoor skate park at the headquarters of the surf apparel maker Hurley in Costa Mesa. That was where he was on Tuesday morning, sitting on a skateboard in the middle of the cavernous space, tattoos scrawled across his face and outstretched arms and legs.

He works there as the facilities manager, keeping the park clean and making sure that skaters have signed liability waivers.

A condition of his release, the job requires him to wake at 5 a.m., followed by an hour-and-a-half bus ride to begin work at 8 a.m. He is back at the halfway house and in bed by 9. On some nights he attends drug or alcohol treatment.

The simple schedule is designed to help Adams, a recovering drug addict, readjust to civilian life.

“We’ve got to make sure he gets on the bus and gets to work on time,” said his agent, Peter Townend, a former world surfing champion who has known Adams since the late 1970s. “If he gets too much too soon, he’ll go off the tracks again.”

Family and friends are watching him closely. His wife, Alisha, and 2-year-old daughter, Venice, are in Alabama biding time while Adams demonstrates that he can control his addictions. He also has a 14-year-old son, Seven, who lives in Santa Cruz, Calif.

Adams, whose fearsome appearance belies a soft-spoken demeanor, said his faith in God and the routine of work would help him remain drug free.

“My ideal future would be to be with my wife and family and to be somewhere where I’m helping young kids not make the mistakes I’ve made,” he said.

Meanwhile, he looks forward to resuming surfing and skateboarding.

With the X Games just 45 minutes north on Interstate 405, those dreams seem tantalizingly close.

Whatever happens this week, there are the matters of a future with his family and another five years of probation. For Jay Adams, there is a long road ahead.
926 2008-07-30 WASHINGTON — President Bush held private talks with five prominent Chinese dissidents on Tuesday, and urged China’s foreign minister to relax restrictions on human rights, as part of an intensifying White House effort to put pressure on Beijing before Mr. Bush travels there in a little over a week for the summer Olympic Games.

Mr. Bush received the dissidents — Harry Wu, Wei Jingsheng, Rebiya Kadeer, Sasha Gong and Bob Fu — in the White House residence, where he “assured them that he will carry the message of freedom as he travels to Beijing,” said his press secretary, Dana Perino. Earlier, Mr. Bush dropped in on a meeting between his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, and China’s foreign minister, Yang Jiechi.

The back-to-back meetings came a week before Mr. Bush leaves for an Asia trip that will include the Olympics. The president has faced criticism from human rights advocates and members of Congress for his decision to attend. But his meetings on Tuesday drew praise from some of those critics.

“This is a welcome step, and President Bush should now speak forcefully about China’s human rights situation, because quiet diplomacy alone has shown little success,” T. Kumar, the Asia advocacy director at Amnesty International U.S.A., said in a statement on Tuesday.

In a report issued this week, Amnesty International accused China of breaking its promise to open up freedoms in exchange for permission from the International Olympic Committee to host the 2008 Games. A senior White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss delicate diplomatic matters, said Mr. Bush shared that concern.

The official said the dissidents told Mr. Bush on Tuesday that an estimated 80 million to 100 million Chinese were worshiping in underground churches. “He wants to see that open up,” the official said, adding that Mr. Bush also wants to press China to relax restrictions on the news media.
927 2008-07-30 Colgate-Palmolive raised prices by 4.5 percent in its second quarter, the biggest increase in more than a decade, without suffering a slowdown in either sales or profit, the company said on Tuesday.

Colgate, maker of its namesake toothpaste, Hill’s Science Diet pet food and Tom’s of Maine personal care items, said that its second-quarter profit rose 19 percent on strong sales worldwide, as the price increases helped offset rising input costs. The company forecast double-digit growth in per-share earnings for next year.

In the second quarter, the company earned $493.8 million, or 92 cents a share, compared with $415.8 million, or 76 cents, a year ago.

Excluding reorganization costs, Colgate earned $523.3 million, or 98 cents a share, in the latest quarter. Revenue rose 16 percent, to $3.96 billion, from $3.41 billion.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial, who typically exclude one-time charges like revamping costs, had expected earnings of 94 cents a share and revenue of $3.84 billion, on average.

The company used a combination of higher pricing, cost-cutting and the addition of higher-margin products to “almost completely” offset sharply rising raw materials and packaging costs, the chief executive, Ian M. Cook, said in a statement.
928 2008-07-30 LOS ANGELES (Reuters) — DreamWorks Animation SKG said on Tuesday that second-quarter profit fell sharply, but still topped expectations, helped by its hit “Kung Fu Panda” film.

But the studio warned that higher international marketing costs might affect third-quarter earnings.

Net income fell to $27.5 million, or 30 cents a share, from $61.8 million, or 60 cents a share, a year ago.

Excluding items, DreamWorks posted earnings of 28 cents a share. On that basis, the result topped analysts’ average expectation of 23 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.

“Kung Fu Panda” has grossed over $500 million worldwide since its June release, and is on track to become the company’s most successful nonsequel film.

DreamWorks expects higher international theatrical marketing costs to increase the amount that its distributor, Viacom, needs to recoup before DreamWorks realizes any revenue from a film. That will lower DreamWorks’ revenue in the third quarter.

To date, “Kung Fu Panda” has grossed about $210 million at the domestic box office, and contributed $46.4 million in second-quarter revenue, the company said.
929 2008-07-30 “I had great doubts about Dines’s compliance with the producer-only rule,” said Ms. Planck, who was director of the Greenmarket for about six months in 2003. She was fired after many farmers objected to changes she tried to make in the program.

Ms. Planck said she faced resistance to enforcing the producer-only rule.

“When I found no corn on a farm that was selling corn, I went back to the office and said, I think we have a problem here,” she recalled. She said she was discouraged from following up.

Mr. Hurwitz declined to comment on why Dines Farms was not suspended until November 2007, but said, “Our farmers are in compliance, and when they’re not we take it very seriously.”

In the 17 months that he has worked with Greenmarket, Mr. Hurwitz said, five full-time and part-time inspectors have visited 122 farms and issued 13 violations. Three vendors have been suspended over the producer-only rule.

Mr. Dines, who for five years sold his meat at Greenmarkets in Jackson Heights in Queens; Cortelyou, Fort Greene and Greenpoint in Brooklyn; and Murray Hill, West 97th Street, Tompkins Square, TriBeCa and Union Square in Manhattan, admitted he had on occasion sold meat he had bought from others and has placed his animals in other farms or facilities to be raised.

He argued, however, that Greenmarket officials were unrealistic to expect that farmers in the Northeast’s harsh climate would sell only what they grew.

“The disconnect is they expect people up here to produce everything,” he said in an interview at the Flea on Sunday. “And financially, weatherwise, heatwise, expensewise, it’s impossible to do. You don’t have the infrastructure in this state to support agriculture like you do down south and out west.”

Bob Lewis, a state agriculture official and a founder of Greenmarket in 1976, said the group’s other 186 farmers manage to follow the producer-only rule.

“I would say that the success of Greenmarket demonstrates that a producer-only policy is viable in New York,” Mr. Lewis said. “Many farms have diversified themselves while meeting the Greenmarket’s rules.”

Other Greenmarket vendors said Mr. Dines’s behavior damaged the credibility of all farmers.

“It hurts the business,” said Laurent Danthine, a co-owner of Arcadian Pastures, an organic meat farm in Sloansville, N.Y. “Farming at a small scale is hard enough as it is, and when you have things like that happen it doesn’t make it easier.”

When Mr. Danthine replaced Mr. Dines’s stall in the Greenpoint Greenmarket, some customers complained that his prices were higher.

“What’s tough is that you do it right, but then you have someone who comes and says they have the same product you sell and they’re doing it at a lower price,” he said. “I’m not against people who raise chicken without organic feed, but be true to what you’re selling.”

Dines Farms’s Web site, dinesfarms.net, advertises all-natural and pasture-raised meats, including chicken, beef, pork, lamb, duck, turkey and rabbit. The Web site also says that the meat has no hormones, growth stimulants, animal byproducts, pesticides, herbicides or antibiotics and that “all meats are processed and packaged on the farm without preservatives.”

Mr. Dines said he began boarding out his animals to other farms and facilities in 2003, after he hurt his shoulder in an accident and could not work in the winter as a plumber. He could not afford to build winter housing for his livestock or fencing for his cows, he said, so he arranged for some of his animals to be raised on other farms and hatcheries, which he would not identify.

He has no cows on his farm but said he had about 30 off site, at locations he did not disclose.

He said he buys chickens from farmers who “have too much,” and he has bought boxes of chicken thighs for sausage from a supplier in Georgia who he said supplied pasture-raised birds.

Because his on-site slaughtering plant is only for poultry and rabbits, Mr. Dines said, he uses the meat processor Van Wie Natural Foods in Hudson, N.Y., to make his beef hot dogs, buying some meat from them to supplement his own.

Richard H. Van Wie, the owner of the company, said he had made sausages for Mr. Dines, but not hot dogs. When told this, Mr. Dines said his hot dogs were made at another plant, which he would not name.

“I’m not a political person,” Mr. Dines said. “I’m trying to make a living. I’m trying to keep from losing the farm and not bother anyone.”

To prevent cheating, Greenmarket has an extensive oversight system, Mr. Hurwitz said. Farmers must hand in crop plans, submit to regular inspections of their farms, and allow inventories of their stalls to make sure they are selling only what they grow or raise. When it comes to prepared foods like pickles, jams and baked goods, he said, “you’re required to source locally whatever can be sourced locally.” Dairies are allowed to buy some milk and cream from local farmers to make cheese, butter and yogurt.

On a sunny afternoon last week at Mr. Dines’s farm on 130 acres in Oak Hill, turkeys pecked in a dark, fetid-smelling barn, rabbits lay on their bellies in stacked wire cages, and farmhands poured a box of fluffy yellow chicks into a lighted enclosure. Outside, ducks and geese waddled in a gravel driveway, sheep clustered in a shady corner of a meadow, and three snoring sows suckled piglets in dilapidated pens oozing with mud from a recent rain. A pile of meat coolers in a trailer told of Mr. Dines’s fall from grace at the Greenmarket.

The plant manager, Jon Payton, said there were 1,000 chickens, 500 chicks and 560 turkeys on the farm, but those numbers could not be confirmed on the brief visit. He said about 60 to 70 lambs were boarding with a nearby farmer.

Mr. Dines said he had no plans to reapply to Greenmarket. Organizers of the Brooklyn Flea did not invite Mr. Dines back after hearing of his troubles with the Greenmarket.

For now, Mr. Dines said, he is pursuing business with large institutions, as well as direct sales through his Web site. He also participates in community-supported agriculture programs, where he makes weekly deliveries to customers, and he sells to restaurants. He declined to identify the restaurants or to quantify how much meat he sells.

“It seems like everyone wants to be in my business,” he said. “I have to do what I have to do to make a living. Nobody’s giving me nothing. Except a hard time.”
930 2008-07-30 Rick Blatstein, the chairman of OTG Management, a Philadelphia-based company that will own and operate the restaurants in Terminal 5, called the chef-driven restaurants “a gamble, a calculated risk.” But it is a risk that a growing number of airlines are willing to take when they renovate and upgrade their terminals.

“Passengers have the time,” said Stephen Freibrun, a principal with SH&E, an airport and aviation consulting company. “The airlines are interested in having them go from an average of $4.50 for fast food to $12.50 or more. They have to supplement their loss of revenues due to higher costs by growing non-travel revenues. The more money that’s generated in the terminal, the less fees the airlines have to pay.”

Mr. Freibrun said that well-known chefs can imbue airport dining with “a sense of theater.” As examples, he cited Todd English and Wolfgang Puck restaurants in the United States, and the new Gordon Ramsay restaurant, Plane Food, at Heathrow’s Terminal 5 near London. Dinner for two there can cost about $140 (although local critics have been underwhelmed).

American Airlines, at its new Terminal 8 at Kennedy Airport, is hoping to make a positive impression on what Ned Raynolds, a spokesman, called “the premium passenger,” namely the international and transcontinental flyer. “We are doing a lot at J.F.K. to serve them and cater to their diverse tastes,” he said. A martini bar and a clone of the O’Neals’ near Lincoln Center have already opened there, and Bobby Van’s Steakhouse is coming this fall, white tablecloths and all.

Jet Blue estimates that 20 million travelers will pass through Terminal 5 annually, and expects around 65 percent of them to buy something to eat or drink. Besides the chef-driven restaurants, their choices will include a steakhouse, a French bakery-cafe, a sports grill and a food hall with burgers, Asian food, pizza and kosher choices. Dining areas at the gates will be equipped with computer terminals so travelers can order food to be delivered to tables and check e-mail while waiting for flights.

Mr. Blatstein said that people who walk into an airport expect the worst. “We want to blow your mind,” he said.

It’s not a new idea. Back in 1953, Joseph Baum was hired by Restaurant Associates to create a restaurant at the newly opened Newark Airport. The Newarker set tables with fine china and linen. By 1955 it was turning a profit. But those were the days when flying was a special occasion: women wore stockings and heels and men put on jackets. The Newarker became a destination restaurant where 90 percent of the customers were nontravelers.

The Terminal 5 restaurants will be located behind the security checkpoints, making it impossible for anyone who is not taking a Jet Blue flight to dine there. Mr. Blatstein said that most travelers have 60 to 90 minutes to spare once they have cleared security. “We’d like to see dining at the terminal become part of a traveler’s plans, especially if your plane is delayed,” he said.

Mr. Freibrun said that, in the past, travelers had a fear of flying. Then, after Sept. 11, they had fears about security. “Now,” he said, “they have a fear of being left hungry on a plane that doesn’t serve food or is delayed somehow.”
931 2008-07-30 He was hard-pressed to explain why he started collecting 10 years ago, indicating it had something to do with Salvatore Calabrese, the London barman, and a water-damaged book by Jerry Thomas known variously as “The Bar-Tender’s Guide,” “How to Mix Drinks” or “The Bon-Vivant’s Companion.” (He will publish the book later this year; it’s the only one in the pipeline that is widely available from other sources.) But his explanation for republishing some of the books was simple: “I wanted to make the information in them available again.”

Bartenders and cocktail geeks, more so than adherents of any other epicurean discipline, seem drawn to a dialogue with the past.

David Wondrich, Robert Hess and other cocktail authorities helped Mr. Boehm select the first five books to reproduce, and contributed introductions.

The books are gems, less for their recipes, which are mix of arcane curiosities and the earliest documentation of cocktails we still drink today, than for their tone and approach.

C. F. Lawlor’s “The Mixicologist,” the 1899 version, contains a stern list of “Don’ts for Young Bartenders,” including the advice: “Don’t be too positive about things. You may be in error.”

“Barflies and Cocktails,” written by Harry McElhone (the Harry of the famous Harry’s New York Bar in Paris) and extensively illustrated in a cartoonish style by Wynn Holcomb, conveys a whiskey-addled sense of zany humor that seems tied to the Roaring Twenties, when the book was first published. The running conceit of the book has to do with the fictional association of International Bar Flies, the rules of which include the admonition that, “Those seeing cerise cats with purple ears should keep it to themselves.”

Harry Johnson’s “Bartenders’ Manual and Guide for Hotels and Restaurants” is perhaps the rarest and most vital of the lot. Though the source material dates from 1900 (the first edition came out in 1882, but Mr. Johnson revised it, and Mr. Boehm elected to reproduce the latest edition of the book), there has not been as thorough a book published about every aspect of the bar business. It includes “A Tip to the Beginner — How to Make Money” and “Hints About Hiring a Boy to the Business” as well as engrossing line drawings of everything from Mr. Johnson and his considerable mustache to the details of the design of bars in the golden age of the cocktail.

The other two books are “The Modern Bartender’s Guide” by O. H. Byron and “Recipes of American and Other Iced Drinks,” a British book published in 1902 by Farrow & Jackson to promote its barware.

And while the very availability of these books is notable, the meticulous attention to detail applied to reprinting them adds another level of appeal: they are desirable as objects. These little time machines between two covers are the finest reproductions of old cocktail books that have been published.

Mud Puddle’s facsimiles are nearly identical to their source material. The only noticeable difference between the 2008 edition of the “Mixicologist” and the original is the new publisher’s stamp on the spine and the missing magic that only a century or so of aging can add to a book.

Mr. Boehm frets about the slight details that changes in book printing technology have made it impossible for him to duplicate: he could not find paper as thin as was used 100 years ago, so his books are slightly thicker than the originals; the corners on his edition of Harry Johnson’s book are rounder than they were on the 1900 edition. It is clear he loses sleep over these things.

It is also clear that these books are labors of love. Mud Puddle’s main business is high-volume (tens of thousands of copies), low-price “book plus” products, like a book about how to make sushi packaged with a bamboo mat, or a book on knitting that comes with needles and yarn. The cocktail books have been printed in 1,500-copy batches and are available at Amazon.com and cocktailkingdom.com.

Mr. Boehm said he hoped to break even on the books. If they catch on, Mud Puddle will be able to do larger print runs and lower the prices, currently $24.95 to $29.95.

But until that happens, he will press on. Mud Puddle will reissue other titles later this year, including David A. Embury’s “Fine Art of Mixing Drinks,” one of the most literate and enjoyable books written about cocktails.

Appreciative bartenders, who will not have to spend a month’s tips on eBay to secure copies of these books, may want to consult the toasts section of “Barflies and Cocktails” for a “toast to publishers” to celebrate: “Here’s to the man who disseminates brains; when the quality’s bad it’s the Devil that gains.”
932 2008-07-30 The family was a hothouse that really did generate an unusual amount of neurosis and odd behavior. And yet the Jameses were hardly “dysfunctional,” as we normally understand the term, but rather an extraordinarily close family, whose members to a certain degree mythologized one another and especially Henry Sr., or “sacred old Father,” as William called him.

Henry Sr., was a bundle of contradictions — part genius, part blowhard — who never really figured out his place in the world. He was a radical thinker who at least notionally espoused free love but was also an antifeminist, a doting father but also a stern and exacting one. He never had a job (his father was an Irish immigrant who made a fortune investing in Albany real estate) and became an alcoholic as a teenager, partly from trying to medicate himself after losing a leg in a fire.

His drinking has never been a secret — he announced it himself in an editorial he wrote for The New York Tribune, promising to quit — but Mr. Fisher thinks that the problem was much worse than other biographers have acknowledged and that it profoundly affected his offspring. He never really shows how, however, except for talking about “coping mechanisms.”

Far from crippling his family, Henry Sr. seems in many ways to have empowered it — or at least the two oldest children, William and Henry. There was a weird two-tier system in which much less was expected of the two younger boys, Bob and Wilkie, who were packed off to the Civil War, for example. The two oldest were kept closely at home, where they embarked on a decades-long sibling rivalry that in the long run was probably the making of William, spurred on to match his younger brother’s success.

Henry Sr. took all his children to Europe in 1855, where they lived for years, wandering from hotel to hotel in search of what he called “sensuous education.” They learned languages, visited museums, explored cities. Family meals were lively, raucous and competitive, and the children were encouraged to speak their minds. Alice, in fact, became so clever and original that she probably doomed herself: in the male-dominated world she was exposed to, there was no place for such a woman.

The Jameses are a huge and complicated story, and to tell it Mr. Fisher goes in for a certain amount of novelization, mind reading and needlessly perky writing. But he keeps all the balls juggling, gives fair and sympathetic time to everyone, and along the way provides a lively and detailed social history of the period and its houses, museums, steamships, restaurants, department stores and hotels. Even the invention of the Hershey’s Kiss gets a mention.

And in evoking this rich context Mr. Fisher drops a clue that helps explain the Jameses as well as any other. In the end they were less a contemporary family than creatures of their time, propelled into the modern world while still carrying a load of Victorian baggage. There was a lot they simply could not say, even to one another. Mr. Fisher makes too much of Henry’s famous late style as a symptom of concealment and involution. But it’s true that unlike us, Henry had no language for what was wrong with him, so rather than spend a lot of time talking about it, he made art instead.
933 2008-07-30 “The market’s expectations have changed very rapidly and unexpectedly,” said Edward Morse, the chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers. “The market went out of control on the upside. But market participants realized there was much more demand destruction than had been thought even a month ago, that inventories are building up quickly, and that, in fact, more supplies are coming onto the market.”

As a result of looser market fundamentals, many analysts believe energy prices could keep falling through the end of the year. The president of the OPEC oil cartel, Chakib Khelil, said Tuesday that oil might drop as low as $70 a barrel.

Whether that actually happens will depend on the course of the American economy and its impact on the rest of the world. How long will the American slowdown last and what effect will it have on emerging markets like China, which have accounted for the bulk of the growth in oil demand?

Many experts warn that a hurricane hitting the oil-producing region of the Gulf Coast or renewed tensions in the Persian Gulf could easily push prices back up again, quickly.

Only a few weeks ago, Israel conducted war games and Iran tested new missiles, renewing fears of a flare-up in the Middle East, and pushing oil prices to a record of $145.29 a barrel. The recent shift in American policy regarding Iran, with an emphasis on diplomacy, helped deflate some of the geopolitical risk premium that had been built into oil prices.

“The one piece of good news we’ve had recently has been the drop in oil prices,” said Bernard Baumohl, the chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. “But there is nothing that tells us with any certainty that this decline can be sustained. Just as abruptly as they have fallen, oil prices can rebound because of geopolitical factors.”

Gasoline peaked at a nationwide average of $4.11 a gallon on July 17. Since then, retail gasoline prices have been falling briskly, to a nationwide average of $3.94 on Tuesday, according to AAA, the automobile group. Still, that is $1.05 a gallon higher than at the same time last year, when gasoline sold for $2.89 a gallon.

Natural gas settled at $9.22 a thousand cubic feet on Tuesday, down from a high of about $13.58 at the beginning of the month, as a cooler-than-expected summer helped curb the use of gas to generate electricity. That has led to a build-up of commercial inventories.

The drop in oil prices has come as gasoline demand in the United States fell sharply in recent months, thanks to Americans cutting back on their driving. Gasoline consumption fell 3.6 percent in the week ending July 18, compared with the year-earlier period, according to the Energy Department. Americans drove 9.6 billion fewer miles in May compared with the same period last year, a 3.7 percent decline and the biggest-ever drop at that time of year, the Transportation Department said on Monday.

“People are waking up to the fact that prices have an impact on demand and that what happens in the U.S. gasoline market has a worldwide impact,” said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. The United States is the world’s largest oil consumer, and its gas market alone is bigger than the entire Chinese oil market, he said.

“As a result of the economic slowdown and high prices, we’ve probably seen the peak in American gasoline demand, at least for some years,” he said.

Americans remain unhappy about the state of the economy. But consumer confidence rose slightly this month compared with last, according to a report released on Tuesday by the Conference Board, a private research group. That was mainly because of the declining gasoline prices, said Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.

One big question is what will happen to Chinese oil demand.

China has been the biggest driver of global energy demand in recent years, experts said. From 2000 to 2007, China’s energy demand grew by 65 percent, contributing to a 12 percent jump in global oil demand. In that period, China accounted for a third of the total increase in oil consumption around the world.

This year, Chinese oil demand is expected to grow by 5.6 percent, thanks mostly to increases in gasoline and diesel consumption. This growth would account for nearly half of the rise in oil consumption worldwide, which is expected to reach nearly 900,000 barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency.

But that too may be changing, some economists said.

“We have seen the economies of emerging countries, like China, India, and Brazil begin to slow down,” Mr. Baumohl said. “That should begin to soften the price of oil.”
934 2008-07-30 Two trouble spots in the economy showed little sign of improvement in the last few months, as home prices fell again in May and consumer confidence stagnated in July, according to a pair of reports issued Tuesday.

Home prices, already falling at the steepest rate in two decades, tumbled again in May, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index, a widely watched survey that measures prices in 20 major metropolitan areas. Prices were down 15.8 percent from May 2007, including a 0.9 percent one-month drop this May.

The 10-city price index, which dates to 1988, dropped 16.9 percent for the year, its sharpest decline on record.

All 20 cities measured by the index showed annual declines in home values, and 10 cities have suffered double-digit percentage declines in the last year. Miami and Las Vegas have fared the worst, with prices in each city dropping more than 28 percent since May 2007.

There were some signs that the decline has started to abate. Prices in seven regions, including Boston, Dallas and Charlotte, N.C., improved in May, some for the second consecutive month. Boston, for example, was up 1.05 percent in May, though values are still 6.2 percent below where they were a year ago.

The report “does seem to suggest the rate of decline of existing home prices is slowing,” Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note. “To be sure, prices are still falling very rapidly, and there is no prospect of any rebound this year and probably next, but a slower rate of fall is welcome nonetheless.”
935 2008-07-30 The McCain campaign said that Mr. Obama had been taking shots at Mr. McCain for some time, and that Mr. McCain was simply trying to draw the contrast between the two candidates.

Mark Salter, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain, noted that the two candidates addressed the same Hispanic groups three times this summer, and that at the first two appearances Mr. McCain declined to criticize Mr. Obama, only to be criticized. (“He suggested in his speeches here and there that I turned my back on comprehensive reform out of political necessity,” Mr. McCain complained.) The third time, he said, before La Raza, Mr. McCain decided to “correct the record.”

“There are no cheap shots,” Mr. Salter said. “There are honest differences between them. They want to take the country in different directions, and we’ll talk about it.”

Mr. McCain drew contrast after contrast with Mr. Obama at a town-hall-style meeting in a high school gym here on Tuesday, though he took a more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger tone.

“Senator Obama is an impressive speaker,” he said. “And the beauty of his words has attracted many people, especially among the young, to his campaign. I applaud his talent and his success. All Americans, all Americans should be proud of his accomplishment. I know I am.

“My concern with Senator Obama is on big issues, and small issues, what he says and what he does are often two different things. And that he doesn’t seem to understand that the policies he offers would make our problems harder, not easier to solve.”

Mr. McCain went on to criticize Mr. Obama for seeking pork-barrel spending (“nearly a million dollars for every working day he’s been in office”), accused him of wanting to raise taxes, painted him as an obstructionist on energy policy, rapped him for abandoning his pledge to take public financing, and criticized his Iraq policy.

Some of his lines of attack have been accused of being misleading. Mr. McCain, for instance, said Mr. Obama had voted in the Senate “for tax hikes that would have impacted those making $32,000 a year.” FactCheck.org, a nonpartisan Web site, said the vote was on a budget resolution to raise taxes on people making $41,500 a year; the $32,000 figure, it said, was the amount of taxable income those people had.

An advertisement criticized Mr. Obama for the high price of gas. “Who can you thank for rising prices at the pump?” an announcer intoned, as chants of “Obama, Obama” were heard.

Dan Schnur, who worked on Mr. McCain’s 2000 campaign and is the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, said the McCain campaign seemed to be drawing on lessons from watching the Democratic primary fight between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.

“It wasn’t until the last weeks of the primary that Clinton and her campaign really took the gloves off on Obama, and as it happens it was too little, too late,” he said. “Obama is at his best when he talks from the mountaintop, and Clinton showed that the best hope for an opponent is to pull him back down to earth. McCain’s campaign quickly decided not to wait as long as she did.”

But some Republicans say privately that Mr. McCain, by trying to make the election a referendum on Mr. Obama, risks ceding control of some of the narrative by constantly reacting.

Mike Murphy, a Republican media consultant who worked on Mr. McCain’s 2000 campaign, said that while the campaign needed to balance positive messages about Mr. McCain with negative ones about Mr. Obama, he thought it should ultimately be more about what Mr. McCain would do than Mr. Obama.

“I think the campaign does have to be careful about its tone,” Mr. Murphy said. “A pure attack tone could be perilous.”
936 2008-07-30 A new study by the Advertising Project at the University of Wisconsin shows that in terms of paid advertising, Mr. McCain has so far been able to nearly match Mr. Obama’s volume with help from the Republican Party. But the early advertising suggests a heightened ad war this election cycle: Together, the two sides have combined to spend more than $50 million already on general-election commercials, running roughly 30 percent more spots than President Bush and Senator John Kerry had at a comparable point in 2004.

And as Mr. Obama’s campaign begins to intensify its advertising drive, including a planned campaign during the Olympics in August, television’s receptivity is a welcome boost for Mr. McCain.

“For McCain, it’s the cheapest and most efficient way to keep himself in the game when he’s up against a candidate who’s essentially going to have unlimited funds,” said Kenneth M. Goldstein, director of the Advertising Project.

New television monitoring services, put to use by The New York Times this week, vividly illustrate just how wide an audience Mr. McCain’s latest spot reached at relatively little cost.

The spot accuses Mr. Obama of canceling a planned visit to wounded American troops during a visit to Germany last week because it “seems the Pentagon wouldn’t allow him to bring cameras.” Mr. Obama said he had no plans to bring cameras. He canceled his visit amid what he said was concern he would appear to be using wounded troops as pawns during the overtly political leg of his trip.

As an announcer says, “He made time to go to the gym, but canceled a visit with wounded troops,” the spot shows Mr. Obama playing basketball — without noting that it was during a visit he made to active-duty troops in Kuwait earlier in the week.

Mr. McCain’s campaign released the advertisement on Saturday afternoon, and it was shown on television news before it made its first appearance as a paid commercial, during “Saturday Night Live,” in Denver. The late local news on the NBC affiliate there, KUSA, showed much of Mr. McCain’s commercial in a report about its coming run. “He’s putting it in front of your eyes here in Colorado before anywhere else,” said the anchor, Carrie McClure. The report included a brief rebuttal from Mr. Obama.

The spot got extensive coverage on “Face the Nation” and “Fox News Sunday” the following morning. Those programs are available on scores of stations. And the Web sites of The New York Times and other news outlets posted links to it.

Yet, by the end of the day, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group, it had actually run all of six times as a paid advertisement.

The free Sunday morning coverage also showed the limits of relying on news programs to carry advertising: A guest on “Face the Nation,” Senator Chuck Hagel, the Nebraska Republican who traveled with Mr. Obama abroad, called the spot “inappropriate”; Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said on “Fox News Sunday” that the ad was “beneath John McCain.”

Similarly, on MSNBC, the chief foreign affairs correspondent, Andrea Mitchell, said Monday: “Obama had no intention of bringing cameras with him. I was there; I can vouch for that.”

Nevertheless, the advertisement ran in part or in full roughly two dozen times within the news coverage of MSNBC and the Fox News Channel, and less frequently on CNN, according to a review on ShadowTV, a database of programming on cable and nearly 100 television stations.

Early Tuesday morning Brooke Wagner, an anchor at the CBS affiliate in Denver — where the ad first ran Saturday night, on the NBC affiliate — again introduced the spot. “A new TV commercial from John McCain is criticizing Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama,” Ms. Wagner reported, before showing much of the ad.
937 2008-07-30 TRADE TALKS FALL APART World trade talks collapsed in Geneva after seven years of negotiations, indicating that the ability of the United States to dictate policy is coming to an end.       A LITTLE GOOD ECONOMIC NEWS The price of crude oil has fa...
938 2008-07-31 As many as four vocational schools will be opened by September 2009 to serve as models for the rest of the city....
939 2008-07-31 This is not the first time that Paris Hilton and Britney Spears find themselves at the center of an unauthorized video. But, for the record, no one asked permission to feature them in the withering McCain campaign ad....
940 2008-07-31 Matt Lauer, the "Today" show's co-host since 1997, will team with Bob Costas to anchor the opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics from Beijing on Aug. 8....
941 2008-07-31 The Carlyle Group said Thursday that it has begun liquidating its Blue Wave hedge fund, amid big losses since its inception last year. It is the second major black eye for the giant alternative-asset manager this year. In March, the firm liquidate...
942 2008-07-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
943 2008-07-31 > Defying gravity-and logic-prices for "super-prime" properties in central London continue to rise, according to the latest data from Knight Frank, the property firm. Although most of London recorded a slight drop, the value of houses priced above...
944 2008-07-31 The Democratic candidate sets out stark opposition to offshore drilling, which his opponent favors....
945 2008-07-31 The McCain campaign's accusation that Senator Barack Obama is "playing the race card" brings the race issue out in the open while allowing the McCain team to say it has not made the first move -- a strategy we saw to some degree in the Democratic ...
946 2008-07-31 It's earnings week for energy companies, and with oil trading near record highs, one might imagine that Big Oil would be swimming in money. But those high oil prices can hurt as much as they help, especially for so-called "integrated oil companies...
947 2008-07-31 A young woman at a town-hall-style meeting here asked John McCain if he had "flip-flopped" from his earlier pledge to refrain from mudslinging. Updated....
948 2008-07-31 The statement was in response to remarks Barack Obama made yesterday warning that Republicans would try to scare voters by pointing out "he doesn't look like all those other presidents on the dollar bills."...
949 2008-07-31 Since 2003, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (take a breath) has been sponsoring "Key Ingredients: America by Food."...
950 2008-07-31 An image from "IN/OUT," a multimedia project by the artist Chris Moukarbel now showing at Art In General We here at T are generally allergic to magazine "in-out" lists–unless, of course, they are totally insane, self-consciously inane, and the t...
951 2008-07-31 McCormick & Company, a leading seasonings retailer, has agreed to sell Season-All line as part of a deal to gain antitrust approval for its $605 million deal to buy Lawry's Seasoned Salt from Unilever. The Federal Trade Commission said that Morton...
952 2008-07-31 Bill Miller, the Legg Mason stock picker, said on Wednesday financial stocks appear to have hit a "capitulation low" in mid-July, but held off endorsing them for investors. Mr. Miller, whose main Value Trust fund has rebounded in July but is still...
953 2008-07-31 A former Credit Suisse broker who is the of a fraud investigation into an auction rate securities scam may have fled to his native Bulgaria, The Wall Street Journal reported. The move comes as prosecutors prepare to bring criminal charges in a pro...
954 2008-07-31 Despite a sharp rise in oil prices Wednesday, stocks rallied after the promise of more support from the Federal Reserve gave investors confidence that financial firms would work through their problems. The Dow Jones industrials rose 186.13 points,...
955 2008-07-31 A federal appeals court dealt what was likely to be the final blow to the ill-fated prosecution of 15 New York Stock Exchange specialists Wednesday by overturning the securities fraud convictions of two of the floor supervisors. Skip to next parag...
956 2008-07-31 THE fifth annual Idea House, a show house presented by Hamptons Cottages and Gardens magazine, opened last Saturday in Sagaponack, N.Y. What began as an 1860 farmhouse called Sunset Hill has been doubled in size — to 6,300 square feet — with a modern addition by Peter Sabbeth, a Sag Harbor developer who runs a company called ModernGreenHome. According to Mr. Sabbeth, the entire property, which also includes a pool, a pool house and a studio, is environmentally sustainable.

But “the whole green philosophy is very complicated,” he added, admitting that “the greenest thing to do is not to build a new house.” After that, though, he said, “the greenest thing you can do is make a house use less energy.” Solar panels on the roof will produce about 45 percent of the house’s electricity, he said, and heating and cooling is geothermal.

Mr. Sabbeth worked with Seth Howe, an architect; Barbara Dixon, the magazine’s editorial director; and Kyle Timothy Blood, the project’s design director. Ms. Dixon and Mr. Blood chose 23 designers, including Jamie Drake, whose dining room is literally green, and David Bergman, an architect who embedded recycled glass pebbles in cement for a bathroom floor.

Unlike show houses that have clashing visions, Ms. Dixon said, this one is designed around a single idea. As green-minded as it is, though, it still had to be “a marriage of luxury and sustainability,” Mr. Blood said. “After all, this is the Hamptons, and people do want their comforts.”

Open Thursday through Sunday through Aug. 24 at 151 Sagg Main Street in Sagaponack, N.Y.; admission is $30; (646) 723-7501 or hcandg.com.
957 2008-07-31 A new Blu-ray player from LG can also be used to view movies over the Internet from Netflix. The cost of adding this feature is almost nothing, an LG executive said....
958 2008-07-31 Libya has released two Swiss citizens who had been held for 11 days after the arrest in Geneva of Hannibal Qaddafi, the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Mr. Qaddafi and his wife were arrested on July 15 after two employees accused them of mistreatment. They were allowed to return to Libya after posting bail two days later. The two Swiss citizens were detained on July 19, accused of violating Libyan immigration laws. The Libyan government ordered Swiss companies to close offices in Libya and warned Swiss citizens not to travel there.

Correction: August 15, 2008 

 A report by Bloomberg News in the World Briefing column on July 31 about friction between Libya and Switzerland after the arrest in Switzerland of a son of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, misidentified the government that had ordered Swiss companies to close their offices in Libya. It was Libya’s government, not Switzerland’s.
959 2008-07-31 The Coast Guard said the Mississippi River had been opened again after crews cleaned up about 2,500 gallons of oil that spilled Wednesday during removal of a barge that sank last week after a collision with a tanker. Capt. Lincoln Stroh, Coast Guard captain of the Port of New Orleans, said the spill happened after what he described as a “burp” occurred, when the level of the river fell, shifting the barge. Captain Stroh also said it looked as if one of the barge’s three tanks remained intact, meaning the spill last week could be one-third less than the original estimate of 419,000 gallons.
960 2008-07-31 “It is a very tightly knit community,” a federal prosecutor, Jillian B. Berman, told the judge. “People know each other; they know their families.

“This is confirmation that someone has cooperated,” she said, adding that having it “circulated and leaking out into the street is just dangerous.”

The trial of Mr. Bright ended abruptly, for unrelated reasons, just a few days after it began. But until that point, the case offered a striking look at an issue that often arises but is rarely debated in such stark terms.

The question typically surfaces in trials involving violent gangs or narcotics organizations, when the defendants and witnesses have been involved in the same illegal activity, and come from the same neighborhoods. The issue was considered particularly serious in Mr. Bright’s case, prosecutors made clear, because he was accused in a retaliatory killing.

Typically, the discovery materials that are turned over in criminal trials include ballistics information, fingerprints and crime-scene photographs. But prosecutors must also give the defense a different category of information, known as 3500 materials, which are the prior statements of witnesses who are expected to testify against a defendant.

The statements are essential tools for cross-examination. If a witness tells a different story on the stand, the defense can use the prior statement to try to impeach his credibility.

Prosecutors said that judges in similar cases usually agreed that defendants could not take such material back to their cells and review it without their lawyers present.

Richard B. Zabel, a former head of the narcotics unit in the United States attorney’s office, said that inmates in New York had developed highly effective communications systems. In the past, he said, members of the Latin Kings gang, for example, would meet in the prison chapel, and transmit messages through Bibles.

“I think prosecutors lose a lot of sleep making sure that people who are willing to step forward and help the judicial system don’t get hurt for doing that,” he said.

One of Mr. Bright’s lawyers, Avraham C. Moskowitz, said in an interview that he understood the prosecutors’ concerns, but that they were misplaced in the case of Mr. Bright, who maintains his innocence.

“I’m not going to impugn their motives,” Mr. Moskowitz said. “I just think that they’re wrong.”

A prosecution witness said that Mr. Bright ran three barbershops in the Bronx, and that he used the shops as a base for his illegal activities.

Mr. Bright, the prosecutors said, had controlled a heroin and crack cocaine business at 681 Courtlandt Avenue in the Bronx. They say he used “pitchers” to make hand-to-hand sales on the street, and also supplied drugs to other dealers in the neighborhood. At times, business was so good that the drug operation was open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, prosecutors told the jury.

The government also likened Mr. Bright’s tactics to those of an unscrupulous businessman: He would use threats of brutality against customers and rival drug dealers who threatened his turf. And he had an enforcer, whose job was to scare away other dealers.

In 1999, a crack dealer shot Mr. Bright. The dealer was acquitted in the shooting, and prosecutors said that Mr. Bright paid to have someone fatally shoot the dealer in 2002.

And it was this act of retaliation that, prosecutors say, underscored the risk of letting him keep the witness statements in his cell in the Metropolitan Correctional Center.

They asked that the judge, William H. Pauley III, order Mr. Bright’s lawyers to stay with him in the jail as he reviewed the 3500 material. They also requested assurances that no documents be left behind.

Mr. Moskowitz, the defense lawyer, said that the concerns were “baseless speculation,” and that the government was “perfectly capable” of protecting its cooperating witnesses.

He argued that Mr. Bright was “literally fighting for his freedom for the rest of his life” and needed the opportunity to review the material “in depth and at length.”

“He will have a whole bunch of things that he will be able to tell me about,” Mr. Moskowitz added.

Judge Pauley asked if the government could present specific evidence that Mr. Bright had attempted to intimidate or harm a witness.

“He has certainly reached out,” Ms. Berman said, citing a note that Mr. Bright had sent to one of the cooperating witnesses. The witness “did not feel comfortable receiving that note,” Ms. Berman said.

But the judge said that prosecutors needed to provide more specific proof that an actual threat existed. He said that Mr. Bright could take the materials to his cell over the weekend, but that each document had to be accounted for on Monday morning.

On July 21, before the trial began, Mr. Moskowitz looked through the materials in the folders and told the judge that every document had been returned. Later that day, a more senior prosecutor, David M. Rody, renewed the argument against allowing Mr. Bright to keep the material in jail. He noted that there were photocopying machines in the correctional center’s law library to which prisoners had access, and that copies of the 3500 material could be made.

“In the prisons, seeing it in black and white, seeing it in a prosecutor’s notes, seeing it in a cooperation agreement, that kind of stuff is, in our mind, what is really dangerous and deadly,” he said.

Judge Pauley denied the prosecution request, but he admonished Mr. Bright not to make copies, and told the defense lawyer, Mr. Moskowitz, that every single page had to be accounted for.

On July 23, Judge Pauley declared a mistrial after learning that a lawyer who worked in Mr. Moskowitz’s firm had once represented a witness in the case, setting up a possible conflict of interest.

But before the case was officially concluded, Mr. Moskowitz and a colleague spent more than an hour inspecting the documents that Mr. Bright had been carrying. “Your honor, we were able to account for all of the pages,” Mr. Moskowitz told the judge.

Judge Pauley assigned a new lawyer to the case, and asked the parties to convene one more time to choose a new trial date. The story would continue. “I will see you all tomorrow for the next chapter,” he said.
961 2008-07-31 Pelfrey has been efficient with his pitch count, lowering his average per inning to 15.7 over his last nine starts while issuing fewer than two walks per start. Warthen said he did not expect to monitor Pelfrey any closer than he would any other starter, and that he did not expect to place any pitch count limitations or other restrictions on Pelfrey during his remaining starts.

Manager Jerry Manuel said, “Because this is his first full major league season, we have to kind of be guarded in that regard.”

This issue, combined with the uncertainty surrounding John Maine and Pedro Martínez, has provoked speculation that the Mets might try to acquire a starter before Thursday’s 4 p.m. nonwaiver trade deadline. But team officials were pessimistic Wednesday evening about making a deal of any kind, and starting pitching ranks third on their list of priorities.

They are still pursuing bullpen help, particularly a reliever who has a track record of success against both left- and right-handed hitters, but teams’ asking prices remained too high for the Mets. Aaron Heilman’s two dominant innings Tuesday encouraged team officials, although they were concerned about Duaner Sánchez’s drop in velocity, which they attribute to a lack of conditioning.

Sánchez has dealt with weight problems before. In March 2007, he reported to camp heavier than his listed weight of 210 pounds, which irked team officials and teammates who questioned his work ethic. He reported to spring training in February in better shape, but he has since gained weight. Manuel mentioned last week that Sánchez had scaled back on his conditioning after being hit in the knee by a batted ball earlier this month, but the Mets had been concerned about it before then.

In their pursuit of a corner outfielder, their interest in Seattle’s Raúl Ibáñez has waned, particularly because the Mariners continue to ask for the prized pitching prospect Jon Niese. If Seattle’s asking price drops, the Mets may yet swoop in because they were less certain of when Ryan Church will return than they were when Wednesday dawned.

The Mets decided that Church, who ran in the outfield and hit outside, will join the team in Houston, rather than remain in Florida to begin a rehabilitation assignment because the medical staff was more comfortable monitoring him in Houston.

Church said he did not consider it a setback, although he will not be ready to be activated, as hoped, when the Mets open a homestand Tuesday.

“I felt good, very good,” Church told a pool reporter. “Truthfully, I’m glad I’m going with the team and the guys that know my situation, what’s going on with me, know my routine. There was no finger-pointing as to what day I was going to start playing games. I was going to go day-to-day and see what happens. You can’t go two days and then go straight into playing games again.”

Jerry Manuel said Luis Castillo, on the disabled list since July 3, would need about a week’s worth of minor league games before being reinstated. Castillo has not been cleared to play, although Manuel said he thought the strong play of Damion Easley and Argenis Reyes at second base would inspire Castillo when he returned.
962 2008-07-31 For the third consecutive day, questions about Favre dogged Coach Mike McCarthy and his players, who are clearly growing tired of the controversy and want it resolved. Rodgers patiently answered questions the first two days, but on Wednesday he never appeared in the locker room during the news media’s 30-minute interview session.

“The big picture is both sides want a resolution,” defensive end Aaron Kampman said. “This has gotten very drawn out on both sides. Quite frankly, I think everyone wants it to be over.”

Murphy flew to Hattiesburg on a private jet Tuesday night, a few hours after Favre’s reinstatement papers arrived at the N.F.L.’s office in New York.

The Packers have refused to release Favre, fearing he will sign with a National Football Conference North rival like the Minnesota Vikings, or trade him.

Favre arrived a few minutes late for the 9 a.m. meeting after working out with the Oak Grove High School football team, a report on The Hattiesburg American Web site said. Favre left the meeting at about 12:30 p.m., the report said, while Cook and Murphy kept talking.

“We’re going to do whatever Brett wants to do,” Cook told the newspaper. “And right now his intention is to go back to Green Bay and play football.”

Packers officials fear Favre’s presence will further disrupt a camp that has drawn much more news media attention than usual.

At least three Web sites imploring the Packers to bring back Favre as the starting quarterback have sprung up; one claimed it had gathered 11,000 names on a petition. A fan took out a quarter-page ad on Wednesday in the Green Bay Press-Gazette to publicize an open letter to the Packers’ management, asking for Favre’s return.

McCarthy said Favre would be welcomed back by the players and coaches if he reported.

“I can’t control what the perception is, but in the locker room, nobody dislikes Brett Favre,” McCarthy said after practice. “That’s not the opinion at all, and that’s not the opinion we want expressed. He was a big part of our history, and with him reinstating and coming here, he’ll be a big part of our future.”

But that future, McCarthy insisted, would be as Rodgers’s backup, although McCarthy conceded that some players may prefer Favre in a larger role.

“It’s there; I’m not going to deny that,” he said. “But our direction has been set.”

The Packers brought only three quarterbacks to camp, Rodgers — a fourth-year pro who has never started an N.F.L. game — and the rookies Brian Brohm and Matt Flynn. Brohm, a second-round pick from Louisville, is listed as Rodgers’s backup.

Murphy, who returned to Green Bay on Wednesday night, said in a statement: “Ted and Mike are going to continue to work on the football side of this issue. They have my full support.”
963 2008-07-31 A federal appeals court dealt what was likely to be the final blow to the ill-fated prosecution of 15 New York Stock Exchange specialists Wednesday by overturning the securities fraud convictions of two of the floor supervisors.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit threw out the convictions of the supervisors, Michael Hayward and Michael Stern, who were convicted in July 2006 and sentenced to six months in prison.

Mr. Hayward, 57, and Mr. Stern, 55, who had worked for Van der Moolen Specialists USA, had been accused of stealing $1 million apiece by skimming small amounts of money from stocks they oversaw.

Prosecutors concluded that the specialists had sometimes pocketed pennies for themselves or their firms from each trade by purchasing a stock and quickly flipping it for a higher price.

Defense lawyers had argued that it would be absurd for highly paid specialists, many of whom have seven-figure incomes, to try to make minuscule amounts of money each day in such a way. Instead, they said, prosecutors had highlighted innocent mistakes made on fewer than 1 percent of trades each specialist handled.

Prosecutors declined to comment on the ruling.

In February 2007, Judge Denny Chin in Manhattan reversed a jury verdict convicting David A. Finnerty, another specialist, saying that the government had failed to prove that Mr. Finnerty acted deceptively. That decision was upheld by the appeals court.

In tossing out the two convictions Wednesday, the appeals court said that lawyers on both sides had conceded that the evidence used to convict Mr. Finnerty was largely indistinguishable from the proof used to convict Mr. Hayward and Mr. Stern.
964 2008-07-31 PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Comcast reported on Wednesday an 8 percent profit increase in the second quarter, a seasonally slower quarter made tougher by a sluggish economy.

While the cable operator, the nation’s largest, lost basic video subscribers in the quarter, the losses were in line with or fewer than analysts had expected. Comcast, also among the nation’s largest Internet service providers, took market share from rival phone companies, which reported much weaker broadband gains.

Free cash flow more than tripled, to $1.2 billion, as capital expenditures fell by 20 percent.

Investors cheered the news, driving up shares of Comcast 89 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $20.07. Comcast, which is based here, posted second-quarter net income of $632 million, or 21 cents a share, compared with $588 million, or 19 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial were expecting, on average, slightly higher profit of 23 cents a share on revenue of $8.54 billion.

Comcast lost 138,000 basic subscribers in the quarter but added 320,000 digital customers. Total video revenue was up 3 percent, to $4.73 billion. Video customers on average paid $63.98 a month, up 4 percent.

High-speed Internet added 278,000 new subscribers, down 18 percent from 2007. Revenue was up 10 percent, to $1.8 billion, even though the average customer bill of $42.01 a month represented a 3 percent decline year-over-year. The increase in new customers more than offset lower prices.
965 2008-07-31 Q. Do digital songs from Amazon.com work on an iPod, and if so, how do you get them onto the thing from the Web?

A. The song files for sale in Amazon’s Digital Download area can work on just about any portable player that can handle MP3 files — including Apple iPod, Microsoft Zune, Creative Zen and other devices.

These MP3 files are referred to as “D.R.M.-free” and do not contain the digital-rights management software used to restrict playback.

The easiest way to move purchased Amazon music to the iPod is to download the free Amazon MP3 Downloader from the site. This program works on Windows, Macintosh and Linux systems. There is a link to it on the main MP3 Downloads page.

Once a user installs Amazon’s helper software, the albums and songs bought from the store are automatically dumped into iTunes.

From there, they can be loaded onto an iPod like any other song, by automatically synching the player with the computer or manually copying them onto the iPod.

Users need the MP3 Downloader to buy multiple songs and whole albums at once. Users can skip installing it if they want to buy single songs one at a time. In that case, the MP3 files land on the desktop (or wherever Web downloads are configured to go). To get them into iTunes, just drag them onto the Library icon in the iTunes window.
966 2008-07-31 Call it the Wii effect — video games using motion-sensitive wireless controllers like the ones that come with Nintendo’s Wii game console. Vtech Electronics uses a similar device in its educational gaming console that came out this week, the V.Smile V-Motion Active Learning System.

Available at www.vtechkids.com for $70, the battery-powered device’s controller detects motion on three axes. (For the traditionalist among the preschool set, a joystick is included.) The child leans to the left or to the right, for instance, to play counting and spelling games like Street Race, Bobsled or Bouncing Ball. It comes with one game; additional games are $25, and titles from earlier V.Smile machines can be used. A $10 power cord adapter is recommended. This year’s model includes a U.S.B. drive that parents plug into their Windows computer. Once logged in, they can track their children’s scores and, presumably, their educational progress. The games are tedious but addicting, serving as a reminder that when learning facts, a spoonful of sugar (with a lean to the left, then to the right) can help the medicine go down. WARREN BUCKLEITNER
967 2008-07-31 Like many things carved by hand, “For Emma, Forever Ago” (Jagjaguwar), the debut album from the rural-minded indie rock outfit Bon Iver, is small, absorbing and rough-hewn, raising more questions than it answers. Largely self-recorded in a cabin in the Wisconsin woods by Justin Vernon (who is, in essence, Bon Iver), the album is brittle in sound, oblique in lyric and aching in tone. That it leaves some things unsaid is part of its allure.

On Tuesday night at the Bowery Ballroom Mr. Vernon solved the problem of how to render his very intimate songs in a biggish room by overlooking that they were ever in any way obscure. Here they were loud, sturdy and unfailingly beautiful, thanks in large part to Mr. Vernon’s backing troupe of three multitaskers — one, Mike Noyce, on baritone guitar and floor tom; another, Mark Paulson (also of the opening act Bowerbirds), alternating among a bass guitar, a violin and a snare; and a third, Sean Carey, with a drum kit and a keyboard.

Together, they were striking. “Flume” featured distended guitar passages and vicious snare-rim hits, and on “Skinny Love” all three backing band members came together on intricate drum arrangements. “Creature Fear” began deliberately, with Mr. Vernon singing in a high, pinched voice: “I was teased by your blouse/Spit out by your mouth.” But as the song progressed, it turned sinister, full of sharp snares and feedback, culminating in a dyspeptic churn that was in moments reminiscent of Glenn Branca.

And while Bon Iver’s complexity was compelling, the band was just as certain when stripped down. In the encore Mr. Vernon gathered his troops, as well as Phil Moore and Beth Tacular of Bowerbirds, at the front of the stage for a largely a cappella version of “Lovin’s for Fools” by the Nashville singer-songwriter Sarah Siskind. The night’s only flirtation with blatant sentimentality, it was elegant and devastating.

This unexpected dynamic range gave Bon Iver’s performance a theatrical splendor, even if Mr. Vernon himself was retreating in every way but his playing. The stage was in varying degrees of darkness throughout the show, and most of the time he was seated behind a setup that included six guitars, a keyboard and a neat row of effects pedals. It was as if to minimize himself; he is tall and broad, and in the moments when he did stand, he altered the show’s center of gravity.

Even “Re: Stacks,” the sole song that Mr. Vernon played alone, avoided narcissism. “This is not the sound of a new man/Or a crispy realization,” he sang. “It’s the sound of the unlocking and the lift away.”

Before beginning “The Wolves (Act I and II),” which closed the main set, Mr. Vernon instructed the audience to sing along with the refrain from the song’s second half. Then, after a gentle opening, the song was interrupted by a series of forceful, almost perverse drum jabs, which rattled like a series of gunshot blasts. In the cathartic crescendo, with a din of cymbals and snares threatening disruption, the crowd chanted on: “What might have been lost. What might have been lost. What might have been lost.”
968 2008-07-31 HARTFORD — Connecticut sued the nation’s leading credit rating firms Wednesday, accusing them of giving artificially low credit ratings to cities and towns that ultimately cost taxpayers millions of dollars in unnecessary insurance and higher interest payments.

The state attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, and the consumer protection commissioner, Jerry Farrell Jr., filed the lawsuit in Hartford Superior Court against the three agencies — the Moody’s Corporation, Fitch Inc., and the McGraw-Hill Companies, the parent company of Standard & Poor’s.

The lawsuit accuses the agencies of establishing a dual ratings system that gives lower credit ratings to bonds issued by states, municipalities and other public entities than corporate debt.

Mr. Blumenthal and several local officials said at a news conference that municipal finances were backed by the state, which will not permit bankruptcy or a municipality’s failure to pay its bills. The General Assembly in 2001 took over Waterbury’s finances and bailed the city out of a $60 million deficit.

A Moody’s spokesman, Anthony Mirenda, said Wednesday that company executives had received the lawsuit and were reviewing it.
969 2008-07-31 In fact, the business owners say they are glad to make adjustments before the next problem arises. “You can only see into the future so much,” said David Rosenthal of Rosenthal Plumbing in Santa Cruz, Calif.

Every six months or so Mr. Rosenthal tries crystal-ball gazing when it comes to fuel prices. If he’s wrong about how much it will rise — as he was this time with his recently published price list of services — then his company has to offset the difference. “I don’t want to inflate prices to where it’s uncomfortable to our client base,” he said.

So Rosenthal Plumbing adopted global positioning system technology this summer to track its fleet of service trucks so it can deploy them more efficiently and increase the number of jobs technicians can handle in a day. It will soon install mobile navigation devices in each truck so that his employees can find the fastest routes and save on fuel.

The high gas prices this year cemented a decision by Sam’s Limousine and Transportation in Houston to head in a new direction. It decided to sell its last two limousines, which seat eight. Replacing them are other vehicles to transport passengers, including party buses, sport utility vehicles and Town Cars.

The party buses seat 16 to 20 passengers and have, according to the company’s Web site, “soft, black leather couch seating, a mirrored stargazer ceiling, opera lighting, laser lighting, strobe lighting, DVD screens and a custom stereo and sound system.”

Ron Jones, vice president of the company, said he has recently seen “an increase in larger groups pitching in and going out together,” which makes the $130-an-hour rate affordable for a night out.

“This is something that’s been going on for a year now,” Mr. Jones said. “We have completely changed how we do business” to accommodate those groups by buying four buses this year.

What small-business owners say they fear is that they will lose customers because of higher costs, putting even more pressure on their bottom line. In a recent survey by American Express, the percentage of business owners reporting that they have lost sales, for reasons like an inability to deliver an order, has doubled to 35 percent from 17 percent last fall.

The semiannual telephone survey of a representative sample of 621 owners this spring found that small-business owners are being squeezed by higher energy and gasoline costs. A third said they had raised prices, up from 26 percent who had reported raising prices last fall.

RDS Delivery Service in New York, for instance, has raised prices because of fuel this year. If not for its moves to diversify the business over the last decade, it would be suffering the typical summer slowdown, plus the ill effects of rising fuel, which have hurt its small-business customers.

Larry Zogby, its president, said the family-owned company added document storage and retrieval 10 years ago as well as critical parts storage five years ago to its courier businesses. The newest service, pick and pack, allows customers to store goods in its warehouses and have RDS pack orders and deliver them upon request.

The idea of this diversification is to build a “longer and deeper relationship” with customers, he said, and of course, not be completely reliant on its main business — messenger and courier services in the New York region.

This summer, he said, he has seen more than a few smaller customers go out of business. One owner told him, “If you’re flat, you’re ahead of the game.”

The National Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation, which surveys more than 3,500 owners via mail every four years about problems of greatest concern, reported in June that energy costs, excluding electricity, were the second most pressing concern after the cost of health insurance. Energy jumped two spots from the earlier survey.

The primary energy expenditure for 38 percent of the companies responding to the survey was to operate vehicles. Most small businesses cannot afford to switch to more energy-efficient vehicles, the authors said.

“For four years, the economy provided a good, stable foundation for small business owners to do business,” said Mr. Phillips, author of the report with Holly Wade, a policy analyst. “But as it started to take a negative turn over the last several months, they felt the effects of rising costs of doing business as reflected by these results.”
970 2008-07-31 NASHVILLE (AP) — Nissan North America said Wednesday that it would offer buyouts to about 6,000 employees at the company’s two plants in Tennessee and eliminate a night shift at a plant because fuel prices and the economic downturn have slowed sales of trucks and sport utility vehicles.

The technicians and salaried employees at the assembly plant in Smyrna and the powertrain plant in Decherd will be offered a lump sum of $100,000 or $125,000 depending on tenure, as well as medical and car-buying benefits, the company said.

A Nissan spokesman, Fred Standish, said that even though the company was ending night-shift truck production effective Aug. 11, it did not plan any layoffs.

“We’ve never laid off anybody in Smyrna and we don’t intend to do it now,” Mr. Standish said.

He said employees on the shift to be eliminated were expected to either take buyouts or move into jobs that open as other workers take the buyouts.

“There’s going to be a lot of movement and realignment,” he said.

The two plants have about 1,200 more employees than they need, he said.
971 2008-07-31 Years ago, João Havelange, the head of FIFA at the time, and Juan Antonio Samaranch, then president of the International Olympic Committee, agreed to make the Olympic men’s soccer tournament a de facto under-23 world championship. FIFA promised to ensure that players 23 years old and under were available for the tournament, regardless of their club commitments. Samaranch was able to keep soccer in the Games and negotiated an exemption that enables each of the 16 teams in the tournament to include three overage players on their rosters.

In addition to Barcelona, Werder Bremen (Diego of Brazil) and Schalke (Rafinha of Brazil) have also refused to release their players and have taken their case to the C.A.S. Another Barcelona player, the Cameroonian striker Samuel Eto’o, said he would like to again play in the Olympics, but the club can withhold his release because he is older than 23. Eto’o was part of his country’s gold-medal winning team in the 2000 Sydney Olympics.

All three clubs appealed to FIFA’s Players’ Status Committee, which on Wednesday said the players must be released.

Barcelona will play Chivas Guadalajara of Mexico in Chicago on Sunday, then travel to New York to play the Red Bulls of Major League Soccer next Wednesday at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J.

HARDY APPEAL NEARS Jessica Hardy is expected to have her appeal of a positive doping test heard by the end of this week in Los Angeles, with a ruling possible as early as Friday. Hardy, a 21-year-old from Long Beach, Calif., tested positive for clenbuterol at the United States Olympic swimming trials in Omaha earlier this month.

She qualified for the team in the 100-meter breaststroke — an event in which she holds the American record — the 4 X 100 freestyle relay and the 50 freestyle. Hardy was tested for performance-enhancing drugs after each final at the trials. The results of her samples taken July 1 and July 6 were negative. Her sample after the 100 freestyle on July 4 was positive.

While declining to give a specific timetable, Hardy’s lawyer, Howard Jacobs, said Wednesday that her case “is certainly going to be resolved in time so that if she’s exonerated she’ll have time to compete.”

Hardy’s appeal will be heard by the American Arbitration Association. If the arbitrator rules against Hardy, she can appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.

She remained sequestered in Southern California this week, half a world removed from the rest of the United States swim team, which traveled last weekend to Singapore, its final pre-Games base.

The swimming competition in Beijing opens Aug. 9. Hardy’s first event, the 100 breaststroke, is Aug. 10. KAREN CROUSE

SECRET IS OUT Everything about the opening ceremonies of the Beijing Games, directed by the film director Zhang Yimou, is supposed to be a secret. Everyone involved has signed confidentiality agreements promising not to reveal anything about the event, which is suppose to be a spectacular surprise.

But a Korean television crew apparently got into the Olympic Stadium sometime over the past couple of days, shot some of the rehearsals and showed the footage on SBS in South Korea. It has also been posted on Korean and Chinese Web sites and on YouTube, no doubt angering Chinese officials. DAVID BARBOZA

SUIT CHANGE Nike will allow its swimmers to wear Speedo’s LZR Racer instead of its own suit at the Beijing Olympics. The Nike spokesman Dean Stoyer said Wednesday that the company felt it was fair to extend the offer it made in June, allowing its swimmers to wear Speedo’s suit at the United States Olympic trials.

Four swimmers who signed with Nike, which has some of the industry’s tightest controls on athlete contract agreements, are heading to the Olympics.

The LZR Racer has caused a stir this year. Since its launch in February, swimmers have broken dozens of world records and athletes not sponsored by Speedo want to wear it. It also caused a backlash. An Italian coach accused Speedo of technological doping. (AP)

CYCLIST WITHDRAWS The Tour de France runner-up Cadel Evans withdrew from the Olympics road time trial Thursday because of a knee injury.

Evans said he would undergo treatment this week before deciding if he will travel to Beijing to contest the road race. He will be replaced in the time trial by the three-time world champion Michael Rogers.

Evans, who finished second in the Tour de France for the second straight year, earlier played down suggestions he had sustained an injury that could threaten his Olympic campaign. After flying home to Switzerland this week, he said his knee became swollen and he visited an orthopedic specialist for precautionary scans. (AP)
972 2008-07-31 Mr. McCain’s campaign is now under the leadership of members of President Bush’s re-election campaign, including Steve Schmidt, the czar of the Bush war room that relentlessly painted his opponent, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, as effete, elite, and equivocal through a daily blitz of sound bites and Web videos that were carefully coordinated with Mr. Bush’s television advertisements.

The run of attacks against Mr. Obama over the last couple of weeks have been strikingly reminiscent of that drive, including the Bush team’s tactics of seeking to make campaigns referendums on its opponents — not a choice between two candidates — and attacking the opponent’s perceived strengths head-on. Central to the latest McCain drive is an attempt to use against Mr. Obama the huge crowds and excitement he has drawn, including on his foreign trip last week, by promoting a view of him as more interested in attention and adulation than in solving the problems facing American families.

“I would say that it is beyond dispute that he has become the biggest celebrity in the world,” Mr. Schmidt said in a conference call with reporters on Wednesday. “The question that we are posing to the American people is this: ‘Is he ready to lead yet?’ And the answer to the question that we will offer to the American people is: ‘No he is not.’ ”

Mr. McCain’s more focused assault comes after one of his worst weeks of the general election campaign, when he seemed to fumble for a consistent, overarching critique of Mr. Obama, who winged around the Middle East and Europe. Mr. McCain’s advisers continue to look for ways to bring more discipline to his message, and are being urged by some supporters to cut back the frequency of his question-and-answer sessions with reporters, a staple of his campaign but one that occasionally yields unscripted moments, misstatements and off-the-cuff pronouncements that divert attention from the themes he is trying to promote.

The intensity of the recent drive — which has included some assertions from the McCain campaign that have been widely dismissed as misleading — has surprised even some allies of Mr. McCain, who has frequently spoken about the need for civility in politics. The sentiment seeped onto television on Wednesday with Andrea Tantaros, a Republican strategist, saying on MSNBC that the use of Ms. Hilton in Mr. McCain’s commercial was “absurd and juvenile,” and that he should spend more time promoting his own agenda.

Mr. Obama’s campaign seized on those concerns, trying to turn the tables by portraying Mr. McCain as cranky and negative. The Democratic National Committee called Mr. McCain “McNasty.” Late Wednesday Mr. Obama released a counter advertisement citing editorials critical of Mr. McCain’s latest volley of attacks and featuring an announcer who says, “John McCain, Same old politics, same failed policies.”

Asked by reporters about Mr. McCain’s new advertisement, Mr. Obama said, “I do notice that he doesn’t seem to have anything to say very positive about himself.”

Mr. Obama’s chief strategist, David Axelrod, said that Mr. McCain’s strategy to define Mr. Obama negatively in voters’ minds, while similar to one that successfully worked against Mr. Kerry, would not work this year.

“When people are struggling, when they’re trying to pay their bills, when they’re concerned about their fundamental security, I don’t think they have much tolerance for Britney Spears and Paris Hilton,” Mr. Axelrod said. “I think they understand times are more serious than that, and they thought John McCain was, too.”

Mr. Schmidt, whom Mr. McCain placed in charge of day-to-day operations this month, specialized during the 2004 campaign in seizing on opportunities — think windsurfing; seemingly contradictory votes on Iraq policy — to paint Mr. Kerry negatively.

Seeking similar openings, the campaign seized on Mr. Obama’s decision to skip a visit with wounded United States troops in Germany. (The McCain campaign said Mr. Obama canceled because he could not take the news media with him to the hospital, an assertion denied by the Obama campaign and undercut by the accounts of reporters.)

The new focus has been welcomed by some Republicans. “They’re now in a position of driving news as opposed to reacting to it,” said Brian Jones, a former aide to Mr. McCain.

But some fear a backlash. And Mr. McCain does not like to follow a script. People who know him said that it may be a challenge to apply the Bush model — strict adherence to the message of the day by the candidate combined with a relentless drive to define the opponent negatively — to a campaign not known so far for discipline or consistency.

“It could be the Coca-Cola strategy of marketing that they’re trying to apply to Dr Pepper,” said John Weaver, a former chief strategist for Mr. McCain.
973 2008-07-31 The week of the egg continues, with a recipe for a frittata that looks beautiful on a buffet and is a great destination for frozen peas....
974 2008-07-31 ArcelorMittal, the steel maker, said second-quarter profit more than doubled, exceeding analysts' estimates, on higher prices and deliveries. Income climbed to $5.84 billion, or $4.19 a share, from $2.72 billion, or $1.97 a share, a year earlier. ...
975 2008-07-31 SHRINKING PAYCHECKS More than 3.7 million Americans have seen their full-time hours reduced to part time because of the weakened economy, the government reported.      DRUG GUIDELINES The Food and Drug Administration has ordered changes to the lab...
976 2008-07-31 PRICE--Marilyn Althea Matthews, 61, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend, passed away with her immediate family at her bedside in Orlando, Florida on July 22, 2008. Marilyn was a 31 year member of Soka Gakkai International, a Buddh...