1 2013-01-01 Nelson Mandela, the leading emancipator of South Africa and its first black president, died on Thursday....
2 2013-01-01 Amar'e Stoudemire, who had knee surgery in October, will make his season debut Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden....
3 2013-01-01 In an effort to encourage stopovers, the Chinese government has lifted its visa requirement for residents of the U.S. and 44 other nations....
4 2013-01-01 Extends for nine months portions of the current farm bill, including provisions that would prevent milk prices from increasing and continued direct payments to farmers. Eliminates conservation programs and financing for fruit and vegetable growers and organic farmers and does not include disaster assistance.

The two sides came to a deal to pause for two months the $110 billion in automatic spending cuts set to go into effect in 2013, paid for with unspecified spending cuts elsewhere.

Allows payroll taxes to rise on Tuesday to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent on workers’ first $113,700 of income.

Extends tax cuts in the 2009 stimulus law for five years, including a child tax credit, an expanded earned income credit and a refundable credit for college tuition. Extends some business tax credits for one year.

Permanently increases tax rates to 40 percent from 35 percent on the value of estates over $5 million.

Permanently indexes the alternative minimum tax for inflation, preventing millions of taxpayers from being affected.

Reinstates provisions that phase out personal exemptions and deductions for incomes over $250,000 for singles and $300,000 for couples.

Permanently increases tax rates to 20 percent from 15 percent for single people with income over $400,000 and couples over $450,000.

Earlier proposals by President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner included hundreds of billions more in deficit reduction, with Mr. Obama favoring increased taxes on the wealthy and Mr. Boehner favoring spending cuts.

The country officially hit its debt limit Monday, and the Treasury is undertaking “extraordinary measures” to put off default. If Congress does not raise the ceiling by late February or early March, the Treasury will not be able to pay all of its bills.

Maintains current rates on income below $400,000 for singles and $450,000 for couples. Would permanently increase tax rates on income above that to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.
5 2013-01-01 Stocks did better in Europe than in the United States in 2012, as fears of a euro zone collapse proved unfounded. But European stocks remain much farther below their pre-downturn levels.
6 2013-01-01 No. 9 Minnesota used an 18-2 run over the final seven minutes to beat No. 18 Michigan State, 76-63, on Monday, opening Big Ten play with an emphatic win over a team that has owned the Gophers for years.

Michigan State (11-3) had beaten Minnesota (13-1) in 13 of the past 15 meetings.

The Spartans led by 5 points with less than 8 minutes 30 seconds to play and they were throwing their weight around at Williams Arena in Minneapolis once again. But Minnesota did something it rarely does against Michigan State: it pushed back. Andre Hollins had 22 points and 6 assists and Rodney Williams added 15 points and 6 rebounds.

INDIANA 69, IOWA 65 Cody Zeller had 15 of his 19 points in the second half and No. 5 Indiana (13-1) opened Big Ten play with a win at Iowa (11-3). Victor Oladipo scored 14 points for the Hoosiers, who ended a four-game losing streak in Iowa City.

GONZAGA 69, OKLA. ST. 68 Kevin Pangos scored 23 points and made the clinching free throws with 4.3 seconds left, and No. 10 Gonzaga (13-1) edged No. 22 Oklahoma State to spoil one of the Cowboys’ most anticipated nonconference games at Gallagher-Iba Arena in decades. Marcus Smart led Oklahoma State (10-2) with 23 points but missed two free throws with 8.7 seconds left and the Cowboys trailing by 2.

CINCINNATI 70, PITTSBURGH 61 Cashmere Wright scored 18 points and Sean Kilpatrick added 16 to help No. 14 Cincinnati (13-1) open its Big East schedule with a win. Talib Zanna led No. 24 Pitt (12-2) with 16 points, but the Panthers missed all 10 of their 3-point attempts.

SYRACUSE 96, CENT. CONN. ST. 62 No. 7 Syracuse (12-1) won at home to give Orange Coach Jim Boeheim his 902nd career win, tying him with Bob Knight for second among Division I coaches. Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski leads with 939.
7 2013-01-01 Lichens are not individuals but tiny ecosystems, composed of one main fungus, a group of algae and an assortment of smaller fungi and bacteria. To reproduce, they can either launch a single fungal spore that must then find new algae to join with, or they can send out fingerlike projections called isidia, which contain the whole lichen package and need only a nice rock to land on.

Once attached, they hardly lead a carefree life. They may face chemical warfare from neighboring lichens, as well as the menace of a hard rain.

While lichens are communities, Dr. Pringle is largely interested in the fungi. Mycologists, the scientists who study fungi — not the most glamorous corridor of biology — have long assumed that many of these organisms don’t age.

The clear exception is yeast, a single-cell fungus that does senesce and that researchers use as a model to study aging. But most multicellular fungi, the assumption goes, don’t senesce.

No one has ever proved that, though, or even collected much data. The belief in fungi everlasting has been buoyed in part by Armillaria bulbosa, a species known as the “humongous fungus,” which grows to be as heavy as a blue whale and can take over acres of forest. (Crystal Falls, Mich., holds an annual Humongous Fungus festival, complete with the world’s largest mushroom pizza, to celebrate a 38-acre, 1,000-ton Armillaria that grows nearby and is thought to be 1,500 to 10,000 years old.)

Does that mean Armillaria and many of the world’s other fungi are not aging? Some experts believe it does. If true, such organisms would be the fungal equivalent of vampires, able to die only by external means. (“A bus can still run over them,” Dr. Pringle said.) But the concept has yet to catch on in the wider world of biology, dominated by scientists who study plants and animals.

In the world beyond fungi, whether organisms can escape aging is a matter of scientific controversy. A longstanding explanation for aging pins the blame on built-up genetic mutations activated once fertility begins to taper off. But this theory doesn’t work for fungi, which reproduce more, not less, as they grow older.

According to a second theory, aging occurs because some traits that make us more reproductively successful may also set the stage for our demise. High testosterone levels, for instance, might help males make more babies — but also predispose them to prostate cancer.

Both theories explain aging as a biological imperative, a cellular commandment no life form can escape. Dr. Pringle says that way of looking at the world does not account for the realities of life as a fungus.

“What you know is based on the organisms you study,” she said. “What would you say about the evolution of senescence if instead of working with insects, you worked with modular organisms, which is what lichen are?”

Daniel Doak, a University of Colorado ecologist, agrees that the question is worth asking. Research like Dr. Pringle’s — along with other studies of species including the bristlecone pine tree and the wandering albatross, a bird, both of which may avoid senescence — suggests another possible path.

“It’s saying something fundamental,” Dr. Doak said, “that senescence is not an inevitable part of life. Which means there might be ways to prevent it.” That idea could eventually have implications for human medicine.

“There is variation in the natural world,” said Deborah Roach, a biologist at the University of Virginia who studies aging in plants. “One of the cool things to ask is: How do these other species escape this process? What rules that confine us to be an aging species don’t exist in other species?”

Before Dr. Pringle started the study, a colleague suggested she was wasting her time: to prove that something doesn’t age would take far longer than the duration of a research grant, perhaps longer than a researcher’s career or even life. But she stood her ground.

“I wanted to learn about fungi because those are the organisms that broke all the rules,” she said. “I wanted to know their natural history, their biology, so I could go back to fundamental principles of ecology and say, ‘Yeah, but in fungi it works like this.’ “

At the Frenches’ grave, Dr. Pringle held up a transparent sheet of plastic with the penciled outlines of about 60 lichens from a year earlier. She painstakingly located each on the tombstone, took notes on its appearance and traced it onto a new sheet. After so many years watching the lichens, she thinks of them “like old friends,” she said.

Most were alive and healthy — lacy green circles growing predictably year by year. Most, but not all. No. 94 was a tiny dot on last year’s tracing. Now it was covered over by another type of lichen, a different genus. “That’s mortality,” said Dr. Pringle, “but not from senescence.” No. 59 was dead too; probably it was “swallowed by No. 8,” but it may have simply slid off the obelisk. “The hardest thing for a lichen here is hanging on,” she said. “It’s a vertical cliff face.”

Dr. Pringle’s preliminary results show that as a lichen grows older and larger, it is less likely to die. “If you made me answer the question now,” she said, “I’d say there can be senescence of parts of an individual. But I don’t think an individual ever senesces.” The definition of aging, then, may differ from organism to organism. Death as we know it rests on an animal-centered idea of individuality.

After she finished monitoring the lichens on the Frenches’ grave marker, Dr. Pringle walked across a field, past her blue Prius with its “Mycologists Have More Fungi” bumper sticker. She followed a dirt path into the forest and stopped before a stone wall snaking through the woods.

“This is the largest individual I’ve seen, and it’s probably around 30 years old,” she said, pointing out a Xanthoparmelia roughly six inches in diameter. Nearby on the wall, she had taken samples of a half-dozen lichen the previous autumn, to see if they would grow back. A few showed no signs of regrowth, but in two of the bare patches, tiny dots of lichen were beginning to fill in.

Until now, most of her work has involved such observations. But she plans to begin more direct experiments, like putting a tracer on part of a lichen to watch how it moves. After all, she said, “this is a slow system,” and while a lichen may live forever, a biologist will not.
8 2013-01-01 Iranian forces fired what military officers said was a new generation of surface-to-air missiles on Monday during a wide-ranging naval exercise that focused on striking hypothetical unmanned aircraft and vessels in international waters to the south of the country, Iranian news media reported.

The missiles were fired on the fourth day of a six-day naval exercise that started Friday, when Iran announced that it had begun the exercises that would test a new version of its Thunder surface-to-air midrange missile. They were meant to demonstrate the country’s defense of its territorial waters, the official Islamic Republic News Agency said.

In addition, Iran deployed warships and helicopters to escort commercial ships and oil tankers as part of a drill meant to show the country’s ability to combat piracy, the news agency reported. The exercise also included drills using Iranian-made drones and submarines.

The semiofficial Fars news agency quoted an Iranian naval commander, Rear Adm. Alireza Nayyeri, as saying that the navy had “boosted and upgraded” the capability of its domestically manufactured drone aircraft.

The exercise was conducted in the Strait of Hormuz, a strategic waterway through which many of the world’s oil and cargo shipments pass, as well as in the Gulf of Oman, the Gulf of Aden and the northern Indian Ocean, IRNA reported. Accounts in the state-run news media said the war games covered a 400,000-square-mile area.

Iran holds military exercises regularly to demonstrate its defense capabilities in the strategic Persian Gulf region, where about 30 percent of the world’s energy supplies are transported. The United States Navy maintains a carrier force in the area and stations its Fifth Fleet in Bahrain. American forces conduct naval exercises with other countries in the region, including the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
9 2013-01-01 BEIJING — A correspondent for The New York Times was forced to leave mainland China on Monday after the authorities declined to issue him a visa for 2013 by year’s end.

Chris Buckley, a 45-year-old Australian who has worked as a correspondent in China since 2000, rejoined The Times in September after working for Reuters. The Times applied for Mr. Buckley to be accredited to replace a correspondent who was reassigned, but the authorities did not act before Dec. 31, despite numerous requests. That forced Mr. Buckley, his partner and their daughter to fly to Hong Kong on Monday.

Normally, requests to transfer visas are processed in a matter of weeks or a couple of months.

The Times is also waiting for its new Beijing bureau chief, Philip P. Pan, to be accredited. Mr. Pan applied in March, but his visa has not been processed.

The visa troubles come amid government pressure on the foreign news media over investigations into the finances of senior Chinese leaders, a delicate subject. Corruption is widely reported in China, but top leaders are considered off limits.

On the day that The Times published a long investigation into the riches of the family of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, both its English-language Web site and its new Chinese-language site were blocked within China, and they remain so.

In June, the authorities blocked the English-language site of Bloomberg News after it published a detailed investigation into the family riches of China’s new top leader, Xi Jinping. Chinese financial institutions say they have been instructed by officials not to buy Bloomberg’s computer terminals, a lucrative source of income for the company.
10 2013-01-02 Amar'e Stoudemire, at Knicks practice on Wednesday, took a swipe at his former coach, Mike D'Antoni, saying that he had never been properly taught how to play defense....
11 2013-01-02 Teach for America, the nonprofit organization that recruits high-achieving college graduates to teach in some of the nation's poorest schools for two years, has garnered renewed interest among would-be finance professionals....
12 2013-01-02 The Producers Guild of America unveils its nominees, and the list of 10 includes the dark horse contenders "Moonrise Kingdom" and "Skyfall."...
13 2013-01-02 K2 Intelligence has acquired Thacher Associates, a leading player in the niche business of overseeing real estate development projects on behalf of governments and developers to ferret out corruption....
14 2013-01-02 Section 179 expensing lives! Advocates for small businesses had feared that legislators might overlook their interests in the high-pressure 'fiscal cliff' negotiations....
15 2013-01-02 Cory Stearns will dance with the Royal Ballet and the soloist Isabella Boylston will dance in the Royal Danish Ballet's "Nutcracker."...
16 2013-01-02 Mark Kantrowitz, an expert on paying for college, explains how the new legislation affects financial aid for current and prospective college students....
17 2013-01-02 New light vehicle registrations in the United States are expected to rise 6.6 percent this year over 2012 levels, to 15.3 million vehicles....
18 2013-01-02 Among the wild-card matchups to savor this weekend: The Redskins' read-option meets the Seahawks' read-option, and Chuck Pagano faces his former team....
19 2013-01-02 The new year began on an optimistic note after the House approved a deal to resolve the fiscal showdown. | The Avis Budget Group is buying Zipcar for $500 million. | The winners and losers of the past year gathered in spirit for DealBook's annual ...
20 2013-01-02 From Jay Goltz's suggestions on how to diagnose business problems to Paul Downs's attempts to master Google AdWords, here are the best insights from another year in the small-business trenches....
21 2013-01-02 Stoudemire played only 16 minutes off the bench, scoring 6 points and shooting 3 of 8. Woodson said he would need to ease him back into shape, knowing Stoudemire began practicing with the team only on Sunday.

The fans cheered as he rose to enter the game for the first time, with 3 minutes 31 seconds left in the first quarter, and he brought the crowd to its feet with a rousing dunk late in the third.

But otherwise, Stoudemire appeared unsure of himself. He committed a turnover on his first possession, stepping out of bounds underneath the basket, and missed his first five shots.

“The game felt like it was going 100 miles an hour,” Stoudemire said, adding: “But the second half was better than my first. I’m hoping my second game will be better than my first.”

At one point, after several missed assignments defending Portland’s pick-and-roll, Woodson sat down Stoudemire and appeared to coach him on the run. Stoudemire said Woodson was telling him to be more patient.

“I expected that was going to happen,” Woodson said. “We’ll show him on film tomorrow and hopefully he’ll learn from it and we’ll build on it.”

Almost certainly there will be better, more typical Stoudemire performances to come, but his role with these new-look Knicks remains a topic of debate. On the surface, the return of Stoudemire, a six-time All-Star who averaged 17.5 points and 7.8 rebounds in 47 games last season, represents a significant improvement of the roster, particularly the bench.

There are concerns, however, chiefly about whether Stoudemire might disrupt the team’s harmony and flow, and about how he will interact with Anthony, who is off to a start worthy of most valuable player consideration. Would Stoudemire be better coming off the bench? Will he accept a reduced role?

“Those guys have been playing phenomenal all season long,” Stoudemire said. “I just want to get out there and help them as much as I can, any way I can.”

Woodson would not speculate on lineups, saying only that he hoped Stoudemire made it through Tuesday’s game healthy enough to practice Wednesday. Stoudemire was originally planning on a Christmas Day return against the Lakers in Los Angeles, but the timetable was pushed back. He said before Tuesday’s game that he was still not feeling 100 percent, but after the game he said his legs felt fine. “I felt very explosive,” he said. “I had no hesitation at all. It’s a great sign.”

The Trail Blazers were energetic underneath — they scored 32 points in the paint, with 16 coming on second chances — and assisted on 15 of their first 25 field goals.

Only Anthony kept the Knicks afloat, hitting 8 of 11 shots in the first half. Anthony scored 13 of the team’s first 16 points and also banked in a desperation 3-pointer as the buzzer sounded to send the Knicks into halftime down by 58-47.

They came out of the intermission with more energy and quickly trimmed Portland’s lead to 3. J. R. Smith scored 8 points in the third quarter, and the defense did a better job clamping down on J. J. Hickson, who scored all 18 of his points in the first half.

The Trail Blazers held a 12-point lead with four minutes remaining, but the Knicks cut the advantage to 100-97 on a 3-pointer by Anthony with 55 seconds left. But Anthony missed a game-tying 3 with 15.9 seconds left, and the Blazers grabbed the rebound.

“I will take that shot anytime,” Anthony said.

J.R. Smith scored 28 points, becoming the first Knick to score 25 or more points in four straight games while coming off the bench.
22 2013-01-02 Nor would she have been apt to embark on her later career as a prominent cultural impresario, one of the first people to bring traditional Asian performing arts to audiences throughout North America — a job, pursued vigorously until she was nearly 70, that entailed travel to some of Asia’s most remote, inaccessible reaches.

The daughter of Leo Sirota and the former Augustine Horenstein, Beate (pronounced bay-AH-tay) Sirota was born on Oct. 25, 1923, in Vienna, where her parents had settled.

When she was 5, her father was invited to teach at the Imperial Academy of Music in Tokyo, and the family moved there for a planned six-month stay. Mr. Sirota soon became revered in Japan as a performer and teacher, and they wound up living in Tokyo for more than a decade.

Beate was educated at a German school in Tokyo and, from the mid-1930s on, after the school became far too Nazified for her parents’ liking, at the American School in Japan. In 1939, shortly before her 16th birthday, she left for Mills College in Oakland, Calif. Her parents remained in Japan.

In December 1941, after the attack on Pearl Harbor, it became impossible to contact Japan. Beate had no word from her parents, and no money.

She put her foreign language prowess to work: by this time, she was fluent in English, Japanese, German, French, Spanish and Russian.

Obtaining permission from Mills to take examinations without having to attend classes, she took a job at a United States government listening post in San Francisco, monitoring radio broadcasts from Tokyo. She later worked in San Francisco for the United States Office of War Information, writing radio scripts urging Japan to surrender.

Beate Sirota received her bachelor’s degree in modern languages from Mills in 1943 and became a United States citizen in January 1945. At war’s end, she still did not know whether her parents were alive or dead.

For American civilians, travel to Japan was all but impossible. She went to Washington, where she secured a job as an interpreter on General MacArthur’s staff. Arriving in a devastated Tokyo on Christmas Eve 1945, she went immediately to her family’s house. Where it had stood was only a single charred pillar.

She eventually found her parents, who had been interned in the countryside and were malnourished. She took them to Tokyo, where she nursed them while continuing her work for General MacArthur.

One of MacArthur’s first priorities was drafting a constitution for postwar Japan, a top-secret assignment, begun in February 1946, that had to be finished in just seven days. As the only woman assigned to his constitutional committee, along with two dozen men, young Beate Sirota was deputized to compose the section on women’s rights.

She had seen women’s lives firsthand during the 10 years she lived in Japan, and urgently wanted to improve their status.

“Japanese women were historically treated like chattel; they were property to be bought and sold on a whim,” Ms. Gordon told The Dallas Morning News in 1999. “Women had no rights whatsoever.”

Commandeering a jeep at the start of that week in February, she visited the libraries in Tokyo that were still standing, borrowing copies of as many different countries’ constitutions as she could. She steeped herself in them and, after seven days of little sleep, wound up drafting two articles of the proposed Japanese Constitution.

One, Article 14, said in part, “All of the people are equal under the law and there shall be no discrimination in political, economic or social relations because of race, creed, sex, social status or family origin.”

The other, Article 24, gave women protections in areas including “choice of spouse, property rights, inheritance, choice of domicile, divorce and other matters.”

The new Constitution took effect in 1947; the next year, Beate Sirota married Joseph Gordon, who had been the chief interpreter for American military intelligence in postwar Japan.

In the 1950s, Ms. Gordon joined the staff of the Japan Society in New York, becoming its director of performing arts. In that capacity, she introduced many Japanese artists to the West, including masters of traditional music, dance, woodblock printing and the tea ceremony.

In 1970, she became director of performing arts at the Asia Society in New York. She scoured Asia for talent, bringing Balinese gamelan ensembles, Vietnamese puppeteers, Mongolian dancers and many others to stages throughout the United States and Canada. She retired in 1991 as the society’s director of performances, films and lectures.

Ms. Gordon’s husband, who became a real estate developer, died last August. Besides her daughter, she is survived by a son, Geoffrey, and three grandchildren.

For decades, Ms. Gordon said nothing about her role in postwar Japan, at first because the work was secret and later because she did not want her youth — and the fact that she was an American — to become ammunition for the Japanese conservatives who have long clamored for constitutional revision.

But in the mid-1980s, she began to speak of it publicly. The release of her memoir, “The Only Woman in the Room,” published in Japanese in 1995 and in English two years later, made her a celebrity in Japan, where she lectured widely, appeared on television and was the subject of a stage play and a documentary film, “The Gift From Beate.”

In recent years, amid renewed attacks on the Constitution by Japanese conservatives, Ms. Gordon spoke out ardently in its defense.

Ms. Gordon was awarded the Order of the Sacred Treasure, a high honor bestowed by the Japanese government, in 1998. But perhaps the greatest accolade she received came from Japanese women themselves.

“They always want their picture taken with me,” Ms. Gordon told ABC News in 1999. “They always want to shake my hand. They always tell me how grateful they are.”
23 2013-01-02 Prosecutors in Cairo opened a criminal investigation on Tuesday into allegations that a popular television comedian, Bassem Youssef, who has taken special aim at ultraconservative Islamists on his program, had insulted Egypt’s president, Mohamed Morsi, during his satirical monologues.

The accusations against Mr. Youssef come amid growing fears among Egypt’s media professionals that the country’s newly ratified Constitution offers scant protections for freedom of expression.

Since Mr. Morsi was elected in June, the authorities have opened investigations into several media figures accused of insulting him or the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group he once led.

An Islamist lawyer who filed the complaint against Mr. Youssef, Ramadan al-Aqsuri, said a skit in which the comedian printed a picture of Mr. Morsi’s face on a red pillow amounted to a “sharp attack on the person of the president.” Separately, a Muslim Brotherhood lawyer filed a lawsuit asking the state to pull Mr. Youssef’s show off the air and to close down the channel that carries it, citing “sarcasm against the president.”
24 2013-01-02 Ms. Riva has shorter hair than her character in the movie, but she has the same delicate reserve and softness in her eyes. She sat straight, even immobile, and moved from a room to another with an athletic grace unusual for a woman of her age.

Though Ms. Riva has long been admired for her inimitable diction, allure and unassuming intelligence in portraying often dark and unconventional characters in New Wave classics like “Hiroshima Mon Amour,” she said, “I’ve never wanted to be a star, never.” She added: “I tried to do things that pleased me, and I needed to do various things. It is dreadful to see actors reproducing the same image constantly.”

Mr. Haneke’s unusually tender yet unsentimental look at old age attracted her, she explained, and his straightforward view of decrepitude and death did not scare her, even when she was made up to appear older for the role.

“My instructions were ‘no sentimentalism,’ ” she said. “From that moment on, I understood everything.”

She threw herself into the performance with more instinct than preparation, and the role, she said, “exorcised” her fears of death. Isabelle Huppert, who plays her daughter in “Amour,” told her that in Mr. Haneke’s movies, “the spectators are the ones who suffer, not the actors,” and Ms. Riva said she agreed with that sentiment.

“The atmosphere was very solemn, very precise and very rigorous on the set,” she added. “There wasn’t any sadness; we were all together.”

Like many other actresses, she went through an audition for the role of Anne, the retired teacher. “Haneke told me that I was the one who had touched him the most,” she said. “He even kindly told me later that I was the only actress in France who could do it.”

In an interview with The Times earlier this year, Mr. Haneke said, “As a young man, I’d been captivated by Emmanuelle Riva in ‘Hiroshima Mon Amour’ but after that I lost her from view.” When it came time to cast “Amour,” he said that at the auditions, “from the very beginning Emmanuelle Riva was my favorite, not only because she’s a great actress but because she forms a very attractive and believable couple with Jean-Louis Trintignant.”

Ms. Riva was born Paulette Rivat in 1927 and grew up in Remiremont, a small village in eastern France. Her father worked as a painter for construction companies.

As a child, Ms. Riva cherished “climbing on the trees of words” and performed in plays at the local theater. But life as an actress seemed unattainable for a “country girl,” as she likes to call herself, from a family of modest means, so she quit school and worked as a seamstress for several years “while waiting for something else.”

After seeing an advertisement in a local paper, she applied to an acting school in Paris and landed her first role on the Paris stage in 1954, in George Bernard Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.”

“I wanted to live another life and many lives at once,” she said. “Acting makes you live plenty of lives.”

The celebrity she never sought came in 1959 when Alain Resnais chose her as the lead in “Hiroshima Mon Amour,” playing an actress who goes to Hiroshima after the United States has dropped the atomic bomb, and is caught in an impossible affair with a Japanese architect.

She has fond memories of the experience, whose aftereffects include the 2009 publication of a book of photographs she took of Hiroshima during the shooting, and a lasting friendship with the movie’s writer, Marguerite Duras.

Ms. Riva later played a tormented widow looking for God in the 1961 “Léon Morin, Priest,” by Jean-Pierre Melville, as well as an unhappy wife who tries to poison her husband in “Thérèse.” Those performances, considered audacious at the time, led to more tragic and intellectual roles rather than comedies.

“I refused as many offers as I accepted,” she said. “I refused commercial roles. But it was wrong, I have been too extreme, and I don’t say it was good.”

After working with renowned directors like Marco Bellochio and Philippe Garrel, Ms. Riva had difficulty finding film roles that suited her, and mostly devoted herself to theater work. She had small parts in Krzysztof Kieslowski’s “Three Colors: Blue,” from 1993, and Tonie Marshall’s 1999 “Venus Beauty Institute,” and then turned to poetry for a while, writing three books of verse.

She likes to quote her friend the singer Jacques Brel, with whom she performed in André Cayatte’s “Risques du Métier” (1967): “Do you know any word more stupid than ‘star’?”

Ms. Riva is childless, and her companion died in 1999. Today she lives with no cellphone or television, and says that whatever comes, she intends to remain an ordinary person, even after the attention she has received for “Amour.”

The film’s success pleases her, she said, particularly when she hears from fans or young people.

On a recent day her face lighted up as she read a letter from an old friend who had just seen “Amour.” “I still wonder how you managed to age so tragically in front of our eyes,” the friend wrote.

Ms. Riva laughed and said, as if responding to the letter: “Anne is another person, it isn’t me. It is a journey into someone else, someone I’m not.”
25 2013-01-02 Experts not involved in the research said it suggested that overweight people need not panic unless they have other indicators of poor health and that depending on where fat is in the body, it might be protective or even nutritional for older or sicker people. But over all, piling on pounds and becoming more than slightly obese remains dangerous.

“We wouldn’t want people to think, ‘Well, I can take a pass and gain more weight,’ ” said Dr. George Blackburn, associate director of Harvard Medical School’s division.

Rather, he and others said, the report, in The Journal of the American Medical Association, suggests that B.M.I., a ratio of height to weight, should not be the only indicator of healthy weight.

“Body mass index is an imperfect measure of the risk of mortality,” and factors like , and blood sugar must be considered, said Dr. Samuel Klein, director of the Center for Human Nutrition at School of Medicine in .

Dr. Steven Heymsfield, executive director of the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in , who wrote an editorial accompanying the study, said that for overweight people, if indicators like cholesterol “are in the abnormal range, then that weight is affecting you,” but that if indicators are normal, there’s no reason to “go on a crash diet.”

Experts also said the data suggested that the definition of “normal” B.M.I., 18.5 to 24.9, should be revised, excluding its lowest weights, which might be too thin.

The study did show that the two highest obesity categories (B.M.I. of 35 and up) are at high risk. “Once you have higher obesity, the fat’s in the fire,” Dr. Blackburn said.

But experts also suggested that concepts of fat be refined.

“Fat per se is not as bad as we thought,” said Dr. Kamyar Kalantar-Zadeh, professor of medicine and public health at the .

“What is bad is a type of fat that is inside your belly,” he said. “Non-belly fat, underneath your skin in your thigh and your butt area — these are not necessarily bad.”

He added that, to a point, extra fat is accompanied by extra muscle, which can be healthy.

Still, it is possible that overweight or somewhat obese people are less likely to die because they, or their doctors, have identified other conditions associated with weight gain, like high cholesterol or .

“You’re more likely to be in your doctor’s office and more likely to be treated,” said Dr. Robert Eckel, a past president of the and a professor at .

Some experts said fat could be protective in some cases, although that is unproven and debated. The study did find that people 65 and over had no greater mortality risk even at high obesity.

“There’s something about extra body fat when you’re older that is providing some reserve,” Dr. Eckel said.

And studies on specific illnesses, like heart and kidney disease, have found an “obesity paradox,” that heavier patients are less likely to die.

Still, death is not everything. Even if “being overweight doesn’t increase your risk of dying,” Dr. Klein said, it “does increase your risk of having diabetes” or other conditions.

Ultimately, said the study’s lead author, Katherine Flegal, a senior scientist at the , “the best weight might depend on the situation you’re in.”

Take the perfect woman, Elsie Scheel, in whose “physical makeup there is not a single defect,” the Times article said.

This woman who “has never been ill and doesn’t know what fear is” loved sports and didn’t consume candy, coffee or tea. But she also ate only three meals every two days, and loved beefsteak.

Maybe such seeming contradictions made sense against the societal inconsistencies of that time. After all, her post-college plans involved tilling her father’s farm, but “if she were a man, she would study mechanical engineering.”
26 2013-01-02 Manchester United maintained its seven-point lead in the English Premier League with a 4-0 victory over Wigan at the DW Stadium on Tuesday.

Javier Hernández opened the scoring for the visitors in the 35th minute with a strike from close range before Robin van Persie doubled the advantage eight minutes later. Hernández added his second in the 63rd minute and Van Persie matched the Mexico international in the 88th minute when he closed out the scoring. Van Persie’s brace moves him to 64 goals in 76 league games since January 2011.

Manchester City 3, Stoke City 0 Sergio Agüero endured a bittersweet first match of 2013 for Manchester City, rounding off the scoring in a victory over Stoke before going off injured.

Agüero converted a 74th-minute penalty, adding to goals by Pablo Zabaleta and Edin Dzeko, to ensure Stoke’s 10-match unbeaten run in the league came to a crushing end at the Etihad Stadium. However, Agüero was forced off three minutes later, clutching his right hamstring, after pulling up sharply as he ran.

City remained seven points behind United in the title race.

Tottenham 3, Reading 1 Tottenham conceded a quick goal to Reading, but still won easily.
27 2013-01-02 Credit: Brian Harkin for The New York Times
28 2013-01-03 “Tell me about France,” says Naim (Mahmoud Shalaby), a young Palestinian man dodging Israeli missiles in Gaza. “It will make me dream.”

He’s addressing a 17-year-old girl named Tal (Agathe Bonitzer), a French-born immigrant to Jerusalem whom he has never met. Communicating solely by e-mail after Naim, 20, finds a note from Tal washed up in a bottle on the beach, the two begin a search for common ground despite their uncommon circumstances.

Set in 2007 and unfolding over a single year, “A Bottle in the Gaza Sea” (based on a young-adult novel by Valérie Zenatti) is a simplistic but heartfelt engagement with war as experienced by those still growing into their opinions and allegiances.

There’s not much to dream about in Naim’s life: goods languish for hours at blockades, electricity comes and goes, and his widowed mother (an indispensable Hiam Abbas) works long hours at an overflowing hospital. And though Tal may be more materially comfortable, her days are equally dogged by uncertainty and random violence.

Fueled by neither anger nor religious extremism — the director, Thierry Binisti, remains rigidly nonpartisan — “Bottle” is a gentle pairing of youthful idealism and tenacious hope. As Tal tells her father when he questions her enjoyment of music she had previously disdained, “Only idiots never change.” If only it were that simple.
29 2013-01-03 The Opening Day of the 113th Congress
30 2013-01-03 Time Warner Cable dropped Current TV after the company announced it was being sold to the pan-Arab news network....
31 2013-01-03 Wegelin & Company admitted to helping Americans to evade United States taxes, the first time a foreign financial institution has pleaded guilty to tax-law violations....
32 2013-01-03 Rather than have the so-called fiscal cliff bill flown to Hawaii, where he is vacationing with his family, the president directed that the bill be signed with the White House autopen....
33 2013-01-03 By New Year's Eve, 65 banks had registered their derivatives business with regulators and turned over heaps of real-time trading data to outside warehouses, fulfilling a centerpiece of the Obama administration's financial regulatory crackdown....
34 2013-01-03 A former employee of the American Humane Association says she witnessed the widespread abuse of animals used in the making of the now-canceled HBO series "Luck" and that she was fired to keep her from reporting her findings....
35 2013-01-03 Do you have a top quarterback or not? Everything in the N.F.L. can change based on that question....
36 2013-01-03 And then, said one owner, 'There's something else that comes and knocks you upside the head.'...
37 2013-01-03 A remark by the President's son about women in their (gasp) thirties, refuses to go away....
38 2013-01-03 When House Republicans made it clear that they opposed a big deal, however, Mr. Obama decided to take the smaller deal, bank a series of victories and wait to fight another day. The alternative — debated inside the White House, but not ultimately a close call — would have been to go over the cliff in the hope of forcing Republicans into a larger deal.

Without that larger agreement, Mr. Obama will be left to find solutions to future budget deadlines without the leverage that came with the prospect of automatic tax increases.

“The best world would have been a bigger agreement,” an administration official acknowledged. “This is a big win in a second-best world.”

Perhaps the best prism through which to see the Democrats’ gains is inequality. In the 2008 campaign, Mr. Obama said that his top priority as president would be to “create bottom-up economic growth” and reduce inequality.

He has governed as such. In the 2009 stimulus, he insisted on making tax credits “fully refundable,” so that even people who did not make enough to pay much federal tax would benefit. The 2010 health care law overhaul was probably the biggest attack on inequality since it began rising in the 1970s, increasing taxes on businesses and the rich to pay for health insurance largely for the middle class.

As part of this week’s deal, Mr. Obama did make several major compromises. He accepted much less in overall tax revenue than the government would have received absent any deal. He allowed a payroll-tax cut, which applied to most households, to expire. And he yielded both on aspects of the estate tax and on the level at which the top marginal income-tax rate would start, moving it to $450,000 for couples, from $250,000.

Still, using inequality as a yardstick, he won much of what he had wanted. By holding firm to a top rate of 39.6 percent — up from 35 percent — he locked in a substantial tax increase for the very richest, who have received the biggest pretax raises in recent years.

On average, the top 0.1 percent of earners — whose incomes start at $2.7 million and go much higher — will pay $444,000 more in taxes in 2013 than they otherwise would have, according to the Tax Policy Center. The increases stem from both the fiscal deal and the new taxes in the health care law.

In effect, the deal preserves the “compassionate conservative” part of President George W. Bush’s tax agenda — reducing federal income taxes on the working poor, sometimes to zero — while limiting the parts that most helped the affluent.

Even one of the chief architects of the Bush tax cuts, R. Glenn Hubbard, now dean of Columbia Business School, did not celebrate the enshrinement of most of them. He said in an interview that the deal would amplify the tax code’s distortions on the economy.

Former President Bill Clinton, by contrast, has told people that he considers the deal a good one, according to two people who have spoken to him.

Beyond income tax code, the deal continued jobless benefits for two million long-term unemployed who otherwise would have lost them immediately. And it extended, for one year, an energy tax credit that has reduced alternative-energy costs and increased use.

The question that hangs over the deal for Democrats is whether they will have to play defense on the budget for the rest of Mr. Obama’s presidency.

When Republicans stepped back from a larger deal last month, one that would have resolved the debt ceiling, Mr. Obama faced a choice. He could have worked toward a smaller deal, as he did, or insisted that the debt ceiling had to be part of any package.

White House officials took the path they did because they feared that a hardened stance on the debt ceiling would result in no deal at all: taxes would have risen on nearly everyone; automatic spending cuts would have begun; jobless benefits would have ended for many; and markets may have reacted badly.

In the chaos that could have followed, the officials believed, a grand bargain would have been unlikely. If anything, Democrats — worried they would be blamed for the economy’s troubles, as the party holding the White House — might have struggled to get a deal as good as this week’s. Having won this round, Democrats still have compromises to offer Republicans in the next one, like changes to Social Security.

But some of Mr. Obama’s allies wonder if he should have taken the risk of a confrontation now. A stalemate next time will bring no threat of higher taxes, and Republicans may stand firmer, demanding cuts that undo Mr. Obama’s recent gains.

“I now fear that we are heading toward a crisis that can dwarf what we’ve just been through,” said Robert Greenstein, president of the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “We really won’t know how best to view the deal, and how well the White House has done, until the debt limit is done.”

The wait for a fuller answer will not last too long: The federal government is on pace to need a higher debt limit by March.
39 2013-01-03 He will use the panel’s preliminary report to construct an educational agenda he will deliver in his State of the State address, on Wednesday, his aides said. That, in turn, will be an opening salvo in Albany’s annual legislative and budgetary process where education is a third-rail issue because of the vast amount of money tied to it.

Much of what the commission has proposed will be expensive. Several observers said that the commission’s ideas came at a time when the state owed roughly $5 billion in aid to poor school districts, under a 2007 agreement that followed a lawsuit and a Court of Appeals ruling.

One commission member, Michael A. Rebell, a lawyer and professor who is the former executive director of the group that filed the suit, said that though he voted for all the recommendations, he was disappointed that the commission remained silent on the owed money. The commission vowed to further explore educational financing and costs as it prepares its final report, due in September.

The proposal to consolidate some school districts will most likely meet resistance, particularly in towns that pride themselves on their locally run schools. Proposals like expanding career and technical high schools, and turning some schools in poorer areas into community centers, will most likely be easier sells. Mr. Cuomo said that students could sometimes get lost in sprawling bureaucracies and that the system must instead work for them.

Some Democrats who are expected to run for mayor this year praised the proposal to expand universal prekindergarten. One of them, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, said it should also be an option for children who do not live in poverty-stricken areas.

The idea for a bar-exam-style test for teachers has the support of Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, who also was a member of the commission. She said she advanced the idea, to “replace today’s patchwork of pre-service tests” and ensure that teachers were better prepared for the classroom.

Mr. Parsons, the chairman, said that many other states and countries had begun to extend students’ learning time, and that New York “must do the same.”

Specifically, he held out a grant program in Massachusetts, where some schools offer one to two hours of additional instruction, often in art or music. Some of these districts provide more pay for teachers to work longer, some stagger their work schedules and others offer common planning and professional development time, said Ms. Weingarten, who cited other examples in Ohio and Connecticut.
40 2013-01-03 Major producers like 5-Hour Energy, Red Bull, Monster Energy and Rockstar Energy all say their products contain proprietary blends of ingredients that provide a range of mental and physical benefits. But the companies have conducted few studies to show that the costly products provide anything more than a blast of caffeine, a stimulant found in beverages like coffee, tea or cola-flavored sodas.

The dispute over 5-Hour Energy’s claim also comes as regulatory review of the high-caffeine drinks is increasing. The Food and Drug Administration recently disclosed that it had received reports over the last four years citing the possible role of 5-Hour Energy in 13 deaths. The mention of a product in an F.D.A. report does not mean it caused a death or injury. Living Essentials says it knows of no problems related to its products.

The issue surrounding the company’s “no crash” claim dates to 2007, when National Advertising Division began reviewing all of 5-Hour Energy’s marketing claims. That same year, the company conducted a clinical trial of the energy shot that compared it to Red Bull and Monster Energy.

At the time, Living Essentials was already using the “No crash later” claim. An article on Wednesday in The New York Times reported that the study had shown that 24 percent of those who used 5-Hour Energy suffered a “moderately severe” crash hours after consuming it. The study reported higher crash rates for Red Bull and Monster Energy.

When asked how those findings squared with the company’s “no crash” claim, Elaine Lutz, a spokeswoman for Living Essentials, said the company had amended the claim after the 2007 review by the National Advertising Division. In doing so, it added an asterisklike mark after the claim on product labels and in promotions. The mark referred to additional labeling language stating that “no crash means no sugar crash.” Unlike Red Bull and Monster Energy, 5-Hour Energy does not contain sugar.

Ms. Lutz said that based on the modification, the advertising accuracy group “found all of our claims to be substantiated.”

However, Ms. Levine, the advertising group’s director, took sharp exception to that assertion, saying it mischaracterized the group’s decision. And a review of the reports suggested that Living Essentials had simply added language of its choosing to its label rather than doing what the group had recommended — drop the “no crash” claim altogether.

That review concluded that the company’s 2007 study had shown there was evidence to support a “qualified claim that 5-Hour Energy results in less of a crash than Red Bull and Monster” Energy. But it added the study, which showed that 5-Hour Energy users experienced caffeine-related crashes, was inadequate to support a “no crash” claim.

Ms. Levine said Living Essentials had apparently decided to use the parts of the group’s report that it liked and ignore others.

Companies “are not permitted to mischaracterize our decisions or misuse them for commercial purposes,” she said.

She said the group planned to notify Living Essentials that it was reopening its review of the “no crash later” claim. If the company fails to respond or provides an inadequate response, the National Advertising Division will probably refer the matter to the F.T.C., she said.

A Democratic lawmaker, Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts, has asked that the agency review energy drink marketing claims.

Asked about the position of the National Advertising Division, Ms. Lutz, the 5-Hour Energy spokeswoman, stated in an e-mail that the “no sugar crash” language had been added to address the group’s concern.
41 2013-01-03 David S. Yassky, the city’s taxi commissioner, cautioned that any change in tipping patterns might have more to do with math than rider resentment. In purely monetary terms, average tips are up 8 percent to $2.29, from $2.12, on fares paid by card. It is the tip percentage that has fallen, because fares have increased at a far greater rate.

If passengers are accustomed to tipping, say, $3 on their daily rides, Mr. Yassky reasoned, they might continue to do so even as the fare rises.

“It’s behavior staying the same,” he said. “That drop is just an artifact of the pre-existing behavior.”

But there may be another explanation. Perhaps drivers’ tips have become less tethered to the metered fare itself. (Just as deliverymen might expect the same fistful of $1 bills whether they are carrying $10 worth of food or $50 worth.)

Graham Hodges, a taxi historian and former driver, said the question of how to define cabbies within the service industry had long influenced tips.

“There’s always a tension of whether to perceive the cabdriver as an independent-business man who has costs like you and me, or as a servant,” Mr. Hodges said. “I think people would like to see the cabdriver as a servant” — someone perhaps more entitled to a tip — “but they’re unable to.”

Expanded use of credit cards may have also changed the dynamic. During the period studied this year, 49.9 percent of riders used cards, compared with 38.7 percent for the same dates in 2010 and 44.1 percent in 2011.

“There’s simply less human interaction: you swipe the card and you’re out the door,” said Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance. “If you’re paying in cash, you make eye contact with the driver. You feel more compelled to give them a better tip.”

Mr. Yassky noted that most credit card users ignore the suggested tip amounts on the back-seat monitor, which lists options for tips of 20 percent, 25 percent or 30 percent. He said the amounts that riders put in themselves sometimes exceeded the suggested totals.

“I was shocked when I found this out,” he said. New Yorkers, he concluded, “don’t like to be pushed around.”

Interviews with taxi riders yielded myriad justifications for tipping decisions: Drivers choose the wrong route. The economy is weak. Fares are too high as it is.

Others insisted they would never dream of shortchanging drivers but offered tales of less virtuous friends.

“They’ve started to skimp on tips,” Kira Shalom, from Hell’s Kitchen, said of her clan. “It was a protest — ‘If I have to pay more for this fare, he’s getting less.’ ”

Francesca Mixco, 29, from Astoria, Queens, allowed that she had become “horrible” to cabdrivers, tipping “maybe a dollar” on a typical ride. She should know better, she said. She is a bartender.

Some expected tips to rebound, as a percentage, once the novelty of the new fares had worn off. Emma Hulse, 30, from Washington Heights, said she had begun tipping 20 percent, rather than 25 percent, in a bid to keep her final fare closer to what it was before.

“You kind of set up in your mind what it’s going to be,” she said. “You still want to be around that certain mark.”

But Ms. Hulse said she had taken to using livery cabs more often as a way to get home — a service with fares that are more open to negotiation.

“I guess I do tip less,” she said. “And I get in a lot more arguments.”
42 2013-01-03 John Gaudreau had a hat trick, Riley Barber scored twice and the United States beat the Czech Republic, 7-0, in Ufa, Russia, to reach the semifinals of the world junior hockey championships. The Americans will play Canada on Thursday. Sweden, the defending champion, will face Russia in the other semifinal.
43 2013-01-03 Lift, free on iOS, is a similar motivational app, but with a community angle. The core of this app is a social network: you join groups that help you achieve a goal. For example, if your New Year’s resolution is to quit smoking, several groups can help you do so. You check in with these groups and comment on your actions and the group’s activity, and you can even earn a thumbs-up from group members for your progress.

The app lists existing groups in categories like “popular,” “fitness habits” and “learning habits,” or you can create your own group and invite friends to join you. For those who need a bit of social encouragement to stick to their resolutions, this app may be the best option.

While Lift does have reminders, they’re not the app’s main function, which means it will require a degree of willpower to remember your resolution, turn the app on and check in. The forgetful may not find it the best choice for keeping resolutions.

A new fitness or health regimen is one of the most popular New Year’s resolutions, and Fitocracy (free on iOS) is an app that can help you stick to it. It has a social group setup similar to Lift’s, but it’s exercise-centric, with a much jollier design.

For example, during setup the button to advance to the next settings page is labeled “go forth!” rather than a boring “next.” This playful attitude is really what the app is all about. It awards you points when you finish activities and has gamelike features like reward badges and even “level ups.” This combination of lightheartedness and a sense of community spirit may be exactly what you need to help you keep exercising.

For a simpler, calendar-based app to help you keep a resolution, try Streaks — Motivational Calendar ($2 on iTunes). After you’ve added a goal, you tap on the app’s calendar to cross off a day when you achieve the goal. It’s a little like playing a game; the app keeps track of the longest streak of days you’ve managed, and your current number.

Though it is much less sophisticated than the others mentioned here, it’s ideal for those pressed for time, because interacting with it is so fast. Momentum Builder is a free Android app similar to Streaks, though its design is not as polished.

I look at a bunch of other resolution-binding apps on the Gadgetwise blog.

Happy New Year from me to you! May your apps help your resolutions come true.

Google’s Zeitgeist app, free on Android, is a great way to look back at 2012. It’s an interface to Google’s report on how the world searched during the year, and it’s crammed with fascinating data. ... Nokia’s free Xpress, which compresses Web data so your phone doesn’t consume so much of your 3G or 4G data allowance, has been updated to be compatible with all Windows 8 phones. It had been limited to Nokia handsets only.
44 2013-01-03 She added that the Ruff Club, which offers scholarships and community programs, does not screen humans for hipness.

“And for dogs like yours, we provide a generous separation anxiety window,” Mr. Frost said, reassuringly. The behavioral data is entered into an iPad-ready database so that any staff member, whether a concierge or handler, knows what to expect. If an otherwise lovely dog loses its cool around, say, balls, it will be noted.

“It’s very situational,” Mr. Frost said. “All dogs are different.”

While the owners chatted with me, a dog handler named Lisa Lane (who has an advanced degree in animal behavior) had taken Zoloft downstairs to a playroom to test whether she could be easily handled. She was now whisking Zoloft past me for a walk outside.

I ran after them as fast as a helicopter parent chasing a teacher down the hall at an open house. I wanted to warn Ms. Lane that Zoloft sometimes growls and lunges at other dogs. Ms. Lane looked at me with what seemed to be amused concern. “If you stop tensing up and yanking her leash when you see other dogs, she’ll relax,” she said.

“Do you think I’m being overprotective?” I asked.

“I do,” she replied. “But dogs are like our babies.”

“Don’t worry,” Ms. Simon Frost added when we were back inside, where other dogs were undergoing interviews. “Your dog will get into a good college.”

Yes, but would she get into the Ruff Club?

OVER-THE-TOP dog spas are not all that new, of course. And the focus on exclusivity suggests the same competitive urges of urban parents obsessed with getting their toddlers into the right schools. And just as the nursery-school-age population in Manhattan has surged since 2000, particularly among wealthy white families, the pet population in New York City is now estimated at 1.1 million, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, with a 30 percent increase in the pet care industry from 2000 to 2010.

At any rate, it wouldn’t be the first time that dog care has been compared to child-rearing. “Treating your dog as a person can be a kind of aesthetic error, albeit one that’s becoming ever more common,” writes John Homans in “What’s a Dog For?” which explores the history and sociology of human-canine relationships.

The Ruff Club seizes upon this zeitgeist. “But we won’t infantilize dogs the way other spas do,” Ms. Simon Frost said. “We won’t give out report cards or talk in high-pitched voices.” She makes a point of calling her place “dog” day care not “doggy.” And unlike other high-end dog spas, the Ruff Club, which costs a competitive $29 for day boarding and $49 for overnight, doesn’t offer yoga, massage or any forms of coddling.

“We just don’t think that’s appropriate for the East Village,” she said.

To be honest, I was the one in need of coddling. Zoloft was now halfway through the screening, and because seeing me would disrupt things, I hid behind a door while a handler tested other dogs in the clinical, white downstairs playroom.

I could hear Zoloft’s anxious barking as she was brought down to socialize with others, including a Boston terrier so mild mannered and playful that I felt jealous that my own wasn’t nearly as social. In fact, all the dogs seemed to be equally playful. The only time I see Zoloft so carefree is at home, when she is playing with me.

I stood in the dark, waiting to catch a glimpse of her through a small window, expecting to see her in a corner, tail between her legs, avoiding the other dogs.

To my surprise, what I saw was her getting sniffed and then sniffing right back without lunging or cowering. And her mouth was open in a way that most trainers consider an indication of ease. “You’re a little cutie,” I heard a handler tell her.

I’m embarrassed to admit that I was choking up, like a protective parent watching the little one go off to school. Could my fur-child (as some call pets these days) function happily without me? Was it possible that my dog wasn’t as maladjusted as I had thought?

She did fantastically, the handler told me when I accosted him in the next room. “She played with another dog and wasn’t nervous at all.”

“But she didn’t play with all the other dogs,” I said.

“So she’s not as social and likes to do her own thing — nothing wrong with that,” he said. “If it’s not a big deal to you, it won’t be a big deal to her.”

It was becoming clear that Zoloft was Ruff Club material after all. She looked so comfortable with a half-dozen other dogs in the large playroom upstairs (with its high definition webcam — one of many tech features) that I wondered if our visit had a therapeutic effect on the both of us.

“She was nervous when she came in,” Ms. Lane, the chief handler, said. “But in a short time she’s improved so much. It would be nice to see her here again.”

Then she looked down at Zoloft and said, “You really came out of your shell.”

A moment later, other owners were coming in to pick up their dogs. They all tested well, and Ms. Simon Frost was telling them, with great pleasure, that they had been accepted. One owner said he was especially relieved because his dog was hyperactive from being cooped up after surgery. And the owner of that preternaturally perfect Boston terrier, who looked and sounded as self-possessed as his dog, had concerns as well.

“Her one issue is that she’s obsessed with balls,” he said. “I have to put them away or it leads to trouble at the dog run.”

Ms. Simon Frost said that balls often cause the worst fights at dog parks.

“The dog run should be ball free,” he said.

I had to smile. Even top dogs have their issues, I guess, and so do their owners.
45 2013-01-03 One man, who gave only his nickname, Abu Fuad, for safety reasons, said in a telephone interview that he had just filled up his gas tank and was driving away when he heard the screech of fighter jets.

He said he was less than a quarter-mile away when he heard the explosions.

“There were many cars waiting their turn,” he said. “Yesterday, we heard that the government sent fuel to the gas station here, so all the people around came to fill up their cars.”

In a sign of the depth of distrust the conflict has spawned, Abu Fuad suggested that restocking the station was a government ruse. “They sent fuel as a trap,” he said.

In the Damascus suburb of Moadhamiya, at least six people, most of them children from a single family, were killed when a mortar shell exploded, according to video and antigovernment activists. It was unclear who had fired the shell.

In northern Syria, rebels used rockets to attack the Taftanaz military airport, a long-contested area in Idlib Province, activists reported. Rebels have also stepped up attacks on airports in the neighboring province of Aleppo, trying to disrupt the warplanes and helicopters that government forces increasingly rely on for attacks, and even for supply lines, in the north.

The United Nations study suggested that the human toll of the war was even greater than previously estimated. Two days ago, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a rebel group that tracks the war from Britain, reported 45,000 deaths, mostly civilian, since the conflict began in March 2011.

“The number of casualties is much higher than we expected, and is truly shocking,” the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, said in a statement after her agency released the study.

“We must not compound the existing disaster by failing to prepare for the inevitable — and very dangerous — instability that will occur when the conflict ends,” she added.

To avoid repeating the experiences of collapsed states like Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, she said, “serious planning needs to get under way immediately, not just to provide humanitarian aid to all those who need it, but to protect all Syrian citizens from extrajudicial reprisals and acts of revenge.”

The study’s surprisingly high death toll reflected only those killings in which victims had been identified by their full name, and the date and location of their death had been recorded, leaving the possibility of many more dead.

Independent researchers compiled reports of more than 147,000 killings in Syria’s conflict from seven sources, including the government. When duplicates were removed, there remained a list of 59,648 people killed between March 2011 and the end of November.

Meanwhile, Mr. Foley’s brother, Michael Foley, stressed that his brother was an objective journalist, and he issued a plea to the captors, or anyone with information about the kidnapping, to contact the family.

“Jim is a completely objective and innocent journalist performing his duties,” Michael Foley said. “He’s not a political figure in any way.”

James Foley, 39, is the oldest of five children from Rochester, N.H. News outlets, including The New York Times, had not reported on his disappearance until his family spoke out.
46 2013-01-03 Both the gold and the wine are feeding a prosperity here that contrasts sharply with the slump in surrounding regions, most notably northern Italy, long a powerhouse of the European economy.

Mendrisio, with its charming old downtown streets ringed by state-of-the-art factories, embedded in steep valleys ringed with vineyards, has long been a magnet for Italians in search of work. In recent years as Europe’s borders have grown increasingly porous, and Italy suffers the effects of a debt crisis, the numbers have soared.

Every day more than 7,500 Italians clog the roads, making the trek across the border in their Hyundais and Toyotas and the occasional Fiat, coming to jobs in Mendrisio, where the local population is only 11,600. About a decade ago, before Switzerland began joining various European agreements to eliminate border controls, most were unskilled workers in farming or construction, but they are now increasingly skilled people — engineers, chemists, accountants.

Meinrad Perler is the son of a farmer in western, French-speaking Switzerland who went into banking. When that career soured, he turned to his passion, winemaking, settling in Mendrisio in the 1980s. “It’s not the ideal location, too much rain in the wrong seasons, and hot, dry summers,” he said, steering his sport utility vehicle through steep vineyards.

Still, the climate has not prevented Mr. Perler, 75, from building an annual production of 210,000 bottles a year, mostly merlot. Of his 14 full-time employees, 8 are Italians, including his chief oenologist. When he recently advertised for an accountant, 132 letters came in, more than two-thirds from Italians.

“They’ll accept a job that is lower than their qualification,” he said, and for less money.

Over at the Zanini winery, of 72 employees, about half are cross-border Italians. “The tendency is to try and find people from Ticino,” the region Mendrisio lies in, Mr. Zanini said. “But maybe there’s more desire in Italy.”

At Argor-Heraeus, Mr. Oberli badly needs engineers, chemists and metallurgists, and cannot find them locally. “In Italy now it’s a catastrophe, and given the unemployment, you easily find young, well-trained people,” he said, turned out by schools like the Technical University in Milan. About two-thirds of his employees are Italians, who drive back to their homes in Italy when the workday is done.

Of course there are benefits to employing Italians, like lower pay. The Swiss federal statistical office released figures recently showing that while the average disposable income of a Swiss is roughly $55,000, that of cross-border workers like the Italians is about $48,000.

While this gap annoys Swiss employees, who see the foreigners as competitors, employers say the difference is justified. “Taxes are less in Italy than in Switzerland,” said Marco Nauer, 49, a metals expert at Argor-Heraeus who is responsible for hiring. The cost of living is lower in Italy as well, so earnings in Swiss francs go further.

Behind Mendrisio’s neo-Classical town hall, a large parking garage is being built. The dozen or so cars of the construction workers all have Italian plates. “With the crisis in Italy, there just isn’t any work,” said Davide Grassi, 33, a cement mason from Milan who in July began driving the 40 minutes to work here every day.

For some, it is more than money. Last September, Roberta Pellin, who lives in Olgiate Comasco, Italy, a 20-minute drive across the border, opened a little vaulted flower shop along Corso Bello, a pedestrian street in Mendrisio’s old town center, after working for 25 years in the flower business in Italy.

“I evaluated the situation in Italy and decided it’s far easier in Switzerland,” said Ms. Pellin, 44. The Italian bureaucracy is crushing, she said, and the professionalism is greater in Switzerland. Moreover, Swiss laws require stores to close Sundays, unlike in Italy, where they stay open seven days a week.

“I have two kids,” she said. “It’s about quality of life.”
47 2013-01-03 She began her sales efforts in 2008 by walking into the C.O. Bigelow flagship apothecary store in Manhattan and asking, “Who does the buying here?” She left with a sale. A month or so after Eatwhatever’s debut, a friend in public relations helped her get a mention on DailyCandy’s main page. That brought $20,000 worth of orders to her Web site in 12 hours and generated plenty of buzz. With the help of a distributor, Eatwhatever soon cracked New York retail outlets like Ricky’s, Joe Coffee and Zitomer, a specialty department store; Ms. Rosshandler even opened retail beachheads in Paris and Sydney.

But lacking contracts with mass merchants, sales volume remained low. The company’s annual revenue failed to top $40,000 in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Squeezed for cash, Ms. Rosshandler could not pay for marketing or, eventually, even for her next production run. That is when she interviewed for a job selling high-fashion hair accessories.

THE OPTIONS And then, in rode her white knight. Or was he? She had networked her way to Arthur T. Shorin, an investor and former chief executive of the Topps Company, a confectionary company known for its baseball trading cards, who promised candy industry expertise and contacts and an immediate infusion of $250,000, with more to come if justified. But Mr. Shorin’s nonnegotiable terms were stark. In return, he wanted 75 percent of the enterprise. Ms. Rosshandler would retain 25 percent with the opportunity to earn back another 15 percent should certain benchmarks be met. The offer included a salaried job in Mr. Shorin’s New York company, Artuitive, an incubator for start-ups.

Friends advised Ms. Rosshandler against the deal, citing the tough terms, even if she were to rebuild her stake to 40 percent. But Mr. Shorin had impressed her in their exploratory meetings, and she asked herself this question: Isn’t 25 percent of something better than 100 percent of nothing?

WHAT OTHERS SAY Steve Schuster, founder of Schuster Products in Milwaukee, maker of Blitz mints: “Ms. Rosshandler finds herself in a precarious cash-flow position and — typical of many start-up entrepreneurs — may not completely grasp how much money she actually will need to grow her brand to a reasonable level of distribution. Arthur Shorin presents a very shrewd and unique proposition. Basically, he is her lifeline. Mr. Shorin, who made a fortune selling Topps to Michael Eisner’s private equity company, has great knowledge of the candy industry. It is imperative for Ms. Rosshandler to move forward with this proposition.”

Josh Kopelman, a partner at First Round Capital, Philadelphia: “I believe that entrepreneurs, not investors, create great companies. In my experience, if a founder doesn’t retain meaningful equity at the seed stage, it greatly reduces their motivation and creates a real misalignment between investor and entrepreneur. I’d encourage Ms. Rosshandler to keep looking for alternatives, including the possibility of raising money from her friends. If she believes the company is going to create value and be successful, then she is actually doing her friends a favor by letting them invest — assuming she is candid about the extreme level of risk and that they don’t invest money they aren’t prepared to lose. I’d encourage her to consider tweaking the branding to make it more PG-13 than R-rated, as it might reduce some investor’s unease. I know it’s hard to turn down money — especially when a company really needs it.”

Adeo Ressi, founding member of TheFunded and head of The Founder Institute, an early stage business accelerator based in Silicon Valley: “Ms. Rosshandler should definitely not take this deal. First, she loses complete control of the company, and she can be removed or wiped out of her equity at any moment without notice. Second, the deal is very unusual, so she will never be able to attract other investors again. Third, the round values the operating business under $75,000, around two times revenue. As the terms indicate, she will be an employee of Artuitive, so this deal resembles a generous employment offer rather than a viable investment. This is an angel investment opportunity, and there are the largest number of angel investors in history. On the positive side, if Ms. Rosshandler dedicates four months and meets with a lot of angels, she will raise $500,000 with a seven-figure valuation. On the negative side, she will need to meet with over 150 angels and waste a lot of time pitching to people that will try to take advantage of her, like Arthur Shorin.”

THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on the You’re the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and on this page, we will give an update on what Jacqui Rosshandler decided to do.
48 2013-01-03 1 medium red cabbage (about 1 1/2 pounds), cored and coarsely chopped or shredded (about 5 cups shredded or chopped)

1. Make the baked tofu: Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line a sheet pan with parchment. Pat the tofu dry with paper towels and cut into dominoes, about 1/3 inch thick. In a large, wide bowl whisk together all of the marinade ingredients for the tofu. Pat each square of tofu with paper towels, then dip into the marinade, making sure to coat both sides. Transfer to the baking sheet. Bake for 7 to 10 minutes, until the edges are just beginning to color and the marinade sets on the surface of the toftu. Remove from the heat and keep warm while you stir-fry the vegetables.

2. Make sure your rice is warm before beginning the stir-fry. In a small bowl or measuring cup combine the soy sauce, wine vinegar, agave nectar or sugar, water or broth, and cornstarch. Mix together well. Have all the ingredients within arm’s length of your pan.

3. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or 12-inch steel skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Swirl in the oil by adding it to the sides of the pan and swirling the pan, then add the garlic and ginger and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds. Add the red pepper and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the cabbage and sprinkle with salt. Stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes, until the vegetables begin to wilt. Stir the sweet and sour mixture and swirl it into the wok. Stir-fry 15 to 20 seconds, then cover and cook 30 seconds. Uncover and stir-fry 1 minute, or until the vegetables are crisp-tender.

4. Divide the rice among 4 warm bowls (or plates). Top with the cabbage and pepper stir fry, arrange the tofu pieces on top, and serve.

Advance preparation: The baked marinated tofu will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator. Cooked rice will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator. The stir-fry is last-minute.

Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 352 calories; 10 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 4 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 55 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 231 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 14 grams protein
49 2013-01-03 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.4 percent, or 308.41 points, to 13,412.55. The Nasdaq composite index increased by 3.1 percent, or 92.75 points, to 3,112.26.

Only 31 stocks in the S.& P. 500 dropped on Wednesday. Technology and financial stocks did particularly well, as did stocks that offer generous dividends. The agreement on Tuesday raised the tax rate on dividends to 20 percent from 15 percent, less than President Obama had proposed.

In the United States, share prices gained most in the first 30 minutes of the day and then plateaued before a brief spike just before trading closed.

Many market strategists were worried that Wednesday’s rally would not last long because of the questions that were not addressed by the fiscal accord. While the deal provides a long-term settlement on tax rates, it delayed for only two months $110 billion of spending cuts that were supposed to start on Jan. 1. Congress also put off a decision about limits on government borrowing, known as the debt ceiling.

The Treasury Department has said that the government hit the ceiling at the end of 2012 and it will be able to finance the budget only by using extraordinary measures until March. Republican leaders in the House of Representatives have said they will raise the borrowing limit only if Democrats agree to more spending cuts.

That debate may well be more fractious than what has taken place in recent weeks, analysts said.

Leon LeBrecque, the founder of the asset management firm LJPR, said that Wednesday’s rally would not last long as investors turned their attention to the unanswered questions.

“We’re in a three-act play, but we’re only through with Act 1,” said Mr. LeBrecque. “Everyone is happy about the first act. The real question is what happens next.”

The last time the government reached its borrowing limit, in 2011, Congress approved an increase at the last minute. This led Standard & Poor’s ratings services to strip the United States of its triple-A credit rating. There is widespread concern that one of the other two major credit ratings agencies will lower their rating of American government debt in the coming months.

On Wednesday, Moody’s Investors Service said that the fiscal pact did not help the nation’s debt and deficit problems and “will likely be a constraint on growth in coming quarters.” It said the looming negotiations over spending cuts and lifting the debt ceiling add “uncertainty to the outcome of negotiations.”

“The debt trajectory resulting from this process is likely to determine whether the Aaa rating is returned to a stable outlook or downgraded” by one notch to Aa1, the Moody’s report said.

But there is hope in some quarters of Wall Street that with each new crisis, and each last-minute fix, the risks to the markets grow less severe as investors become convinced that politicians eventually find solutions to their disagreements. Michael Purves, the chief global strategist for Weeden & Company, compared the debates in Washington to horror movies: “Once you see the first movie, the sequels are never as scary.”

He said that at least for the near term, the resolution in Washington should allow investors to focus on the growing signs of improvements in the American economy.

The Institute for Supply Management said on Wednesday that manufacturing in the United States expanded slightly in December. Its manufacturing activity index rose to 50.7 points in December, up from 49.5 in November. Even more important data will come on Friday, when the monthly jobs report is released.

In the bond market, investors sold off the longer-dated Treasuries that have been used as safe havens in recent years. The price of the Treasury’s 10-year note fell 22/32, to 98 4/32, while its yield rose to 1.84 percent, from 1.76 percent late Monday.
50 2013-01-04 On a Sunday afternoon in 1971, an engineer stepped out of his house in , N.C., to consult his boss, who lived across the street. “I didn’t do what you asked,” George Laurer confessed.

Laurer had been instructed to design a code that could be printed on food labels and that would be compatible with the scanners then in development for supermarket checkout counters. He was told to model it on the bull’s-eye-shaped optical scanning code designed in the 1940s by N. Joseph Woodland, who died last month. But Laurer saw a problem with the shape: “When you run a circle through a high-speed press, there are parts that are going to get smeared,” he says, “so I came up with my own code.” His system, a pattern of stripes, would be readable even if it was poorly printed.

That pattern became the basis for the Universal Product Code, which was adopted by a consortium of grocery companies in 1973, when cashiers were still punching in all prices by hand. Within a decade, the U.P.C. — and optical scanners — brought supermarkets into the digital age. Now an employee could ring up a cereal box with a flick of the wrist. “When people find out that I invented the U.P.C., they think I’m rich,” Laurer says. But he received no royalties for this invention, and I.B.M. did not patent it.

As the U.P.C. symbol proliferated, so, too, did paranoia about it. For decades, Laurer has been hounded by people convinced that he has hidden the number 666 inside the lines of his code. “I didn’t get the meat,” Laurer said ruefully, “but I did get the nuts.”

CODE BREAKER

Bill Selmeier runs the ID History Museum, an online archive dedicated to the bar code.

You worked at I.B.M. in the 1970s and then helped promote the U.P.C.? 

Yes, I started the seminars where we invited people from the grocery and labeling industry into I.B.M. We were there to reduce their fear.

What were they afraid of?

They were afraid that anything that didn’t work right would reflect badly on them — particularly if it was only their own package that wouldn’t scan. The guy from Birds Eye said, “My stuff always has ice on it when it goes through the checkout.” So we put his package in the freezer and took it out and showed him how it scanned perfectly.
51 2013-01-04 The mystique of Brooklyn, and its beer, alight on Stockholm's harbor....
52 2013-01-04 More than a spending bill, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 also includes provisions dealing with military suicides and the accommodation of the conscience, moral principles or religious beliefs of service members....
53 2013-01-04 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
54 2013-01-04 A new study of driving behavior across the country found that slightly more than 4 percent of adults admit to having fallen asleep at the wheel....
55 2013-01-04 "It seems that a lot of things in my life are up in the air," writes Chandler Buckingham, a student at Rogers High School in Rogers, Ark., "and the suspense is threatening to wear me down."...
56 2013-01-04 Since offering to name a character in his next novel after the person who finds his lost beagle, Tessa, Dennis Lehane has not yet located the dog. But an online search effort continues....
57 2013-01-04 A new graduate-school graduate with a new job and a young child is worried about the long business trips (three to six weeks) that are the norm in the field. How do parents handle the travel?...
58 2013-01-04 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Thursday, selections include Internet technologies spreading into more industries, which Web sites share what information and the latest...
59 2013-01-04 CAIRO — The Egyptian government on Thursday remained mired in a dispute between the Muslim Brotherhood, the country’s leading Islamist movement, and the United Arab Emirates, which this week said that it had arrested several Egyptians accused of forming a Brotherhood cell, stealing state secrets and conspiring with Brotherhood leaders in Egypt.

A high-level Egyptian delegation that included the country’s intelligence chief flew to the United Arab Emirates this week to discuss the case of the imprisoned Egyptians, and to quiet escalating hostilities marked by accusations of meddling in each other’s internal affairs. The crisis has posed a challenge to Egypt’s president, Mohamed Morsi, a former leader of the Brotherhood, who represents a country trying to refresh its regional relationships while his critics continue to associate him with the Islamist group and its much narrower agenda.

Complicating efforts to defuse the tension, a Muslim Brotherhood spokesman in Cairo on Thursday accused individuals in the emirates of a “conspiracy” to support members of Egypt’s deposed government. The spokesman, Mohamed Ghozlan, said he was not accusing the government of being part of the conspiracy, but rather individuals including the chief of police in Dubai, one of the Brotherhood’s loudest critics, and Ahmed Shafiq, a former Egyptian minister and presidential candidate who has taken up residence in the emirates.

Mr. Ghozlan’s comments highlighted an atmosphere of deepening mistrust between the Brotherhood and leaders in the United Arab Emirates since the Islamist group took power after the fall of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. The monarchies of the Persian Gulf have reacted with growing alarm to the revolutions in Egypt and other Arab countries, defending against the spread of the uprisings by spending money to placate citizens and cracking down on dissidents.

Officials in the emirates, which had close relations with Mr. Mubarak’s government, have leveled steady criticism at the Brotherhood, accusing it of “exporting” the revolution. Last year, the authorities there arrested 60 people whom they accused of belonging to a local Brotherhood-affiliated movement and of trying to establish an Islamic state.
60 2013-01-04 “I think there is a certain sensitivity to the social conditions behind these abortions, such as poverty or rape or teenage pregnancy,” explained Paula Vial, a lawyer and former public defender in Santiago.

Beyond the legal consequences, the 30 hot line volunteers are keenly aware of the social ramifications of taking an active role in such a polarizing issue. They wear masks when promoting the hot line at public gatherings, and are often vague about the details of their volunteer work in their daily lives. Many fear losing their jobs or driving a wedge into personal and family relationships. Indeed, Ms. Erpel was the only volunteer willing to go on the record about her work with the hot line, and even she is usually circumspect about it.

“It’s complicated,” she explained. “I’m open about being in an organization, but not necessarily that I work directly with abortion.”

Abortion was not always a clandestine affair in Chile. The current law that strictly bans it was one of the final acts of the dictatorship. In 1989, shortly before relinquishing power, Gen. Augusto Pinochet ended a tradition of legal abortion dating to 1931, in which a pregnancy that threatened a woman’s life, or a fetus that was not viable outside the womb, could be terminated. Chile’s law now is one of the strictest in the world.

By contrast, Uruguay legalized abortions in the first trimester for any reason last October, joining Guyana and Cuba as Latin American countries with broadly legalized procedures. Abortion is also legal in Mexico City. But Chile has remained a socially conservative country, after 20 years of economic growth and the election in 2006 of a woman as president.

“The hierarchy of the Catholic Church has had a very strong influence in public policy,” said Claudia Dides, a spokeswoman for the Movement for the Legal Interruption of Pregnancy.

In a pivotal case in 2008, Karen Espíndola, then 22, learned in her 12th week of pregnancy that her fetus had holoprosencephaly. Fetuses with the condition have a single-lobed brain, and most die before they are born. It is a common reason for terminating a pregnancy.

Ms. Espíndola sought an abortion, appealing to the president and setting off a national conversation over abortion. In February 2009, Ms. Espíndola gave birth to Osvaldo, who died in 2011.

“In reality he was never conscious he was alive,” she lamented. “He fought to breathe; he was fed through a tube. We all suffered a lot. Nobody here is a winner.”

Chile has witnessed a swell of liberal social movements in recent years, with gay men and lesbians pressing for the country’s first hate-crime legislation, environmentalists stalling dam-building projects in Patagonia, and students pushing for an overhaul of the education system.

Advocates contend that abortion rights sentiment bubbles near the surface as well, but the government has pushed back.

After criticizing the abortion hot line in the news media, the Ministry of Women started a hot line of its own. It is attended by psychologists and social workers who answer calls from men or women looking for information or support when facing what the ministry calls an “abortion situation” or “post-abortion syndrome.”

“Maternity, one of the most satisfactory experiences in the life of a woman, can go through difficult and desperate moments,” Minister Carolina Schmidt said at the time the government hot line began.

Other influential anti-abortion organizations offer to guide women considering abortion away from the procedure.

“If you help that person define what is troubling them and making them think of an abortion, and together you find a solution, in the end the person decides for life and her child,” said Victoria Reyes, director of assistance for Foundation Chile United. “We are convinced the second victim of abortion is the woman; the woman who has an abortion carries that guilt.”

The government reported several hundred adoptions in 2011, but it estimates 120,000 abortions, in a country with a population of about six million women from 15 to 64 years old.

Misoprostol, sold under the brand name Misotrol in Chile, has changed the way many of those abortions are performed. The drug was originally developed as an ulcer medication, and its warning label advised that, in excess, misoprostol would cause a woman to miscarry. Before long, women in countries with little or no access to safe abortions were using the drug to do that very thing.

Misoprostol “is a revolution for women,” said Rebecca Gomperts, founder of the Dutch organization Women on Waves. “Even where abortion is illegal and women don’t have a doctor, or they are poor, they still have a way to do a safe abortion.”

The abortion hot line is Ms. Gomperts’s creation. A medical doctor and former Greenpeace activist, she realized in 1999 that it was possible for a ship sailing under a Dutch flag to take women from countries where abortion is illegal to international waters to administer misoprostol.

Before departing Chile, Women on Waves helped set up the abortion hot line, training volunteers how to discuss misoprostol according to World Health Organization guidelines.

There are now five abortion hot lines in South America: in Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela.

Misoprostol was taken off pharmacy shelves in Chile under Michelle Bachelet, the former president who now runs the United Nations’ agency for women’s advancement, so access to the drug is almost entirely a black market transaction.

Dozens of Web sites offer misoprostol at exorbitant prices, and sometimes of dubious quality.

One 29-year-old lawyer who became pregnant a few months ago said she paid $300 for the necessary 12 pills.

“To meet someone in a clandestine place, hoping they aren’t a police officer, wondering if they are even giving you the right pills, knowing that you could go to prison when all you want to do is exercise your right as a woman is horrifying,” the lawyer said on the condition of anonymity to avoid prosecution.

To its volunteers, the Safe Abortion Hot Line stands as a simple equation — 30 women and a single cellphone that gets passed among them. This month, they expanded: they released an abortion manual on using misoprostol.

Occasionally, women call back the hot line after a successful abortion, but more often the volunteers never know the outcome.

“That’s always the hardest part,” Ms. Erpel said.
61 2013-01-04 “I think women bring a slightly different perspective,” said Representative Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, who is one of the first female combat veterans elected to Congress, as is Representative Tulsi Gabbard, Democrat of Hawaii. “The women, I think, are going to reach across the aisle a lot more. We’re a lot more pragmatic, but we do come from all different backgrounds.”

This Congress promises to be more diverse than its predecessors in several ways. On hand at the Capitol were Tammy Baldwin, Democrat of Wisconsin, the first openly gay senator; the first Hindu representative, Ms. Gabbard; and Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, the first Buddhist senator. Representative Kyrsten Sinema, Democrat of Arizona. also became the first openly bisexual member to serve in Congress.

Although the number of black legislators remained at 43, Tim Scott, previously a Republican House member from South Carolina, became the first black senator from his state, as well as the first black Republican in the Senate since 1979.

After she was sworn in for her second term, Senator Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat, said women were making progress in the Senate. “I don’t think we should be satisfied until we have the same number of women in the Senate that represent the percentage of the population that are women, so we still have a long way to go,” she said.

The day began on a touching note, when Senator Mark Steven Kirk, the Illinois Republican who was returning to Congress after a stroke last January, climbed the steps to the Senate chamber with the help of a cane and the moral support of his colleagues. He was met by the Illinois delegation, most of the Senate, and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who greeted him with a hug. Mr. Kirk may also have some explaining to do to Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican and vice-presidential rival to Mr. Biden, after Mr. Kirk told the vice president, “It was a good debate. I was rooting for you.”

When Mr. Kirk, his face contorted in concentration, slowed near the top of the steps, his colleagues called out “Almost there!” and “A few more!” and then erupted in applause when he reached the landing, triumphant.

On the House side, the first day was filled with familiar ritual — the children romping in the well of the House, the speaker’s roll call vote — but there were also some sweet notes.

Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who is recovering from treatment for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, sat in the chamber with his children beside him. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington wandered the aisles with her daughter on her hip.

The opening of the 113th Congress had a decidedly first day of school feeling, with many of the members flanked by proud parents, as well as children of their own. Some freshman members wandered around, half awe-struck and half bewildered, and many aides did not yet have business cards.

“We just moved in,” they said apologetically, over and over.

As the afternoon darkened to evening, House members lined up to have their mock swearing-in picture taken with John A. Boehner of Ohio, narrowly and newly re-elected speaker of the House. Representative Andy Barr, a freshman Republican from Kentucky, stood with his wife, Carol, and their 21-month-old daughter, Eleanor, whom Mr. Boehner kissed on the cheek. Eleanor promptly wiped it away.

“Oh, she’s a big fan of the speaker,” Mr. Barr said later. “She just hasn’t had a nap today!”

Representative Joe Kennedy III, a Massachusetts Democrat and the newest elected member of the Kennedy clan, was fending off rumors that he had higher office on his mind on his first day in the House. After Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, who will vacate his Senate seat if he is confirmed as President Obama’s next secretary of state, pulled Mr. Kennedy aside for a chat, a reporter jokingly asked if Mr. Kennedy was considering a run for Mr. Kerry’s seat.

“I’m definitely not, so let’s get that as the very first thing,” Mr. Kennedy replied, with a laugh. “I’m very happy where I am right now.”

Over at the member photo check-in table, aides were offering lessons in Congress 101: Remember, they warned, when you go before cameras to have your picture taken with Mr. Boehner, be careful what you say.

The microphones will pick everything up, and members would be well advised to avoid a gaffe on opening day. There will be plenty of time for that later.
62 2013-01-04 A sixth man has pleaded guilty in racially motivated attacks by young whites against blacks in Jackson. Joseph Paul Dominick, 21, of Brandon pleaded guilty Thursday to conspiracy to commit a hate crime. He faces up to five years in prison. Prosecutors say that starting about April 2011, the group drove from mostly white Rankin County into Jackson, where they harassed and assaulted blacks. The attacks culminated in the death of James Craig Anderson in June 2011, which prompted the investigation. Prosecutors say Mr. Dominick did not participate in the killing but was part of other group attacks, in which he threw bottles and used slingshots against blacks.
63 2013-01-04 There are some 20,000 untested rape kits sitting on evidence shelves in police departments across Texas, the state Department of Public Safety estimates. Each box with samples of hair, skin and clothing represents one of the worst moments of the victim’s life, a crime that was followed by hours in a doctor’s office submitting the most personal evidence.

“For nothing to be done with it is a revictimization of that person,” said Victoria Camp, deputy director of the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault. “And I think that is unfair.”

In 2011, Texas lawmakers approved a bill by Senator Wendy Davis, Democrat of Fort Worth, that required law enforcement agencies to audit the number of untested rape kits in their evidence rooms and report that information to the Department of Public Safety. Now that the state has counted the number of kits, lawmakers will have to determine in the 2013 session how much money it will take to clear the backlog.

“We’ll have to go back in next session and see what we can come up with,” Ms. Davis said.

Over the years, thousands of untested kits collected in police evidence rooms, a result of tight budgets, overworked crime labs and a common law enforcement philosophy that testing rape kits was useful only if a stranger had committed the assault.

As law enforcement agencies test the kits and identify DNA from assailants, Ms. Davis and advocates for sexual assault victims are hoping to track down rapists and solve cases.
64 2013-01-04 There’s still residual energy in the music of the pianist Lennie Tristano’s circle from the late 1940s and 1950s. The tunes are beautiful and charged: breezy on the surface but almost scarily focused within themselves, with their strange phrase lengths, metrical games over steady 4/4 time, long lines of straight eighth notes intermittently flicking into double time, harmonic elasticity, constant invention. They can easily be reimagined, because they were themselves reimaginings — of standards, of bebop phrasing, of what rhythm sections should do and not do.

Background Music, an on-and-off quintet of New York improvisers in their 30s and 40s led by the alto saxophonist Oscar Noriega, performs nothing but the music of that circle. The rest of the band includes the tenor saxophonist Chris Speed, the pianist Matt Mitchell, the bassist Trevor Dunn and the drummer Dan Weiss. The repertory comes from Tristano, who died in 1978; Warne Marsh, who died in 1987; and Lee Konitz, who’s still out there, sometimes with Mr. Weiss on drums. (The band’s dry-humor name is the name of a Marsh tune based on “All of Me,” recorded in 1955 on the album “Lee Konitz With Warne Marsh.”) It had its third gig on Wednesday night at Barbès in Brooklyn, and the set ran through half the band’s repertory, including its namesake song.

And it needed a little warm-up time; those three gigs have been spread over a year. But about 20 minutes in, during Tristano’s “Ablution” (based on “All the Things You Are”), the band seemed to realize what it wanted from this music, how to support it and fight against it, how to open up new spaces within it. The level of the playing rose. One by one the musicians started to play some of the best stuff I’ve heard from each. If Tristano’s music has a clinical or schematic aspect — it does sometimes — they chose to ignore it. The music became flashing and intense and seemed ready to go anywhere.

The themes of these tunes, which on Wednesday also included Tristano’s “317 East 32nd Street” and “April,” and Mr. Konitz’s “Subconscious-Lee,” sound like shaped and edited improvisations or contrapuntal discussions; harmonized or played in unison between alto and tenor saxophones, they kick-started good playing. Mr. Noriega shared the themes with Mr. Speed, and then their styles split apart dramatically: Mr. Noriega toward short and errant bursts of notes that seemed to mirror Mr. Weiss’s drum breaks, Mr. Speed toward cool, evenhanded, melodic improvising with split-tones and rasps carefully applied.

When Mr. Mitchell accompanied other players’ solos, even in reduced mode he wouldn’t let you forget about him. He played slow, tense figures, or hit semisour chords dramatically, making his touch sticky and strange. And his solos had nothing to do with Tristano, until they did. (In “Background Music” he played a rhythmically tense structures of long, dark, unbroken single-note lines mostly below middle C, a roiling and severe representation of the kind of thing Tristano liked to do.) Mr. Weiss turned the music’s original architecture upside down. Where the old records often reduced the drummer’s role, he expanded it, playing polymetrically through accompaniment and solos, hungrily picking up phrases from Mr. Mitchell, creating studies in constant variation.

There were no licks in the band’s playing, nothing recycled. If you’re going to serve this music you have to live by its originality. This group did.
65 2013-01-04 “She made it happen,” said Alice Kessler-Harris, a history professor at Columbia. “She established women’s history as not just a valid but a central area of scholarship. If you look at any library today, you will see hundreds of books on the subject.”

Gerda Hedwig Kronstein was born on April 30, 1920, in Vienna, where her father, Robert, owned a large pharmacy. Her mother, the former Ilona Neumann, a free-spirited bohemian at heart, tried unsuccessfully to reconcile her budding career as an artist with her duties as a housewife and mother. This struggle made a marked impression on her daughter.

Immediately after Germany annexed Austria in 1938, Dr. Lerner’s father, a Jew, was tipped off that he was about to be arrested. As a hedge, he had started a pharmacy in Liechtenstein, and there he fled, whereupon the Gestapo arrested his wife and daughter to force his return. Five weeks later, after he sold his Austrian assets for a nominal sum, his wife and daughter were released and left for Liechtenstein as well.

“It was the most important experience of my life, because I didn’t think that I was going to come out alive,” Dr. Lerner told The Chicago Tribune in 1993.

A more thorough investigation by the Gestapo might have revealed that their young prisoner had been doing underground work for the Communists for several years.

Through a marriage of convenience, Gerda Kronstein made her way to New York, where she worked in menial jobs and trained at Sydenham Hospital in Harlem as an X-ray technician. As a saleswoman at a Fifth Avenue candy store, she was fired after she reported her employers to the Labor Department for paying their factory workers less than the minimum wage.

In 1941, she married Carl Lerner, a theater director and Communist who helped her polish her halting English by having her repeat tongue-twisters like “Mae West is wearing a vest.” The couple moved to Hollywood, where Mr. Lerner became an apprentice film editor.

Dr. Lerner placed a short story based on her jail experience, “Prisoners,” in The Clipper, a liberal literary journal, joined the Communist Party and began working with community groups to organize supermarket boycotts and neighborhood child care centers.

“I was unduly intense, super-serious, incapable of small talk or the kind of friendly gossip that hold acquaintances together,” she wrote in “Fireweed: A Political Autobiography” (2002). “My perfectionism, insistence on anti-fascist commitment in word and deed, and general ‘heaviness’ as a person set me apart from others.”

Because of his politics, Mr. Lerner found it increasingly hard to find work in Hollywood, so in 1949 the couple returned to New York, where he became a top film editor, working on “Twelve Angry Men,” “Requiem for a Heavyweight,” “Klute” and other films. In 1964, the two collaborated on the film “Black Like Me,” based on the 1961 book by the Southern white journalist John Howard Griffin that recounted his experiences disguised as a black man in the Deep South. Mr. Lerner directed, and together they helped adapt the book for film.

Mr. Lerner died in 1973 after a long illness that Dr. Lerner wrote about in “A Death of One’s Own” (1978). Her survivors include a sister, Nora Kronstein; a daughter, Stephanie Lerner; a son, Dan; and four grandchildren.

Dr. Lerner, with great difficulty, found a publisher for “No Farewell” (1955), a novel about the coming of fascism to Austria, but by the late 1950s she faced uncertain prospects as a writer. With thoughts of writing a historical novel, she began researching the lives of Sarah and Angelina Grimké, daughters of a wealthy plantation owner, who traveled throughout the United States proselytizing for the American Anti-Slavery Society.

The novel never materialized, but her research led to a new career. She began taking history courses at the New School for Social Research, where, while still an undergraduate, she taught “Great Women in American History.” It was one of the first courses ever given in the United States on women’s history.

After earning her bachelor’s degree from the New School in 1963, she enrolled at Columbia, her work on the Grimké sisters in hand, to study women’s history. Bending the rules, the university allowed her to complete her master’s and doctorate in three years. In 1967, she published “The Grimké Sisters from South Carolina: Rebels Against Slavery.”

At Sarah Lawrence, where Dr. Lerner began teaching history in 1968, she was the driving force behind what is widely credited as the first graduate program in women’s history in the United States, established in 1972.

At the same time, after writing the textbook “The Woman in American History” (1971), Dr. Lerner began gathering documentary material that would allow other scholars to write women’s history. Her material was published in two important sourcebooks, “Black Women in White America: A Documentary History” (1972) and “The Female Experience: Documents in American History” (1976).

In 1980, she joined the history department at Wisconsin-Madison, where she created the university’s doctoral program in women’s history. She retired from Wisconsin in 1991. In 1981, she became the first woman in 50 years to be elected president of the Organization of American Historians. The Lerner-Scott Prize, named in honor of her and Anne Firor Scott, another pioneer in women’s history, has been given annually since 1992 for the best doctoral dissertation on women’s history in the United States.

Dr. Lerner wrote two ambitious studies on women and society: “The Creation of Patriarchy” (1986) and “The Creation of Feminist Consciousness” (1997). Many of her essays were collected in “The Majority Finds Its Past: Placing Women in History” (1979) and “Why History Matters” (1997).

“I want women’s history to be legitimate, to be part of every curriculum on every level,” she wrote in “Living With History/Making Social Change” (2009), a collection of autobiographical essays. “I want people to be able to take Ph.D.’s in the subject and not have to say they are doing something else.”
66 2013-01-04 PARIS — As much as many Americans, the Swiss love their guns, seeing them as integral to their national traditions of self-reliance, independence and international neutrality, with a trained and equipped citizen-army capable of deterring any foolish invader. Many Swiss, after serving in the army, keep their service weapons at home, and the country has no national register for firearms.

Only two years ago, in February 2011, the Swiss handily rejected restrictions on gun ownership in a national referendum.

Those views are unlikely to change soon, even after a mentally imbalanced man shot and killed three women and wounded two men in the southern Swiss village of Daillon on Wednesday evening. The gunman, who was known to the authorities but not thought to be dangerous, was wounded by the police as they arrested him and is now in intensive care.

The gunman, 33, who was not identified, had been placed in a psychiatric ward in 2005, when guns he then owned were taken from him and destroyed, according to the Swiss police in the canton of Valais, about 60 miles east of Geneva. It is not known how he got the arms he used in the killings — including a hunting gun and a Swiss Army carbine in use in the first half of the last century, a regional public prosecutor, Catherine Seppey, said at a news conference — but guns are easily available in Switzerland.

According to villagers who spoke to local news agencies, the gunman was unemployed, on welfare and getting psychiatric care, and was a ward of the court. On Wednesday around 9 p.m., he began firing from his apartment toward passers-by in the street and neighboring buildings before going outside and continuing to fire as many as 20 shots. He had been drinking heavily, some villagers told the Swiss Web site 20minutes.ch.
67 2013-01-04 The children and grandchildren of members romped through the House chamber, and lawmakers clapped one another on the back. The young son of Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of , slept, slumped against his father. Newly elected Representative , Democrat of , displayed her grievous wounds from the war in , wearing a skirt that revealed two prosthetic legs, with red pumps on her feet.

“I hope with all my heart that we will find common ground that is a higher, better place for our country,” said Representative of , the Democratic leader, before she handed the gavel to Mr. Boehner. “Surely we can be touched by the better angels of our nature.”

But discord was on plain display in the roll call vote for speaker as Mr. Boehner weathered defections from the rank and file to defeat Ms. Pelosi by a vote of 220 to 192. Other nominees — among them the defeated House member and firebrand of ; Mr. Boehner’s own second-in-command, Representative of ; and retired Gen. — drew 14 protest votes from members of both parties.

The tension around Mr. Boehner, who was elected unanimously by House Republicans two years ago, showed in the long, pomp-filled roll call vote, in which each member was called on to publicly announce a choice. A dozen Republicans either voted for someone other than Mr. Boehner, voted “present” or remained silent even though they were in the chamber. It was not until the very last votes that Mr. Boehner cleared the majority he needed.

Some mavericks were members who have been thorns in the speaker’s side for two years, like three representatives who were thrown off committees late last year: Tim Huelskamp of , who voted for Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio; Justin Amash of , who voted for a fellow sophomore conservative, Raúl R. Labrador of ; and Walter B. Jones of , who voted for David Walker, the former comptroller.

“I think it was a vote of no confidence,” Mr. Huelskamp said. “In this town the intimidation was intense. There were a lot of members who wanted to vote no.”

House Republican leadership aides denied any such tactics and said rumors of strong-arming were unfounded.

A few who opposed Mr. Boehner were newcomers, signaling a new generation of dissent. Representative Jim Bridenstine of voted for Mr. Cantor, and Representative Thomas Massie of , who prevailed in the Republican primary last year with the help of young acolytes, voted for Mr. Amash. Representative Ted Yoho, Republican of Florida, started his career in the House by voting for Mr. Cantor, to “send a statement,” he said.

Representative Steve Stockman, a Texas Republican who served for one term in the 1990s, voted present. And as their names were called repeatedly for their votes, Mr. Labrador looked down at his desk and Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of , stood silently in the back of the chamber, arms crossed, staring at the House well.

On the other side of the aisle, the dwindling ranks of Southern Democrats showed that Ms. Pelosi is seen as a liability in some quarters. Representative , Democrat of , voted for Mr. Powell. Representative John Barrow voted for Representative , his fellow Democrat and a civil rights icon.

The agenda laid out by both Mr. Boehner and Senator , the Republican leader in the Senate, jibed well with the demands of small-government conservatives who have complained that neither leader has been sufficiently confrontational with Mr. Obama.

Both said cutting spending would be front and center, putting them on a collision course with the president and Democratic leaders. And neither was taking seriously the president’s pledge not to bargain over raising the government’s statutory borrowing ceiling.

“In a couple of months, the president will ask us to raise the nation’s ,” Mr. McConnell said. “We cannot agree to increase that borrowing limit without agreeing to reforms that lower the avalanche of spending that’s creating this debt in the first place.”

Partisan battles are brewing on issues beyond the budget, including on , gun control and welfare programs.

Among the new rules of the House adopted Thursday, one requires committees to identify potentially duplicative programs when considering the creation of new programs or reauthorizing existing ones. Another will require annual budget resolutions to contain information about the growth of entitlement programs, like food stamps, a senior Republican leadership aide said.

The new rules will also authorize House lawyers to continue a legal defense of the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as a legal bond exclusively between a man and a woman. That angered Democrats who say it is a frivolous expenditure of dollars when the Justice Department has declined to defend the law’s constitutionality.

The first day of 113th Congress included some hopeful notes, especially the return of Senator , Republican of Illinois, a year after he suffered a major stroke.

Vice President greeted him with a hug and a “Welcome back, man!”
68 2013-01-05 The Knicks' forward commemorated the death of his brother, Hazell, who died in a traffic accident, by inviting 30 children to a game against the Orlando Magic....
69 2013-01-05 Pictures From the Week in Business
70 2013-01-05 Efforts to keep a crucial stretch of the drought-starved Mississippi River open to barge traffic should be sufficient to avert a shipping shutdown, officials from the Army Corps of Engineers and the Coast Guard said Friday. The corps said crews had made “fantastic” progress recently in clearing bedrock from a channel about 100 miles south of St. Louis. Shipping groups warned this week that the water level there could drop to three feet deep, a point at which weight restrictions for barges would have to be tightened further, effectively halting traffic.
71 2013-01-05 Wind squalls that howled down the mountains above Maui, Hawaii, were so severe that the opening round of the Tournament of Champions was scrapped.
72 2013-01-05 WASHINGTON — President Obama drew criticism last month for allowing unlimited corporate donations to finance his inaugural festivities. But when his inaugural planners released the names of donors late Friday afternoon, only a handful of companies were on the list of several hundred contributors.

AT&T, Financial Innovations Inc. (a supplier of Democratic-themed merchandise to presidential campaigns and conventions), the biotech firm Genentech; StreamLine L.L.C. and the Whittier Trust Company were among the corporate sponsors. Individual names made up much of the rest of the list, available on the inaugural committee’s Web site.

The committee said it posted the list, which will be updated regularly, in keeping with its “commitment to transparency.” But the document does not contain the amount of the donations; that will become available 90 days after the inaugural, when the Federal Election Commission makes the committee’s financing report public.
73 2013-01-05 “It’s a monumental effort to put a deal together like this, and you need well-heeled partners,” said Mark A. Snell, president of , which is based in and is applying for permits to turn around a Hackberry, La., import terminal for export. “There are only a handful of people who can do this kind of thing.”

At least 15 proposed terminal projects have filed regulatory applications to export gas, and if all were approved, they could export more than 25 billion cubic feet a day, equivalent to more than a third of domestically consumed natural gas.

Environmental advocates say that kind of surge in demand would produce a frenzy of shale drilling dependent on hydraulic fracturing of hard rocks, an industrial method they say endangers local water supplies and pollutes the air. , a big user of natural gas, and some other manufacturers express concerns that an export boom could threaten to raise natural gas prices for factories and consumers and, ultimately, kill jobs.

Opponents are already lobbying the Obama administration to reject most of the planned terminals, and protests have already occurred. Sempra, , and others have already built import terminals on the Gulf of Mexico. With docking facilities and giant gas tanks already built on land they had acquired and received permits for, they have a huge advantage over companies that have not yet built terminals. Cheniere, the only company to secure an export license, already has entered long-term purchase agreements for its L.N.G., and several other companies are only a few steps behind.

Dominion Power, which operates a nearly idle import terminal near Cove Point on Chesapeake Bay in , is also expected to proceed with a conversion to exports, since it is strategically located near the mid-Atlantic gas fields of the Marcellus Shale.

“You have got to be able to change, adapt as changes take place in the world,” said Michael E. Gardner, manager of the Cove Point plant.

The companies with import terminals now wanting to export won a victory in December when an Energy Department report said exports of L.N.G. could produce $30 billion a year in export earnings without driving up domestic gas prices significantly.

Many energy specialists expect the Obama administration to approve several export license applications in the next couple of years, and exports could begin as soon as 2015.

The plans for a gas export boom are based on the theory that cheap American gas will remain cheap for decades while Asian and European gas supplies remain tight and expensive. Global demand for natural gas is expected to expand for decades as nations seek a replacement for coal, and increasingly expensive , energy specialists say.

If the American terminals could be built tomorrow, they would have a perfect market opportunity. The production glut in the United States has reduced natural gas prices in this country by more than two-thirds since 2008.

Gas prices in most other places around the world are much higher because they are linked to oil, which has remained comparatively expensive. Gas prices in the United States are around $3.30 per thousand cubic feet, compared with $10 to $11 in Europe and over $15 in Asia.

But analysts say that the price spread could quickly shrink as a host of factors converge. Gas prices in the United States will face upward pressure as exports rise, electric utilities switch to gas-fired plants from coal, and companies use more natural gas in manufacturing and for fleet vehicles.

“With rising U.S. gas prices, U.S. L.N.G. could be priced out of the market,” said Noel Tomnay, head of global gas research at the consultancy Wood Mackenzie. “Even without L.N.G. exports, the price of gas will go up.”

The indexing of Asian and European gas to oil prices is beginning to erode. At the same time, huge natural gas pipelines are being built around Asia to supply , while new gas finds around , East Africa and the eastern Mediterranean are likely to flood the markets with more L.N.G. , a major global gas producer, is also moving aggressively to protect its markets.

And the cost of shipping and processing liquefied gas will cut into American suppliers’ competitiveness.

Nikos Tsafos, a gas analyst at PFC Energy, said if the current gas price of slightly less than $3.30 per thousand cubic feet rose to $6, “by the time it gets to Asia, it’s double that price and that means there is no arbitrage.” The biggest threat, over the long term, is the spread of the American shale boom overseas. The United States has a big lead; shale drilling has been slow to get started in Europe, and because of environmental concerns, water shortages and political obstacles.

But China, which potentially has more shale resources than the United States, is poised for development. And , and are moving forward with more shale drilling.

Resistance from environmental groups like the could help stop some export projects, especially outside the Gulf of Mexico region, which has long been comfortable with the oil and gas industry. And manufacturers like Dow Chemical are campaigning against unfettered exports to keep their costs down.

Over all, these factors will make it challenging for export projects to raise enough financing. L.N.G. terminal developers note that more than 20 import terminals proposed a decade ago were never built because of local opposition or lack of government permits and financing.

“Can all these projects get financed? That’s a good question,” said Marvin Odum, president of Company, which is looking at various possible L.N.G. terminal sites to invest in. “The outcome of this is not likely to be unlimited L.N.G. exports.”

Charif Souki, Cheniere’s chief executive, predicted that by 2018, the country would manage to export only one billion to two billion cubic feet of gas a day, or roughly 2 percent of current domestic consumption. In 10 years, after two to four projects have received permits and have been built, he said he expected exports to grow to three billion to five billion cubic feet a day. The total global production of L.N.G. is about 40 billion cubic feet a day, and growing rapidly.

George Biltz, Dow Chemical’s vice president for energy and climate change, said that exports that come near Mr. Souki’s projections would ease Dow’s concerns. “That is a range that I think will maintain a competitive advantage for the United States,” he said.
74 2013-01-05 We’ll read them all and publish the best on our Bucks personal finance blog.

There is more on our editorial criteria and the logistics down below, but if you’re trying to figure out what counts as a money essay, think broadly, as many applicants have in recent years. “An essay ought to try to fill in the gaps, to tell us things that we don’t know about you,” said Erica Sanders, managing director of the office of undergraduate admissions at the University of Michigan.

Your guidance counselor and teachers who are writing letters of support for your application may not know about or think to write about your family’s financial status, good or bad. “Maybe a parent had to move out of town for work, and the student writes about taking on more responsibility, that it allowed them to take on more leadership and to contribute to their family in a way that they didn’t even know was possible,” she added, echoing essays she’s read in recent years.

Even if your family has not struggled or become fabulously wealthy, an essay about your part-time job certainly qualifies. “Many of our engineering students will talk about building something and the costs of putting it together,” Ms. Sanders said.

Aside from the Madoff essay, Mr. Perez has read other Pitzer applicant essays and had other conversations with applicants about money and the economy in recent years that have stuck with him.

“One student last year was very affected by the whole conversation about the 1 percent,” he said. “He sent us his proposal for the tax code. The committee thought that this is someone who is clearly thinking about this in a critical way, is informed about what is going on the world and has done some dissecting of the information, and that’s the kind of student we’re looking for.”

The college essay is always a bit of a high-wire act. Harry Bauld, the author of “On Writing the College Application Essay,” which I credit with helping me get into college, paints a visceral, frightening picture of haggard admissions officers reading dozens of essays each day. Then, he asks readers to imagine that their application is 38th in the pile. How are you going to excite that person?

Writing about money can offer a bit of voyeuristic thrill in this regard, but it also poses its own particular challenges. “Most of my students are absolutely brilliant,” said Mr. Bauld, a high school English teacher at Horace Mann School in New York City and a former admissions officer at Columbia and Brown. “But they cannot see their own relationship to economic culture. It’s not comprehensible.”

The more affluent ones, if they do understand it, struggle further when trying to put it into words. “When it becomes visible, it comes accompanied with a U-Haul full of guilt that they’re towing behind them,” he said. “Then, it forces them into various clichés.”

But it need not always. Mr. Perez said Pitzer was quick to admit a student who talked about her travels around the world on her father’s yacht, anchoring in various high-end ports. “It bothered her that her family was never willing to leave the comfort zone, to go to real places,” he said. “To me, that young woman was absolutely memorable, and it took a lot of courage for her to do that.”

As we read the essays, which you should send to us by April 1 at Moneyessays@nytimes.com, we’ll be looking for that kind of authenticity. We also seek a unique point of view. Not so much “Why it’s good to give” or “What I learned from my job” but “How I gave in an entirely new way” or “How I made money doing something no one else around me had ever thought to do.”

Perspective on current events certainly helps, if it goes beyond the boilerplate. Were you able to take broad economic themes and make them relevant to you, your family or your community?

Also, do you have awareness of value — of what an education is (or is not) worth and what sort of student loan debt you may be willing to take on to get it? Have you thought through how you measure the success of the services a nonprofit organization delivers — or the ones you deliver in your part-time job for money?

Finally, and most important, what do we learn about you personally? “What’s particular and distinctive about this essay?” said Jeffrey Brenzel, Yale’s dean of undergraduate admissions, in describing what he and his colleagues seek. “An honest reflection on an experience that actually mattered to you, where you do your best to express what you’ve learned from it, is going to serve you best, period, end of story.”

Mr. Bauld, the author and Horace Mann teacher who will be helping us evaluate the submissions, said that this sort of advice was true for current or future application writers, whether you’re writing about money or polar bears. The big idea is to make yourself, through the writing of the essay, into a more interesting person than you were when you began.

“It doesn’t have to be flashy or have a lot of pizazz,” he said. “It just has to be real. You can tell them a mile away, and it’s such a pleasure and revelation when you read one.”
75 2013-01-05 BEIJING — Responding for the first time publicly to the case of a reporter for The New York Times who was forced to leave mainland China, the country’s Foreign Ministry said on Friday that he had not been expelled but that his visa application had simply been filed incorrectly.

Speaking at the Foreign Ministry’s daily news briefing, Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman, said foreign news organizations were to blame for the departure on Monday of Chris Buckley, a 45-year-old Australian who had been a correspondent for Reuters until September, when he rejoined The Times.

Ms. Hua said the ministry had not been properly informed of his changed status.

“So far, we have neither received any notice of resignation (from Reuters), nor has the press card, which was issued by the information department (of the Foreign Ministry), been returned by Chris Buckley,” Ms. Hua said, according to the Xinhua news agency. “So, we do not know who his real boss is now.”

When Mr. Buckley’s visa, which had been issued while he worked for Reuters, ran out on Dec. 31, he and his family were forced to fly to Hong Kong, despite repeated requests from The Times for a new visa to be issued.

Ms. Hua said Mr. Buckley had not been expelled.

“There has been no such thing as a rejection of a visa extension, and there is no such thing as Chris being expelled,” Ms. Hua said, according to The Associated Press.

On a related matter, The Times is also waiting for the visa of its new Beijing bureau chief, Philip P. Pan, to be issued. Mr. Pan first requested a visa last March. The English- and Chinese-language Web sites of The Times have been blocked in China since October, when it published an investigative article about the finances of the family of China’s prime minister, Wen Jiabao.
76 2013-01-06 For more than two years, Philip Horn, a financial adviser at Wells Fargo, systematically executed and canceled trades in clients' portfolios, pocketing the profits, according to court documents....
77 2013-01-06 Mitch McConnell made clear Sunday that he would oppose further increases in tax revenue, saying his attention was on ways to cut spending to deal with the government’s debt....
78 2013-01-06 “That’s one of the primary needs of these temporary memorials,” Mr. Eastwood said. “People need to release some of that grief, and it becomes a safe place instead of turning into a complicated grief.”

The question of how long is too long to let these temporary memorials stand has become all too familiar in sites like Columbine and Virginia Tech, where gunmen have gone on deadly rampages.

Patricia Llodra, Newtown’s first selectwoman, made the painful decision for many herself when she ordered the Public Works Department two weeks after the shooting to remove many of the most elaborate memorials. To be removed were the vast gardens of grief — including rows of decorated Christmas trees topped with silken angels, green and white balloons (the school’s colors), sacrificial candles and deeply personal items like old dolls and sports trophies — that had accumulated outside the firehouse near the school and in the center of Sandy Hook.

Before doing so, Ms. Llodra alerted members of the entire community by phone, warning them of the pending removal. Organic material like flowers and trees, she told them, would be processed into “sacred soil” to use in the foundation of a future memorial. The teddy bears and other nonorganic items would be turned into bricks and other building materials for the tribute.

Ms. Llodra also wrote a letter to the victims’ families inviting them to spend private time at the sites and to take any items they wished for personal keepsakes. On Dec. 28, the police closed the roads around the memorials for two hours as about 50 people from 15 families took her up on the offer.

That night, after most of the town had gone to bed, employees from the Public Works Department collected all the material, placed it in containers and took it to the department’s warehouse. Ms. Llodra has invited everyone to take their memorials to the department for inclusion in the permanent memorial. “There’s no road map for this,” Ms. Llodra said. “So I have to really make the decisions based on what my heart tells me is right and what my head says is possible.”

Some have criticized the move as too soon, as well as the decision to turn the material into soil or bricks. But others have praised it.

Cathy Sullivan, a widow and longtime resident, broke the homeowners’ rules of her retirement community when she put up a white teddy bear, an American flag and green and white balloons on a tree in her front yard. She has yet to take it all down, but said that having a place to take it, and knowing it will be put into a permanent memorial, made the decision easier.

“I couldn’t put it in the trash any more than I could put the flag I received when my husband, who was a veteran, died,” she said. “So I’m going to roll up the balloons and the ribbons and the teddy bear and the flag and take them all down to the town.”

Some of the more elaborate memorials also clogged traffic as reporters, visitors and mourners visited them.

Ms. Llodra said she sought to deal with the memorials in “a firm way, but a fair way and a gentle way.”

“We knew the memorials can’t stand forever,” she said. “And after being weathered... I mean, we had bad rain, we had a storm, we had wind, we had snow. So I knew the time was going to come where we really had to move the memorials. Not only because the tributes themselves start to look unkempt and start to communicate a message that wasn’t part of the honoring that the donor intended; it also signifies a moving on, a readiness for the community to go to that next step.”

On the Friday of the shooting, a family that has lived just blocks from the school for 60 years spray-painted “God Bless the Families” on two slabs of plywood and put them in its yard. The family, who did not want to be identified, had seven siblings, now all grown, who had attended kindergarten at the school. That weekend, they constructed a large green heart out of plywood ringed with Christmas lights and solemnly decked it with 26 crosses, the name of a victim on each. The family has not decided when to take it down, or what to do with it once it does.

“We were just talking about that the other day,” said one of the brothers. “If one of the families came by and asked us to take it down, we’d take it down in a heartbeat, but otherwise it’s just something we’re going to have to think about.”

A pair of professionally printed green and white posters outside the Pizza Palace display the number 26 with a halo overhead and an angel’s wings, underlined by a row of angels holding hands. Dila Dushku Fonda, who owns the restaurant with her brothers and a cousin, had a friend print them. She welcomed Ms. Llodra’s decision to remove the public memorials. But asked when she might take down her own, she said it was still too soon, the anguish still “too raw.”

“Mourning is such a personal thing,” she said, as she started to cry. “You don’t even have to have children to understand the pain, all you have to have is a heart.”
79 2013-01-06 In July, 12 people were killed and 58 wounded in a shooting at an Aurora movie theater during midnight screening of the Batman sequel “The Dark Knight Rises.” The gunman, wearing what the police described as ballistic gear, used an AR-15 assault rifle, a shotgun and a handgun in the shooting, the police said.

James Eagan Holmes, 24, was arrested outside the theater and has been charged in the killings. Prosecutors are scheduled to present their case against Mr. Holmes at a preliminary hearing on Monday that is expected to be attended by many of the survivors and family members of those who died.

Bob Broom, a member of the Aurora City Council, said memories of the movie theater shootings were still fresh but that life in the city had begun to resume its normal rhythms. He said he did not believe the shooting on Saturday shooting would reopen those wounds because it appeared to have been an act of domestic violence.

“When the theater shooting first happened, there was incredible grief,” said Mr. Broom, who said he lives in the subdivision where the shooting on Saturday took place. “But time heals. And it has healed in this situation.”

Barb Helzer, co-owner of the Rock Restaurant and Bar, said she tensed up when she heard news of the shooting on Saturday. “My whole staff, even the young staff, who normally don’t pay attention, we all said, ‘Oh my God, there’s been another shooting,’ ” she said.

Ms. Helzer says she has friends whose Aurora businesses have struggled since the summer. Others will not go to the movies.

“It is all still a recent reality here. We’re still nervous,” Ms. Helzer said. “You find yourself looking at people differently. We’re careful when we ask people to leave the bar. You don’t take things for granted anymore.”

The theater where the shootings took place, the Century 16, is scheduled to reopen on Jan. 17. The theater’s operator, Cinemark, has been criticized for sending out invitations for the reopening to relatives of those who were killed.

Parents, grandparents, cousins and a widow of 9 of the 12 people killed said they were asked to attend an “evening of remembrance” followed by a movie on Jan. 17, according to an open letter to Cinemark published by The Denver Post.

In the letter, many of the relatives said the company had never offered its condolences and had refused to meet with them without the company’s lawyers being present.

“Our family members will never be on this earth with us again, and a movie ticket and some token words from people who didn’t care enough to reach out to us, nor respond when we reached out to them to talk, is appalling,” the letter said.

The families, some of whom have sued Cinemark, described the invitation as a “thinly veiled publicity ploy” and called for a boycott of the theater. Cinemark did not immediately return a message seeking comment on Saturday.
80 2013-01-06 How unusual is this?

“Going back to 1928, there have only been eight other years where the index went an entire year of trading up year-to-date every single day,” Mr. Hickey says. The last time was in 1979.

The odds that the current streak will be sustained through a second calendar year are quite low. Since 1928, it’s happened only once — in 1975 and 1976, a period not remembered as being particularly strong for equities.

Today, many people don’t see the market as worth the bother, either. “Although the current bull market is approaching four years in duration, if you talk to the average investor, many will not even call it a bull market,” Bespoke wrote last week in its annual report on the markets. “In 2012, the S.& P. 500 was up by more than 10 percent, but if you asked most casual observers how the market was doing, they would probably tell you that it was flat, or maybe even down.”

That may help explain why the current streak hasn’t received more attention, Mr. Hickey said in an interview. Cogitating about it may induce cognitive dissonance, because the streak attests to the market’s consistently strong performance while many wise commentators have been stressing the market’s uncertainty and turbulence.

“The numbers don’t lie,’ Mr. Hickey said. “We’ve been having a bull market streak when many people don’t even realize we’re in a bull market.”

The reasons for the market’s persistent buoyancy may not be appealing, Mr. Hickey said. It’s possible that stocks have performed well primarily because of the expansive monetary policy of central banks and because of governments’ heightened intervention in the financial system and the economy.

“But whatever the reasons,” he said, “if you bought stocks in March 2009 at the bottom of the market, you can sell them today at a tremendous premium.”

In fact, a $1,000 investment in an S.& P. 500 index fund made in March 2009 would be worth more than $2,000 today.

Yet many investors are “disconnected from the stock market these days and that’s understandable,” Mr. Hickey said, given the enormous losses suffered in the financial crisis and in the collapse of the Internet bubble less than a decade before that.

The current rally may still have legs precisely because many investors have so far failed to participate in it. They may become reaccustomed to the idea that stocks can be very profitable, he said.

Crunch the numbers for the last year or so and you’ll see that active investors actually “have been risk-on, not risk-off,” he said. Last year, growth stocks generally fared better than the traditionally safe dividend payers, he observed. And stocks of companies that derive a high proportion of their revenue from the domestic market generally outperformed foreign stocks. They also fared better than domestic stocks with high international exposure.

In short, the bull market that started in March 2009 remains very much intact, he said.

You might not know that from financial headlines that have often focused on weakness in the economy and on the myriad crises in Europe, the Middle East and Washington.

In fact, many sentiment indicators suggest that investors remain quite worried, and that the market’s rise last week may have simply been a world-didn’t-end rally, a collective sigh of relief.

On Monday, the last day of 2012, there were rumors of a breakthrough in the impasse in Washington, and the S.& P. 500 rose 1.7 percent, its best year-ending day since 1974.

On Wednesday, the market soared 2 percent on news that the so-called fiscal cliff had been dodged in a last-minute deal. That built a cushion for the rest of the week. Stocks wavered on Thursday and rose on Friday — finishing 2.8 percent above their closing level for 2012.

STILL, the market’s perch is precarious, in the view of many strategists. Will Geisdorf, senior global analyst at Ned Davis Research, for example, said last week that while the bull market was intact, a short-term correction was very likely, if only because the market had risen so rapidly.

“We have a cautious view for the next four or five weeks,” he said, though the medium-term outlook is “decidedly bullish.”

The deal reached in Washington created a new series of seemingly crucial deadlines in March. That’s when the federal government is expected to hit its debt ceiling, when its spending authorization bill will need approval, and when cuts in domestic and military spending will begin if no action is taken. The market turbulence may well be disconcerting.

But for now, the streak lives on. Perhaps it’s time to take a little notice.
81 2013-01-06 THE U.S. military trains its fighter pilots on a principle called the “OODA Loop.” It stands for observe, orient, decide, act. The idea is that if your OODA Loop is faster and more accurate than the other pilot’s, you’ll shoot his plane out of the sky. If the other pilot’s OODA Loop is better, he’ll shoot you down. Right now, our national OODA Loop is broken. We’re are doing something crazy — taking the country back and forth to the financial brink to produce suboptimal, midnight compromises without any overall plan for how this will lead to growth in the world in which we’re living. We’re doing the worst thing a country can do — cutting and spending without a plan. Maybe you can grow without a plan. But if you want to ensure that every scarce dollar gets the biggest bang, you can’t cut without a plan. It’s deciding and acting without observing and orienting. It’s how fighter pilots get shot down.

, by his own admission, focused his campaign almost exclusively on the need to raise taxes on the wealthy, and the Republicans focused theirs on lowering them. But neither one offered the country what we need most: a description of what world we’re living in, what is new, and how we maximize our ability to compete and grow in this world — and then offering up a comprehensive, detailed plan of appropriate phased-in spending cuts, tax reforms and investments in research, infrastructure and early childhood education to create more good jobs and the workers to fill them.

What world are we living in? It’s a world in which we face three major challenges: responding to the merger of globalization and the information technology revolution, which is changing every job and workplace; dealing with our mounting debt and entitlement burdens, driven by steadily rising health care costs and unsustainable defined benefits; and, finally, developing energy sources that can grow the world economy without tipping it into disruptive climate change. (At one point last week, the Senate approved a $60.4 billion aid package to help New York and recover from . If fully implemented, that would mean we’d spend on one storm all the new tax revenue for next year that the House and Senate just agreed to in the fiscal-cliff negotiations.)

What each party should be saying is, “Given this world, here are the specific tax reforms, spending cuts, investments and policy innovations we need to grow our middle class, sustain our retirees and shrink inequality.” Instead, we have no leaders ready to trust the public with the truth, so both parties are shooting themselves in the foot and our future in the head. As Matt Miller, author of “The Tyranny of Dead Ideas” noted in The , “Republicans haven’t identified anything remotely equal to the savings we need. And because many liberals haven’t thought through the long-term budget implications, or wrongly assume that taxes can rise indefinitely or that the Pentagon can be shrunk to something less than a triangle, they resist sensible steps to slow the growth of and , not realizing that this course will assure before long that there isn’t any new money to spend on, say, poor children.”

I expect nothing from the It’s lost and leaderless. I expect a lot from Obama, who knows what needs to be done and has said so in the past. I expect him to stop acting as a party leader and start acting like the president of the whole country. When I heard Obama say, after the election, that this time he was going to take his plan to the country, and not make the mistake again of just negotiating with Congress, I thought, “Great, I can’t wait to hear what he says.” But all he took to the country was a plan for increasing taxes on “millionaires and billionaires.” There was nothing comprehensive, nothing bold, no great journey for America and no risks for him. Really disappointing.

Maybe Obama has a strategy: First raise taxes on the wealthy, which gives him the credibility with his base to then make big spending cuts in the next round of negotiations. Could be. But raising taxes on the wealthy is easy. Now we’re at the hard part: comprehensive tax reform, entitlement cuts, radical cost-saving approaches to health care and new investments in our growth engines. This will require taking things away from people — to both save and invest. A lot of lobbies will fight it. The president will need to rally the center of the country and the business community to overcome them. He’ll have to change the polls, not just read the polls. He will have to take on his own base and the G.O.P.’s.
82 2013-01-06 ERBIL, Iraq (Reuters) — The most senior member of Saddam Hussein’s entourage who has not been captured has encouraged antigovernment Sunni Muslim protesters to stand their ground until Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki is forced out.

The former official, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, is the leader of the Baath Party, which was banned after the United States-led invasion in 2003 that overthrew Mr. Hussein, a Sunni, and gave the majority Shiite Muslims a prominent role in the new government.

Over the past two weeks, tens of thousands of Sunnis, some waving Hussein-era flags, have staged demonstrations in a show of anger against Mr. Maliki, a Shiite whom they have accused of monopolizing power and marginalizing Sunnis.

“The people of Iraq and all its nationalist and Islamic forces support you until the realization of your just demands for the fall of the Safavid-Persian alliance,” said Mr. Douri, addressing the protesters in video broadcast on Al Arabiya television.

Safavid is a reference to the dynasty that ruled Shiite Iran, which was once known as Persia, from the 16th to 18th centuries and that at times controlled parts of modern-day Iraq.

Since Mr. Maliki came to office in 2006, Iraq has edged closer to Iran, which wields strong influence over several Iraqi Shiite parties.
83 2013-01-06 The two traveled together on a training trip to Mauritius in the off-season but did not really hit against each other at the time.

“But this was true, what I said,” the 36th-ranked Pavlyuchenkova, who has won three WTA titles and more than $2.8 million in prize money, later said of her postmatch assessment. “When she’s on fire, well, I feel like there is not much I can do. I mean, she’s a great player and she deserves to win.”

Williams said she had been concentrating on being calm and composed, and has started to feel serene when she is in her zone on court. She has been feeling that way a lot in her comeback since a first-round loss at the French Open, her earliest exit from a Grand Slam tournament.

“I was looking at a lot of old matches on YouTube, and I feel like right now I’m playing some of my best tennis,” Williams, a 15-time major winner, said. “I feel like I want to do better and play better still.”

In a tournament featuring eight of the world’s top 10 female players, not one match in Brisbane featured two seeded players because of a series of injuries and upsets. Second-ranked Maria Sharapova withdrew because of an injured collarbone, and Pavlyuchenkova ousted a pair of top-10 players: the 2011 Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova in the second round and fourth-seeded Angelique Kerber in the quarterfinals.

Williams missed a chance to extend her 11-1 record against top-ranked Victoria Azarenka, who withdrew a half-hour before their scheduled semifinal Friday because of an infected toe.

Williams, 31, can regain the No. 1 ranking if she wins the Australian Open

In the men’s draw, Andy Murray advanced to the final when fifth-seeded Kei Nishikori retired with an injured left knee while trailing, 6-4, 2-0, in their semifinal.

Murray, the Olympic and United States Open champion, will next meet 21-year-old Grigor Dimitrov, who is starting to live up to his billing as a star in the making by reaching his first ATP Tour final with a 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (5) victory over Marcos Baghdatis.

SPAIN TAKES HOPMAN CUP In Perth, Australia, Spain defeated Serbia, 2-1, to win the Hopman Cup for the fourth time.

Fernando Verdasco and Anabel Medina Garrigues won the deciding mixed doubles, 6-4, 7-5, against Novak Djokovic and Ana Ivanovic.

Djokovic took the first match for Serbia by overcoming a strong challenge from Verdasco, 6-3, 7-5. Medina Garrigues evened it by outlasting Ivanovic, 6-4, 6-7 (3), 6-2.

CHENNAI FINAL IS SET Second-seeded Janko Tipsarevic rallied past Aljaz Bedene, 4-6, 6-2 6-2, and will play Roberto Bautista-Agut for the Chennai Open title in India.

The 80th-ranked Bautista-Agut followed his stunning win over top-seeded and sixth-ranked Tomas Berdych with a victory over fifth-seeded Benoit Paire, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4.

LI WINS TITLE IN CHINA Top-seeded Li Na secured a hard-fought 6-3, 1-6, 7-5 victory over Klara Zakopalova to capture the inaugural Shenzhen Open in China.
84 2013-01-06 With the opening of Mighty Quinn’s Barbeque in the East Village in December, barely a month after BrisketTown opened in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the artisanal smoked meat wars are officially on. Both enterprises started ad hoc — Quinn’s as the stand with the longest line at the outdoor Smorgasburg bazaar, BrisketTown as a series of one-off events — and both promise long, slow cooking by mostly traditional methods. At Quinn’s, on Second Avenue at Sixth Street, the back wall and tables are made from century-old wood salvaged from the Puck Building in SoHo.

The restaurant offers counter service only, no main courses above $8.50 and 16 beers to wash them down. The plates are paper. On Wednesday night, the music was heavy on the Clash, the Talking Heads and the Cure — comfort punk, the smoked meat of East Village soundtracks. Families and couples ate beside college-age friends, some at a long communal table.

IN THE SEATS People whose New Year’s resolution was to eat more fatty meat and sweet potato casserole with maple and pecans. “O.K., I’ll go for that,” said Mitch Corber, 63, a poet and maker of poetry videos specializing in the Beats and their heirs. Mr. Corber and Minnie Berman, 54, a supervisor at a psychiatric day treatment program in the Bronx, had eaten at the restaurant on New Year’s Eve and were already back for more. They met through an online dating site two years ago. “We’re supposedly going together,” Mr. Corber said. “It’s a good work in progress, right?” Ms. Berman said. Mr. Corber agreed. They were joined by Ms. Berman’s friend Kathy Corey, 47, a paralegal for an insurance company. The women had catching up to do.

WHY THEY CAME Does smoked meat need a reason? “We hadn’t seen each other for two weeks,” Ms. Corey said. Ms. Berman suggested the restaurant and asked if Mr. Corber could join them. “It was really cool on New Year’s Eve,” Ms. Berman said. “It was like a communal event.” Mr. Corber added: “The staff was really happy; they got to taste all the food. And it’s kind of new wave, mixing two types of barbecue techniques into one.” (The chef, Hugh Mangum, calls his style Texalina, for its lineages, one dry, the other infused with vinegar and mustard.)

ON THE PLATES Lotus-root salads and quinoa, right? So close! Ms. Corey had the pulled-pork sandwich ($7.25) and a side of baked beans with burnt brisket ends ($3). Ms. Berman had spare ribs ($8), burnt end baked beans and a side of that sweet potato casserole with maple and pecans ($3), which all pronounced the meal’s best dish. Mr. Corber had a brisket sandwich ($8.50) and the sweet potatoes.

WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT A lot of family stories, naturally. “Getting through the holidays,” Ms. Corey said. Ms. Berman talked about her mother, 95, in Israel, who is unwell and keeps firing her home attendants. “It’s a very tough time because we’re so far away,” she said. “We can’t keep going back and forth. She chose to live there, and we live here, so it’s hard. It’s tough for her to accept what’s happening to her.” Ms. Corey told of spending New Year’s Eve with her twin sister at a restaurant on Long Island, dancing until after midnight.

“All the waitresses love her brother-in-law,” Ms. Berman said. “He’s probably a big tipper. He’s treated like royalty.”
85 2013-01-06 I worked for IIT Research Institute, the company that invented the Pop-Tart (which is the subject of a joke described by Jerry Seinfeld in your magazine). In the ’60s, the company was tasked with creating a rival to the frozen waffle. It was a point of pride for this little eggheaded company that worked on radio gear and train switches. Years later, when meetings ran long and people grew tired, someone would say “Pop-Tart” under their breath and everyone would laugh and instantly decompress. Nothing we were going to create was going to generate a billion dollars in revenue with something so worthless. We lived in the shadows of giants. SAGRILARUSI, Annapolis, Md., posted on nytimes.com

In the ’80s, Jerry Seinfeld did television commercials for our client, a sandwich chain called Suburpia. Jerry arrived the night before the shoot, took our scripts and a yellow legal pad and retired to his room. By the next morning, he and his comic buddy Joel Hodgson had tweaked or rewritten every script. They were infinitely better. The commercials went on to win awards. Incidentally, the evening of the shoot Jerry found an opening at a local comedy club, where he killed. The man lived to work. Nothing’s changed. STEVE EICHENBAUM, Eichenbaum/Associates Inc., Milwaukee

Jerry is safe, solid and smooth. He has no edge. His humor and style does not challenge the listener. Rather, he lulls his audience to a laugh — perfect for prime-time sitcom television and his safe stand-up. Don Rickles, George Carlin, Jack Benny, George Burns and Groucho Marx never retired. ELLEN GARIN, New York, posted on nytimes.com

IS THE CURE FOR CANCER INSIDE YOU?

I was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in early 2010 at age 42. I had no risk factors. I received conventional treatment: chemo, radiation and surgery. And I’m alive and disease-free almost three years after my diagnosis. Part of the problem with pancreatic cancer is the defeatist attitudes of many oncologists. Instead of suggesting your readers grasp at therapies that are extremely unlikely to provide any benefit, you should emphasize the importance of being treated at a major cancer center. STACY JORGENSEN, Honolulu, posted on nytimes.com

Like Ralph Steinman, I was shocked when I was diagnosed earlier this year with pancreatic cancer and realized there was a dearth of quality treatment options. I ended up having the barbaric surgery described in the article (it’s called the Whipple procedure) and then six months of chemotherapy. While I show no sign of disease 11 months after being diagnosed, the odds are that it will come back — likely before these immunological treatments become widely available. But I remain hopeful that the work done by Steinman and others may develop something that will help people affected by this disease in years to come. THOM MROZEK, Pasadena, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

For a clearheaded explanation of why massive spending cuts would likely injure the United States, not fix it, look no further than Adam Davidson’s piece on Adam Posen, who, until very recently, was a key British central bank economist (and the only American to serve in that capacity). Posen would regularly speak out against the United Kingdom’s massive austerity program. . . . Davidson minces no words about whether Posen’s Keynesian-driven theorems can find a place in America: “Doing neither stimulus nor austerity — which is basically what’s happening in the United States — isn’t working, either. So, [Posen] says, let’s try stimulus, even if we don’t know for sure it’ll do the job.” What Posen offers is a different prescription for achieving better health. One that won’t sting as much. ABRAM BROWN, on forbes.com
86 2013-01-07 A lawsuit claims that the rescue by the government deprived A.I.G.’s shareholders of tens of billions of dollars and took private property for public use without appropriate compensation....
87 2013-01-07 With 7.9 million viewers, the third season premiere on Sunday night "quadrupled the average PBS prime time rating," PBS and a member station, WGBH, said on Monday....
88 2013-01-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
89 2013-01-07 The government is weighing whether to require hedge funds to report any suspicious transactions, like insider information or manipulation of stock prices, a move hedge funds are likely to resist....
90 2013-01-07 The executive and legislative branches of the government have responded to the financial crisis, but the courts have played a low-key role thus far, the author writes....
91 2013-01-07 The search for the missing aircraft carrying Vittorio Missoni continued off the coast of Venezuela for a fourth day on Monday....
92 2013-01-07 "Le Jardin," valued at $1 million, will go back to the Museum of Modern Art in Stockholm....
93 2013-01-07 Ms. Midler will star in the one-character play "I'll Eat You Last: A Chat With Sue Mengers," about the powerful Hollywood agent whose clients included Barbra Streisand, Steve McQueen, Faye Dunaway and Michael Caine....
94 2013-01-07 TerraCycle's sales have grown every year for the past nine years, but the company earned its first profit in 2011....
95 2013-01-07 Sony and BMG, onetime partners, are said to be teaming up again on a bid to buy - and then divide between themselves - some of the EMI recorded music assets being sold by the Universal Music Group....
96 2013-01-07 All the public tickets to President Obama's official inaugural ball and parade were snapped up Sunday - a day before they were scheduled to go on sale - after Ticketmaster inadvertently sent out e-mails announcing they were available, inaugural of...
97 2013-01-07 An N.H.L. memo sent out to clubs late Sunday advised teams that it is going to take longer than initially thought for owners and players to vote on the proposed collective bargaining agreement....
98 2013-01-07 “We've got to understand great-power limitations. There are so many uncontrollable variables at play in Syria and the Middle East. You work through the multilateral institutions that are available, the U.N., the Arab League. The last thing you want is an American-led or Western-led invasion into Syria.”  Interview with Foreign Policy, May 2012

“The United States will remain committed to defending Israel. Our relationship with Israel is a special and historic one. But it need not and cannot be at the expense of our Arab and Muslim relationships. That is an irresponsible and dangerous false choice.”  Senate floor, July 31, 2006, in reference to Israel-Hezbollah war in Lebanon

“The two options – attack Iran or live with a nuclear-armed Iran – may be eventually where we are. But I believe most people in both Israel and the United States think there's a ways to go before we get to those.”  Interview with Foreign Policy, May 2012

“We’ve got to get out of those wars. Let the people decide what they want. If they don’t want what we wanted for them, or if they certainly don’t want what we wanted for them as much as we want it, then we can’t control that.”  Interview with The Financial Times, Aug. 29, 2011

“Cyber is a huge issue, that cyberwarfare dimension which we are just now just getting our arms around, as other nations are. If you concentrate on that arena of warfare, you can completely paralyze a nation. You can paralyze power grids; you can paralyze financial services; you can stop a country; you can paralyze computers on ships. I think the greater threat to all of us is going to be directly a dagger at the heart of economic interests, and certainly I would start with cyber. All the other threats are still going to be there — nuclear proliferation, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and all the things we're dealing with today. But, in the end, we can deal with those; we can manage those; we can work our way through those. The big issues are things like cyber, that's where we've really got to pay attention. It's not like sending one army against another. You're not going to win that by having a bigger navy that the other guy's navy. You need big navies, you need strong security, but you need so much more now today to protect our economic interests, which are our vital security interests."  PBS Interview, "Great Decisions in Foreign Policy," May 2012

'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' and Gay Rights Mr. Hagel faced criticism for remarks he made as a senator that an openly gay man nominated for a diplomatic post should not represent the United States, but he recently issued an apology: “My comments 14 years ago in 1998 were insensitive. They do not reflect my views or the totality of my public record, and I apologize to Ambassador Hormel and any L.G.B.T. Americans who may question my commitment to their civil rights. I am fully supportive of ‘open service’ and committed to L.G.B.T. military families.”  Hagel Apologizes About Remarks Against Gay Diplomat, Dec. 21, 2012

“Well, no American wants to in any way hurt our capabilities to national defense, but that doesn’t mean an unlimited amount of money, and a blank check for anything they want at any time, for any purpose. Not at all. Not at all, and so the realities are that the mess we’re in this country, with our debt and our deficits, and our infrastructure and jobless and all the rest, is going to require everybody to take a look, even the Defense Department, and make a pretty hard re-evaluation and review. ... The Defense Department, I think in many ways has been bloated. Let’s look at the reality here. The Defense Department has gotten everything it’s wanted the last 10 years and more. We’ve taken priorities, we’ve taken dollars, we’ve taken programs, we’ve taken policies out of the State Department, out of a number of other departments and put them over in Defense.”  Interview with The Financial Times, Aug. 29, 2011
99 2013-01-07 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
100 2013-01-07 The most annoying phrases of 2012, small-business predictions for 2013, start-ups to watch - and you won't believe how many people applied to work at Comcast last year....
101 2013-01-07 An early draft of a study with recommendations on how New York should adapt in the long term to cope with worsening storms amid climate change and population growth....
102 2013-01-07 Did you buy a balloon? What attractions did you ride and when? Did you shake Goofy’s hand, but snub Snow White? If you fully use MyMagic+, databases will be watching, allowing Disney to refine its offerings and customize its marketing messages.

Disney is aware of potential privacy concerns, especially regarding children. The plan, which comes as the federal government is trying to strengthen online privacy protections, could be troublesome for a company that some consumers worry is already too controlling.

But Disney has decided that MyMagic+ is essential. The company must aggressively weave new technology into its parks — without damaging the sense of nostalgia on which the experience depends — or risk becoming irrelevant to future generations, Mr. Staggs said. From a business perspective, he added, MyMagic+ could be “transformational.”

Aside from benefiting Disney’s bottom line, the initiative could alter the global theme parks business. Disney is not the first vacation company to use wristbands equipped with radio frequency identification, or RFID, chips. Great Wolf Resorts, an operator of 11 water parks in , has been using them since 2006. But Disney’s global parks operation, which has an estimated 121.4 million admissions a year and generates $12.9 billion in revenue, is so huge that it can greatly influence consumer behavior.

“When Disney makes a move, it moves the culture,” said Steve Brown, chief operating officer for Lo-Q, a British company that provides line management and ticketing systems for theme parks and zoos.

Disney World guests currently plod through entrance turnstiles, redeeming paper tickets, and then decide what to ride; food and merchandise are bought with cash or credit cards. (Disney hotel key cards can also be used to charge items.) People race to FastPass kiosks, which dispense a limited number of free line-skipping tickets. But gridlock quickly sets in and most people wait. And wait.

In contrast, MyMagic+ will allow users of a new Web site and app — called My Disney Experience — to preselect three FastPasses before they leave home for rides or V.I.P. seating for parades, fireworks and character meet-and-greets. Orlando-bound guests can also preregister for RFID bracelets. These so-called MagicBands will function as room key, park ticket, FastPass and credit card.

MagicBands can also be encoded with all sorts of personal details, allowing for more personalized interaction with Disney employees. Before, the employee playing Cinderella could say hello only in a general way. Now — if parents opt in — hidden sensors will read MagicBand data, providing information needed for a personalized greeting: “Hi, Angie,” the character might say without prompting. “I understand it’s your birthday.”

The data will also be used to make waiting areas for rides (“scene ones” in Disney parlance) less of a drag. A new Magic Kingdom ride called Under the Sea, for instance, features a robotic version of Scuttle the sea gull from that will be able to chitchat with MagicBand wearers.

“We want to take experiences that are more passive and make them as interactive as possible — moving from, ‘Cool, look at that talking ,’ to ‘Wow, amazing, that bird is talking directly to me,’ ” said Bruce Vaughn, chief creative executive for Walt Disney Imagineering.

Guests will not be forced to use the MagicBand system, and people who do try it will decide how much information to share. An online options menu, for instance, will offer various controls: Do you want park employees to know your name? Do you want Disney to send you special offers when you get home? What about during your stay?

“I may walk in and feel good about giving information about myself and my wife, but maybe we don’t want to give much about the children,” Mr. Staggs said. Still, once using the MagicBand, even if selecting the most restrictive settings, Disney sensors will gather general information about how the visitor uses the park.

Rumors about MyMagic+ have been circulating on Disney fan blogs for months and offer a window into the likely debate over the service.

“Although I know this type of technology is making its way into every facet of life, it still makes me feel a bit creeped out,” wrote Jayne Townsley on .

Pam Falcioni, another StitchKingdom user, had the opposite response. “I think it sounds awesome,” she wrote, adding, “As far as ‘Big Brother’ watching over us as we wander the parks, anyone worried about ‘real’ privacy wouldn’t be wandering around a theme park full of security cameras.”

The logistical challenges involved in pulling this off are extensive. Disney has 60,000 employees here and many must be retrained to use new technology. Already, Disney has installed free Wi-Fi at Disney World, a 40-square-mile area, so smartphone users can access the My Disney Experience app more readily. And all of the new procedures must be communicated to -size crowds daily.

What happens if your MagicBand is lost or stolen? Park employees will be trained to deactivate them or guests can use the My Disney Experience app, a Disney spokeswoman said. As a safety precaution, Disney will also require guests to enter a PIN when using the wristbands to make purchases of $50 or more. “The bands themselves will contain no personal identifiable information,” Mr. Staggs said.

Mr. Staggs said Disney’s board decided to move ahead with the technology upgrades in February 2011 only after identifying multiple ways in which the initiative could expand profits. “If Disney can drive more value from existing infrastructure by layering on technology, that is extremely powerful,” said Mr. Brown of Lo-Q. “They can’t just compete by building new rides; it’s already a theme-park arms race out there.”

Disney expects MagicBands to turn into a big business in and of themselves; the company plans to introduce collectible sets of MagicBand accessories and charms.

Prodding guests to do more advance planning, combined with the tracking of guests as they roam the parks, will help Disney manage its work force more efficiently. More advance planning will also help lock visitors into Disney once they arrive in Orlando, discouraging people, for instance, from making impromptu visits to Universal’s Wizarding World of .

Some cosmetic changes to the parks are included in the initiative’s cost. For instance, eventually guests will no longer enter the parks through turnstiles. Instead, they will tap their MagicBand on a post. Mr. Staggs explained that research indicated that guests — particularly mothers with strollers — viewed the turnstiles as an unpleasant barrier. “Small, subtle things can make a big difference,” Mr. Staggs said.
103 2013-01-07 “It typically takes a lot of money and time to develop a new handset model, but MediaTek comes in and provides a total solution,” Mr. Liao said.

The company has proved wildly popular among Chinese phone makers. Besides supplying Huawei, Lenovo and ZTE, MediaTek also supports lesser-known manufacturers, including those that make so-called bandit phones that imitate premium models from Apple, Samsung and HTC.

TCL Communication Technology Holdings, a Chinese phone maker that sells phones primarily in Europe and Latin America, uses MediaTek’s chips. Its chief operating officer, Wang Jiyang, said that when his company works with MediaTek, its only major design tasks are to make the software more user-friendly and to tailor the look and feel of the phone.

“In general, with MediaTek’s help, we’re able to achieve almost twice as fast time to market, compared to other solutions,” Mr. Wang said.

MediaTek was founded in 1997. It started out making chips for home entertainment electronics like DVD players and televisions before moving into components for CD and DVD-ROM devices. In 2004, it began making chips for small mobile phones.

MediaTek estimates that it will lead the Chinese market by selling 110 million smartphone chips in 2012, up from 10 million chips a year ago.

By comparison, Qualcomm, the global leader in smartphone chips, is expected to finish 2012 in second place in China with 82 million chips shipped, according to the research firm DigiTimes.

MediaTek has been powered by consumers like Zhang Ying, 31, who want to try the latest technology but not pay a premium for it. Mr. Zhang, a Shanghai resident, bought a knockoff HTC phone last year. “Every person has a price point,” he said. “At a time when some of my friends were buying Samsung or iPhone, I wanted to show that I can keep up with them. A lot of domestic phones are cheap and of fairly good quality.”

People who think like Mr. Zhang are dominating sales, especially among first-time smartphone buyers. In a September report, McKinsey, the global consulting firm, estimated that 69 percent of all smartphones sold in China would cost less than 1,500 renminbi, or about $240, by the second half of 2013.

And MediaTek is taking its business model to other emerging markets. The company’s products support features that are popular in developing countries, like noise-reducing speakers and slots for two SIM cards.

In India, local brands like Spice and Micromax are rolling out lower-priced smartphone models using MediaTek parts. In Brazil, phones by Motorola Mobility, as well as local brands like Gradiente and Multilaser, will also have MediaTek chips.

“The markets we target have 5.8 billion people, whereas the U.S. and Europe have less than one billion,” said Mr. Ku of MediaTek. “I need to aim at a global market, not just developed countries.”

MediaTek also released a chip last year for building basic smartphones that work in regions without mobile data networks. Users of these phones rely on Wi-Fi connections to download multimedia. These phones can cost as little as $50, or 312 renminbi.

Those chips now account for 40 percent of MediaTek’s smartphone chip sales, according to the company.

Mark Hung, an analyst at the research firm Gartner, calls the network-less chip one of the “fastest-growing smartphone segments,” as many consumers are looking to switch from their simple mobile phones to basic, low-cost smartphones.

“This is a fairly new phenomenon, and as you can expect, mostly in emerging markets, including China,” Mr. Hung said.

For now, Apple has signaled that it has no intention of competing on price. The iPhone 5, released in China on Dec. 14, cost 300 renminbi more than the two previous models, the iPhone 4S and 4, on their release days. More than two million units of the iPhone 5 were sold during its first weekend.

By contrast, Coolpad, Huawei, Lenovo, Samsung and ZTE have rolled out new phones with similar performance at a third of the iPhone 5’s price of 5,288 renminbi, and sometimes less.

“We believe that emerging countries should also be able to enjoy the use of information technology with the same computing power,” said Tsai Ming-kai, chief executive of MediaTek.

As the world’s largest market for smartphones, China is quickly becoming a bellwether for the progress of sales wars globally. The Chinese experience may show that any leading market position can be fickle, and new brands can appear seemingly out of nowhere to capture significant market shares.

Apple remains No. 2 in smartphone shipments worldwide after Samsung, but its position could be threatened as the competition expands to more consumers and more price points.

“Emerging economies are getting stronger,” Mr. Tsai said. “The industry dynamic is always evolving. Anything can happen.”
104 2013-01-07 His remarks stood in contrast to comments from the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, who said on the CNN program “State of the Union” that there was plenty of room to increase revenue by examining “deductions, credits, special treatments under the tax code.”

Mr. McConnell’s position also contrasted with remarks on Saturday by Mr. Obama, who said in his weekly address that he remained open to both spending cuts and further tax increases. The fiscal agreement last week made tax cuts permanent for most households and put off big spending cuts.

Mr. Obama, who was speaking from Hawaii before returning to Washington on Sunday, emphasized his own line in the sand. Now that the government has reached its statutory borrowing limit, Mr. Obama said, Congress had no choice but to raise it to avoid a damaging default. He said the matter was not up for negotiation.

“If Congress refuses to give the United States the ability to pay its bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy could be catastrophic,” Mr. Obama said. “Our families and our businesses cannot afford that dangerous game again.”

Mr. McConnell repeatedly sidestepped questions about whether he supported Republican senators who have suggested that a default — and even a brief shutdown of the government — might be necessary to secure deep spending cuts.

“My answer is hopefully we don’t need to get to that point,” he said on ABC. “The president surely must know we’re spending way too much. So why don’t we do something about reducing spending?”

Mr. McConnell also suggested that other Obama administration priorities, including a new push for gun restrictions after the Connecticut school shooting, might have to wait.

Mr. McConnell was asked about reports that Mr. Biden, whom Mr. Obama charged with developing proposals to address gun violence, had confidently predicted the passage of gun-control legislation this month.

Mr. McConnell seemed to cast cold water on that notion.

“The biggest problem we have at the moment is spending and debt,” he said. “That’s going to dominate the Congress between now and the end of March. None of these issues, I think, will have the kind of priority that spending and debt will have.”
105 2013-01-07 Twenty-three states, most led by Republican officials, have declared that they will not set up their own health insurance exchanges to help individuals and small businesses find affordable coverage. Instead, they want to offload that task to the federal government.

In the short run it will not matter much who runs the exchanges. Consumers will be able to buy essentially the same policies and receive the same consumer protections either way. But in the long run, it would be best if states took on the job because they have the knowledge needed to mesh state and federal programs and encourage participation by local insurers and health care providers.

Under the Affordable Care Act, health insurance exchanges will serve as online marketplaces that will allow people to choose among insurance plans whose costs and benefits are easy to compare. The federal government will provide tax-credit subsidies to help pay premiums for people with incomes just above the levels allowed by Medicaid programs. The exchanges are supposed to be ready to enroll people by Oct. 1 for coverage that will start on Jan. 1, 2014.

Federal health officials announced last Thursday that 17 states and the District of Columbia are moving to set up their own exchanges. Seven other states have said they want to collaborate with the federal government to set up exchanges (states have until Feb. 15 to sign up for such partnership arrangements). A federal exchange will be available for all states that refuse to take any action.

The Affordable Care Act gives the Department of Health and Human Services responsibility for determining what “essential health benefits” must be provided by insurers and for designing Web sites for comparing plans, among other duties. The act also provides basic consumer protections, like the right to buy insurance without regard to health status, that apply both on and off the exchanges. Residents of states where political leaders seem bent on frustrating or sabotaging the health care reforms might well be better off with a federally run exchange.
106 2013-01-07 RAMALLAH, West Bank (AP) — The Palestinian government is in “extreme jeopardy” because of a financial crisis largely caused by Arab countries’ failure to send hundreds of millions of dollars in promised aid, the Palestinian prime minister said Sunday.

The crisis has worsened in recent years, and the government, the Palestinian Authority, has reached the point of not being able to pay the salaries of about 150,000 government employees, said the prime minister, Salam Fayyad. If the crisis continues, he said, the number of Palestinians in poverty is bound to double to 50 percent of the population of roughly four million people.

The Palestinian Authority, set up two decades ago as part of interim peace deals with Israel, is on the “verge of being completely incapacitated,” Mr. Fayyad warned.

The government was meant to be temporary and to be replaced by a Palestinian state, which was to be established through negotiations with Israel. But those talks have repeatedly broken down, and for the past four years the two sides have been unable to agree on the terms for renewing them.

In November, the authority’s president, Mahmoud Abbas, won United Nations recognition of Palestine in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem as a nonmember observer state, overriding Israeli objections to the largely symbolic step. On Sunday, Mr. Abbas asked his government, which is based in the West Bank, to prepare for replacing the words “Palestinian Authority” with “State of Palestine” in all public documents, including identification cards, drivers licenses and passports.

A statement from Mr. Abbas’s office said the move was aimed at enhancing Palestinian “sovereignty on the ground” and was a step toward “real independence.”
107 2013-01-07 Bike rides, ice cream, first kisses, illicit beers and trips to the arcade: these were the moments that made up a lifetime for the Long Beach Boardwalk and its faithful visitors. They were all recalled on Saturday, as hundreds of people crowded into a beach parking lot and waved from nearby balconies for a ceremony marking the 76-year-old structure’s end.

Among first kisses, engagements and deaths, the Boardwalk was a fixture of quieter rituals. Many said they would miss their long walks in the morning, or after work to unwind, across stretches where they were sure to know almost everyone around.

Thirty days from now, it will all be gone. City officials hope to build the new Boardwalk by the summer, said Scott J. Mandel, the vice president of the Long Beach City Council, but he cautioned residents against getting their hopes up for any specific date.

The town is also considering building sea barriers against the next storm surge, a form of protection Long Beach rejected six years ago amid complaints that dunes would block ocean views and interfere with tourism.

“Sandy was a wake-up call for us,” Mr. Mandel said, standing in front of a sign that read, “Coming soon: A new & better Long Beach.”

Long Beach’s boardwalk has been destroyed at least once since first being finished in 1914; the more than two-mile long current incarnation, which began to be rebuilt in 1936, survived many storms — until Hurricane Sandy.

“Let’s view today as a milestone,” Mr. Mandel told the teary, clapping crowd. “We’re starting a new chapter in Long Beach’s history.”

Standing in front of a band shell that normally plays host to the Boardwalk’s annual summer concerts, council members and other local elected officials told their own stories of the place and promised a new, safer, bigger and better Boardwalk.

“It won’t be the same,” said City Councilman John C. McLaughlin, who recalled growing up in Long Beach and stealing his first kiss underneath the wooden slats. “Hopefully we’ll be able to make a new Boardwalk that will satisfy the next generation.”

Denise Ford, the local Nassau County legislator, who moved here in 1980, calls herself a virtual newcomer in a town where families tend to stay for generations. But she has been here long enough to see her daughter become engaged in front of the memorial bench for her husband, one of many lining the Boardwalk.

The benches are “like Long Beach people’s second tombstone,” as a resident in the crowd, Kathy Boyle, put it. They will be stored, to be put out again when the new Boardwalk is built.

There were as many different ways of saying goodbye to the Boardwalk, it seemed, as there had been of enjoying it. Some clambered up to it on a wooden plank, circumventing a roped-off ramp, and snapped photos against the railings. Others sat quietly on the memorial benches, staring out at sand and sky. Still others celebrated their boardwalk the way they had always done, with a leisurely walk or a bike ride over the graying planks.

And nearly everybody wanted a piece of it to take home. People stood around, clutching brick-size bits of wood the city was handing out or longer, sawed-off sections. A few lugged home more personal totems. They included Jacob Miller, 11, who trotted away from the beach with a metal pole at least as tall as he was balanced over his shoulders.

For a few, no souvenir would be enough. Toby Kobak, 60, who still has not been able to return to her flooded home, wept into her husband’s shoulder as she refused the offer of a wooden memento. “I can’t,” she said.

“I love this town, and it’s so sad,” she said. She smiled a moment. “But we’ll be back.”
108 2013-01-07 David H. Newman’s thoughtful essay points to a much larger issue: firearm violence is a public health problem of major proportions.

The Newtown, Conn., tragedy and the one in Webster, N.Y., where two firefighters were fatally shot, cannot be ignored. Neither can the 31,000 Americans who die each year at gunpoint, a number that exceeds the number of babies who die each year in the first year of life or the number of people who die from AIDS or illicit drugs.

We must view gun violence as a serious threat to public health if we want to reduce the number of deaths associated with guns.

Ending the sale of assault rifles, high-capacity magazines and other facilitators of mass murder is a good start. We must also allow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention greater capacity to study the incidence and effect of gun violence and to develop steps for preventing firearm death and injury through public education.

The evidence is clear, and we must take action now to protect our neighbors and ourselves from this devastating public health crisis.

The writers, medical doctors, are president and president emeritus, respectively, of the New York Academy of Medicine.
109 2013-01-07 It is ironic that an editorial page that once proclaimed that the American International Group “must be restructured for taxpayers to have a shot at recouping some of the bailout billions” (Aug. 12, 2009) and doubted that the company could repay its rescue would now say it is “not important” whether the government profited from it.

It is beyond ironic that the same page would contort settled tax law to assert that special tax treatment was part of the company’s rescue and disregard the Federal Reserve’s arrival as A.I.G.’s primary global regulator.

We can debate the wisdom of providing A.I.G. $182 billion in support. What is not debatable is that the people of A.I.G. persevered and have repaid that assistance plus a profit: a total of $205 billion back to the American people. A.I.G. reduced $2.65 trillion notional value of derivatives by 91.5 percent, divested assets worth more than $68 billion, made itself far less complex and markedly improved its risk profile. And we have exercised the same right available to every American company to use deferred tax assets.

It is a result of our employees’ determination to repay America that A.I.G. not only supports our customers and employees but also contributes directly to the financial stability of the United States. Thank you, America.
110 2013-01-07 ¶Tim Love, vice chairman and chief executive for the Asia-Pacific, India, Middle East and Africa regions at the Omnicom Group, intends to retire at the end of the first quarter, he said in a statement from the agency. As a step in that direction, Mr. Love, who had been based in Singapore, has returned to the Omnicom headquarters in New York and will work from there until his retirement.

¶Todd Anderman joined the Thrillist Media Group, New York, as president for sales, marketing and operations, a new post that includes duties previously handled by Adam Chandler, chief revenue officer, who left. Mr. Anderman had most recently been chief media and revenue officer at Jumptap.

¶Stephen Larkin joined 180L.A. — the Santa Monica, Calif., office of 180, part of the Omnicom Group — as chief marketing officer, a new post. He had been managing director at the Pittsburgh office of Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Mitchell Communications Group, Fayetteville, Ark., a public relations agency, was acquired by the Dentsu Network, New York, a unit of Dentsu, Tokyo. Financial terms were not disclosed. Elise Mitchell, chief executive at Mitchell Communications, will continue in that post and also join the executive team and operating committee of Dentsu Network, reporting to Tim Andree, chief executive at Dentsu Network, and helping Mr. Andree identify further opportunities in public relations. Also, Sarah Clark, executive vice president and chief strategy officer at Mitchell Communications, was named president of the agency.

¶WPP, London, acquired a 20 percent stake in Globant, Buenos Aires, which develops software products used in digital marketing campaigns, for about $70 million. Globant works for WPP clients like American Express as well as for WPP units like the Grey Group, GroupM and JWT. Separately, the GroupM division of WPP acquired a majority stake in Play Communications, Sydney, Australia, which specializes in experiential marketing; financial terms were not disclosed.

¶The National Advertising Division, New York, administered by the Council of Better Business Bureaus, referred advertising claims to two federal agencies after the marketer running the ads, Farnam Pet Products, said it would not abide by the division’s recommendations to modify or discontinue the claims. The ads, for Adams Flea and Tick Spot On for Dogs, sold by Farnam, included claims that the product “starts to kill fleas and ticks in 15 minutes”; the division said the evidence provided by Farnam showed the product reached full efficacy seven days after application. The agencies are the Federal Trade Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency; the E.P.A. is involved because the active ingredients in the product are pesticides that are regulated by the E.P.A. The division, part of the advertising industry’s self-regulatory process, became involved because the FidoPharm division of Velcera, which makes PetArmor, a product that competes against the Farnam product, brought to the division a challenge to the claims.
111 2013-01-07 “Well, the C.I.A. has acknowledged that it has detained about 100 terrorists since 9/11, and about a third of them have been subjected to what the C.I.A. refers to as enhanced interrogation tactics, and only a small proportion of those have in fact been subjected to the most serious types of enhanced procedures ... There have been a lot of information that has come out from these interrogation procedures that the agency has in fact used against the real hard-core terrorists. It has saved lives. And let's not forget, these are hardened terrorists who have been responsible for 9/11, who have shown no remorse at all for the deaths of 3,000 innocents.”  "The Early Show" on CBS, Nov. 2, 2007

“I think it is certainly subjecting an individual to severe pain and suffering, which is the classic definition of torture. And I believe, quite frankly, it's inconsistent with American values and it's something that should be prohibited. But I think Judge [Michael B.] Mukasey is in a very difficult position right now as the attorney general nominee, to be asked whether or not this is torture. And if torture, then, is unconstitutional or illegal, they’re asking whether or not waterboarding is illegal and whether or not the individuals, which includes the president and others–if it was used, who authorized and actually used this type of procedure may be subject to some type of judicial action.”  "The Early Show" on CBS, Nov. 2, 2007

“The United States is the first nation to regularly conduct strikes using remotely piloted aircraft in an armed conflict. Other nations also possess this technology, and any more nations are seeking it, and more will succeed in acquiring it. President Obama and those of us on his national security team are very mindful that as our nation uses this technology, we are establishing precedents that other nations may follow, and not all of those nations may — and not all of them will be nations that share our interests or the premium we put on protecting human life, including innocent civilians.



If we want other nations to use these technologies responsibly, we must use them responsibly. If we want other nations to adhere to high and rigorous standards for their use, then we must do so as well. We cannot expect of others what we will not do ourselves. President Obama has therefore demanded that we hold ourselves to the highest possible standards, that, at every step, we be as thorough and as deliberate as possible."  Speech before the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, April 30, 2012

“When it comes to individuals who are determined to destroy our nation, though, we have to make sure that we take every possible measure. It's a tough ethical question, and it's a question that really needs to be aired more publicly. The issue of the reported domestic spying — these are very healthy debates that need to take place. They can't be stifled, because I think that we as a country and a society have to determine what is it we want to do, whether it be eavesdropping, whether it be taking actions against individuals who are either known or suspected to be terrorists. What length do we want to go to? What measures do we want to use? What tactics do we want to use?



“Hopefully, that "dark side" is not going to be something that's going to forever tarnish the image of the United States abroad and that we're going to look back on this time and regret some of the things that we did, because it is not in keeping with our values.”  PBS “Frontline” Interview, March 8, 2006

“Congress has not made this easy. And so what we're trying to do is to make sure we do this responsibly. The president said he is going to close it down. He has continued to be determined to do that. But we have to do it in a manner that does not put the safety of the American people in jeopardy, but also in a manner that we can bring justice to those people.



We'll work with the Congress. We'll continue to have ongoing discussions with them. And I'm hoping certainly one day that the people in Guantánamo will no longer be there.”  CNN’s “State of the Union,” April 29, 2012

“Their capability has been degraded significantly. We have taken off the battlefield the founding leader as well as other leading operatives. We have degraded their infrastructure. Their capability to train. Their capability to deploy operatives. So their capability has been degraded. Our defenses have increased. But that doesn't mean we can rest. And we're not going to rest until Al Qaeda the organization is destroyed and is eliminated from areas in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Africa and other areas. We're determined to do that.”  ABC’s “This Week With George Stephanopoulos,” April 29, 2012
112 2013-01-07 After buying Countrywide Financial in 2008, Bank of America’s share of mortgage originations soared. But by last year, after dealing with huge losses from Countrywide’s loans, its share had dropped to 4.2%.
113 2013-01-08 Wesley Wang, a former analyst at SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund, has given federal agents the names of about 20 people that he said engaged in insider trading....
114 2013-01-08 After an exhaustive and secret gubernatorial vetting process, a 1996 Ford Bronco passes muster for Andrew M. Cuomo's daughters....
115 2013-01-08 The Department of Justice and the Patent and Trademark Office are urging that standard patents not be used as weapons in the smartphone wars....
116 2013-01-08 A close look at the $182 billion rescue of American International Group suggests that the government may not have been as harsh as a lawsuit contends....
117 2013-01-08 Robert Levinson, a former F.B.I. agent who went missing in Iran in 2007, was dressed like a prisoner at the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, in photographs sent to his family....
118 2013-01-08 The Directors Guild of America unveils its nominees....
119 2013-01-08 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
120 2013-01-08 Expectations among investors and others are high for change under Xi Jinping, but he appears to be facing his first major test with the public blowup over the censoring of the liberal newspaper Southern Weekend....
121 2013-01-08 Myrlie Evers-Williams, a former chairwoman of the N.A.A.C.P. who is also the widow of the slain civil rights activist Medgar Evars, will deliver the invocation at President Obama's second inaugural this month, Mr. Obama's inaugural planners said....
122 2013-01-08 Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings, the cruise ship operator backed by the private equity firms Apollo Global Management and TPG, has set a price of $16 to $18 a share for an initial public offering....
123 2013-01-08 As a loan broker, I speak every day to business owners who are trying to borrow money and bankers who say they want to lend it. Here is what I see happening on the front lines....
124 2013-01-08 Hard data shows that increases in tax rates often precede a strong bull market....
125 2013-01-08 The major changes proposed by the commission would require legislation.

After storms in 2011 and again after Hurricane Sandy cut power to 90 percent of Long Island Power Authority customers, that longstanding arrangement drew criticism from officials, including Mr. Cuomo. They blamed it for the authority’s disorganized response, which left most customers without power for more than a week in November, and some for over two weeks.

To improve the way utilities prepare for and respond to storms like Hurricane Sandy, the governor said, state regulators need a better set of potential incentives and sanctions. Most of all, he said, they need the ability to brandish the threat of withdrawing a utility’s certificate to operate.

“We have to be at a place where the relationship can be terminated if it needs to be terminated,” Mr. Cuomo said. And right now, he said, customers on Long Island want “a divorce” from the power authority.

In a statement, Mark Gross, a spokesman for the authority, said: “We are reviewing the report and will continue to cooperate with the state and the Moreland Commission to do what is in the best interest of Long Island’s ratepayers.”

Mr. Lawsky said the commission, whose co-chairman was Robert Abrams, a former state attorney general, considered other options for fixing LIPA, including expanding it or merging it with another state agency. But there were many problems with those ideas, including requiring the addition of about 2,000 state employees, the commission decided.

Placing the power grid in private hands would be the most cost-effective option and would put its operation under the scrutiny of state regulators, the Moreland Commission concluded. It would then operate as other big utilities like Con Edison do, rather than in the bifurcated way it has for more than three decades.

The power authority, which has just 112 employees, does not actually operate the system for distributing electricity on Long Island. It merely owns the grid, and oversees the work of a utility company — National Grid, which is in the final year of its contract — that it pays to keep the power flowing.

The unusual arrangement goes largely unnoticed until a storm blows in and knocks out power to large swaths of the island. Then, attention turns to the authority’s executives and the board of political appointees they answer to.

“Dysfunctional” was the word the commissioners used most frequently to describe the authority’s response.

Asked if he accepted any fault for not addressing the authority’s shortcomings sooner, Mr. Cuomo said, “Absolutely not.”

He blamed the failure to restructure LIPA and reform the regulatory regime on a lack of “political will.” He said he believed that “the system has been skewed in favor of the utility companies” and said improving the dynamic would require “legislation and legal changes that restructure dramatically the way this relationship works.”

The commission said the regulatory agency needed a larger staff and should have more engineers and auditors to monitor utilities effectively, but it provided no estimate of how much that expansion would cost.

Mr. Abrams said the commission was handicapped by the $100,000-a-day limit on fines it can impose on a utility, and a “burden of proof that is very high.” He suggested a much higher limit on fines: 0.2 percent of a company’s gross revenue, which could amount to $750,000 a day for LIPA or $2 million for Con Edison.

A more complicated financial issue is the question of how to make the Long Island grid attractive to a private buyer. The authority is saddled with about $7 billion in debt it took on to build the Shoreham nuclear plant, which was shuttered before it ever operated commercially. Mr. Lawsky said the authority had assets worth about $4 billion, which would leave it with about $3 billion of “stranded debt.” Another obstacle to privatization cited by some industry experts would be the loss of the ability to issue tax-exempt debt, which would increase the costs of paying to run the utility.

Still, Mr. Lawsky contended that the operation could be refinanced, through a “complex transaction” that had not yet been devised.
126 2013-01-08 “Somewhere between disastrous and catastrophic” is how Sam Lehman-Wilzig, deputy director of the school of communication at Bar-Ilan University, described the incumbent’s campaign so far. “There’s no ‘there’ there. It’s a pure emotional ‘we don’t want the left in power’ and ‘trust me’ and ‘I have experience and that’s why you should vote for me.’ I don’t think that’s going to enthuse a lot of people.”

Mr. Netanyahu’s allies and campaign aides acknowledge that the last month has been rocky, but they said the next two weeks would be what matters. “The only poll that we are looking at is the election results on Jan. 22,” said one senior official, promising a “much more focused messages in the homestretch.”

Critics say the first major mistake was the decision to merge Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud Party with the ultranationalist Yisrael Beiteinu. That, combined with a Likud primary that ousted several popular moderates, alienated some centrist voters, the analysts said. Then, as right-wingers flocked to Naftali Bennett, the charismatic young leader of the new Jewish Home party, Mr. Netanyahu attacked him as well as the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party, a longtime political partner. Both attacks seem to have backfired.

Some analysts and people inside Likud-Beiteinu complain that the prime minister has been too quiet and reactive, and that his recent push on Jewish settlements in East Jerusalem and the West Bank put the Palestinian conflict at the center of the campaign, forcing the Iranian nuclear threat, on which he is stronger, into the background.

In most of these cases, “you can see the fingerprints of Finkelstein,” said Gabriel Weimann, a professor at the University of Haifa who specializes in political communication, referring to the American political consultant Arthur Finkelstein. “Finkelstein is running the campaign. People in his own party were criticizing Netanyahu for following Finkelstein when he is sitting in the States and doesn’t know what’s happening here.”

Mr. Finkelstein, a Republican strategist from Westchester County, N.Y., who has run many hard-edged conservative campaigns in the United States and Israel, including Mr. Netanyahu’s for his first term as prime minister in 1996, declined through campaign aides to be interviewed. He was summoned to Jerusalem last week as the campaign was flailing, and several analysts and insiders say they can already see the beginning of a shift in strategy.

For one, the attacks on Mr. Bennett have ceased. And the prime minister seems to be lightening up: he made a big show of wearing jeans to a young professionals’ campaign event here Sunday night, and he was warm and personable in an interview broadcast Monday night, sitting in his childhood home as he recalled playing ball and roasting potatoes with his brothers.

Perhaps most important, the prime minister is newly focused on opponents to the left. Over the weekend, three leaders of center-left parties talked about joining together to create what they called a “blocking coalition” to prevent Mr. Netanyahu from forming the next government. If this effort by the three forms into a credible threat, it could scare back into the fold those conservative voters so confident in the prime minister’s re-election that they wanted to send a message by choosing a smaller party.

“The main focus will be, of course, that we can face a coalition of those three parties the day after,” Silvan Shalom, a senior Likud minister, said Monday of the campaign’s new message. Acknowledging the stumbles so far, Mr. Shalom said, “We have to push harder; we have to work harder; we have to explain.”

Israeli campaigns are a sprint, and analysts caution that there could be major movement before the Jan. 22 balloting, particularly once the television commercials are unveiled starting Tuesday. Already, Mr. Netanyahu’s face is ubiquitous on billboards and overpasses here in Tel Aviv, alongside the campaign’s slogan, “A strong prime minister, a strong Israel.”

The prime minister, who has barely hit the campaign trail, made a brief appearance at a dance club Sunday night, spending several minutes reaching out from the stage to touch a few hands, with bodyguards close on three sides. He spoke for less time, asking where his young sons were in the crowd and then joking, “You are all my sons.”

“Who wants to keep protecting Israel?” he asked. “There is only one choice.”

Hundreds of people in their 20s and 30s, mostly men, filled the dance floor, though few danced despite the pulsing music, instead staring at smartphones or waving fluorescent light sticks. “A vote for a small party weakens Israel,” read the campaign fliers distributed at the party. “I will not waste my vote.”

The front-runner’s problem was on clear display in several interviews at the rally. Richard Binstock, 33, an immigrant from London who works in the high-tech field, said of Mr. Netanyahu, “He stands for Israel and he defends Israel and I respect that.” Then he said he planned to vote for Mr. Bennett.

Samuel Scott, 32, who works in marketing and voted for Mr. Netanyahu in 2009, expressed a similar attitude. “I do admire Bibi personally, and I am a member of the Likud,” Mr. Scott said, using the prime minister’s nickname. “They just may not get my vote in this election. I really despise their campaign tactics. I think it’s selfish to say a vote for any other party is a wasted vote.”
127 2013-01-08 Ralph Abecassis, a DSA executive, said tenants at 11 Maiden Lane never lost phone service because of the storm and did not need the additional services that Verizon wanted to provide. He did not respond to inquiries about Verizon’s contention about a demand for payment.

Some other buildings in the area have yet to have their phone service restored, however, Verizon officials said.

Mr. Bonomo said Verizon sometimes paid a “nominal fee” for permission to post fliers advertising its services or to set up a sales table in a building lobby. But some landlords have asked for significantly more to allow Verizon in to install equipment, he said.

Door fees and other financial arrangements between landlords and cable companies were commonplace before regulators started fostering competition. The companies paid to have exclusive access to apartment buildings and complexes, either in upfront fees based on the number of potential customers or by agreeing to share the revenue derived from tenants.

But in 2007, the Federal Communications Commission banned cable companies from striking such deals to keep competitors out. That decision, which was upheld in 2009 by a federal appeals court, helped phone companies like Verizon compete with incumbent cable system operators like Time Warner.

Verizon has been rushing to replace all of the copper wire that was damaged by the salt water that flooded into the financial district when Hurricane Sandy hit more than two months ago. The conversion gives Verizon the chance to sell its “triple play” combination of telephone, broadband and cable television services. The company appealed to regulators on the need to restore telephone service but based the petition on a regulation that prohibits blocking access to cable TV providers.

Landlords and their representatives said they recognized the opportunity Verizon was hoping to cash in on. But some said they did not feel any urgency to let the company in to start running wires along their stairwells and hallways.

Two of the larger buildings Verizon cited — luxury high-rises at 2 Gold Street and 201 Pearl Street — have been uninhabitable since the storm. Their owner, TF Cornerstone, said through a spokesman that the first priority was “the rebuilding of our critical infrastructure,” including heat, hot water and electricity.

“We are surprised by Verizon’s action related to our property in Lower Manhattan, especially considering there are presently no tenants occupying the building and at no time have we conditioned Verizon’s access on unreasonable terms,” the spokesman, Frank Marino, said in a statement.

The other buildings Verizon cited included another managed by DSA, at 700 East Ninth Street, and two owned by Rockrose, at 200 Water Street and 22 River Terrace. Calls to the property manager for Rockrose were not returned.
128 2013-01-08 The recent lawsuits suggest that in only a limited number of cases did a verdict most likely hinge on Dr. Hayne’s testimony. But without any systematic review, it remains a question as to what that number may be.

“There are hundreds of cases that have to be reconsidered,” said Dr. James Lauridson, a former state medical examiner in Alabama, who provided an affidavit in one of the recently filed cases. Dr. Lauridson said Dr. Hayne was an extreme example of a familiar problem: a forensic analyst with inadequate training who was given far too much deference in the courts.

“After you do that long enough, your initially shaky opinions become way out of the mainstream,” Dr. Lauridson said. “That is what happened to him.”

Dr. Hayne was sidelined by state officials after his analyses — and those of one of his close collaborators — led to several murder convictions that were later overturned or thrown out. But he insists that his work has been intentionally distorted by critics.

“I don’t think I was treated fairly,” he said last month at his house in a gated community overlooking the Ross Barnett Reservoir. “Is that the way you treat people after 20 years of working like a dog?”

A physician and pathologist, Dr. Hayne, now 71, began performing autopsies in Mississippi in the late 1980s. He served briefly as interim state medical examiner though he was not, as state law required, board certified in forensic pathology. From 1989, when he left the interim post, to 2010, the office of medical examiner was unfilled for all but five years. Dr. Hayne, working as a private contractor, almost single-handedly picked up the slack.

By his own count, he performed as many as 1,700 autopsies some years, in addition to having his own pathology practice. Dr. David Fowler, the chief medical examiner in Maryland and a former chairman of the standards committee for the National Association of Medical Examiners, called the number “beyond defensible.”

Dr. Hayne said that state-appointed medical examiners simply did not have his motivation as a fee-based contractor, nor his work ethic. “How many autopsies could they do?” he said. “They could do one or 500, they get paid the same amount. Is there any incentive to do a heavy load?”

That incentive is at the heart of the challenges filed on behalf of prisoners in recent weeks, most of them by the Mississippi Innocence Project. The cases in those filings are not clear cut, and in all of them there is circumstantial evidence suggesting guilt and innocence. But Dr. Hayne’s testimony was key.

In one case, Dr. Hayne performed an autopsy of a young boy and concluded he had been suffocated. Some weeks after the boy was buried, his 3-year-old brother told the police that he had been killed by his mother’s boyfriend. Officials exhumed the body, and Dr. Hayne had a cast made of the boy’s face. By comparing his initial notes of face wounds with the cast, Dr. Hayne testified, he found it probable that the boy had been suffocated by a large male hand. The boyfriend was convicted.

“I saw a very similar case like that on ‘Law & Order: SVU,’ ” said Dr. Andrew M. Baker, the president of the medical examiners’ association and chief medical examiner for Hennepin County, Minn. “I’ve never heard of it in real life.” Dr. Baker said not only was the technique unheard of but so was the ability to speculate from those sorts of wounds about hand size or gender.

Dr. Hayne suggested he was just being innovative. “Maybe we should have published,” he said upon being reminded of the case.

The Innocence Project has been trying to examine past cases in which Dr. Hayne’s testimony was pivotal, as state officials have shown no inclination to order a formal review. (Radley Balko, currently a reporter for The Huffington Post, has also investigated numerous cases.)

In 2009, Dr. Hayne sued the Innocence Project for defamation, and last spring the group paid him a $100,000 settlement. Innocence Project officials cited insurance reasons, though Dr. Hayne’s lawyer hailed it as a vindication.

But in preparing to combat the suit, lawyers for the Innocence Project said they uncovered new information. They said they found details about Dr. Hayne’s academic record and qualifications that significantly contradicted his own accounts, often given under oath.

They also found a 1992 proposal concerning Dr. Hayne drafted by a senior state official. Dr. Hayne was performing 80 percent of the state’s autopsies, the memo said, and would most likely continue to do so even if a new medical examiner were appointed. The state could save on salaries and office costs by giving Dr. Hayne the title, but letting him continue to charge $500 per autopsy as a private contractor.

Though the plan was shelved, and the office remained unfilled for most of the next 15 years, Dr. Hayne maintained his high-volume business and was eventually allowed to use the title of chief state pathologist.

Tucker Carrington, the director of the Mississippi Innocence Project and a professor at the University of Mississippi Law School, said this arrangement explained why Dr. Hayne was allowed to dominate the field for so long.

“What Hayne did was act as anyone would have predicted, which is not as an objective pathologist but someone who is in the marketplace,” Mr. Carrington said. “The state gave him this opportunity and gave him his blessing.”

That blessing was revoked in 2008, when, despite some opposition, Mississippi’s public safety commissioner removed Dr. Hayne from a list of approved forensic pathologists. The state hired a chief medical examiner in 2010.

But many coroners and district attorneys remain staunch defenders of Dr. Hayne and his work; for years, some point out, he was the only pathologist available.

“I’m sure there’s a lot of people that don’t like Hayne, but from a prosecutor’s standpoint I don’t know anybody who didn’t like him,” said John T. Kitchens, a former district attorney and circuit court judge. “He was always so helpful and useful to law enforcement. And he worked all the time.”

In a conversation that ranged from the fall of the Roman republic to the folly of the Vietnam War, Dr. Hayne remained unbowed. He said that his analyses never strayed outside the acceptable norms of science, that he testified without an agenda and that his findings were either being deliberately misinterpreted or unfairly conflated with the erroneous work of others.

“I think they were thorough, complete and withstood the test of time,” Dr. Hayne said of his reports.

Dr. Lloyd White, who was Mississippi’s state medical examiner from 1989 to 1992, said the problems concerning Dr. Hayne, while extreme, were rooted in the nature of the system in which he worked. Such problems, he said, are not unique to Mississippi, and are able to persist because scientific testimony is too often viewed with uncritical reverence and because the people affected by its misuse usually have little support or sympathy.

“I had a prosecutor one time tell me, ‘These guys may not have done it but they’re bad guys and they have to go to prison,’ ” Dr. White said. “The whole thing kind of rolls downhill from there. And in the interim you can’t help but wonder how many people ended up in prison who didn’t get a fair trial.”
129 2013-01-08 LONDON — In the first of a number of high-profile trials expected this year in cases of alleged criminal wrongdoing at Britain’s freewheeling newspapers, a high-ranking Scotland Yard officer went on trial on Monday, charged with seeking to sell confidential police information to a tabloid that Rupert Murdoch ordered shut 18 months ago as the phone-hacking scandal erupted around his British newspaper empire.

The case against the officer, Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn, 53, stemmed from a telephone call in September 2010 in which, prosecutors say, she gave a reporter for The News of the World details of a newly reopened investigation into accusations of voice mail hacking by the tabloid. At the time of the call, Ms. Casburn was a senior officer in Scotland Yard’s top-secret counterterrorism unit, code-named SO15.

With at least six separate inquiries into different aspects of the scandal, and a total of 180 police officers and officials assigned to the work, the overall police operation has been described by senior police officials as the most extensive — and expensive — criminal investigation in Scotland Yard’s history. Altogether, more than 90 people have been arrested, though fewer than a dozen have been charged. Prosecutors have said that charges against others are likely to follow.

Investigations that have turned up evidence of police wrongdoing, in the form of alleged payments and other benefits given by the tabloids to serving officers in return for confidential information, have been a factor in a battery of high-level resignations. Police commanders say progress in the investigations, and successful prosecutions, will be an important test for Scotland Yard, formally known as the Metropolitan Police Service, whose reputation has been badly battered by the scandal.

In addition to corrupt payments to police and other public officials, the charges laid out so far by prosecutors include conspiracy to intercept cellphone messages, the touchstone of the investigations, involving hundreds of celebrities, politicians, sports stars and crime victims; and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice by destroying or hiding evidence, including e-mails and other documents.
130 2013-01-08 “I think the Russians understood this is the one thing that could get us to intervene in the war,” one senior defense official said last week. “What Assad understood, and whether that understanding changes if he gets cornered in the next few months, that’s anyone’s guess.”

While chemical weapons are technically considered a “weapon of mass destruction” — along with biological and nuclear weapons — in fact they are hard to use and hard to deliver. Whether an attack is effective can depend on the winds and the terrain. Sometimes attacks are hard to detect, even after the fact. Syrian forces could employ them in a village or a neighborhood, some officials say, and it would take time for the outside world to know.

But the scare a month ago has renewed debate about whether the West should help the Syrian opposition destroy Mr. Assad’s air force, which he would need to deliver those 500-pound bombs.

The chemical munitions are still in storage areas that are near or on Syrian air bases, ready for deployment on short notice, officials said.

The Obama administration and other governments have said little in public about the chemical weapons movements, in part because of concern about compromising sources of intelligence about the activities of Mr. Assad’s forces. This account is based on interviews with more than half a dozen military, intelligence and diplomatic officials, all of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the intelligence matters involved.

The head of ’s foreign intelligence service, the BND, warned in a confidential assessment last month that the weapons could now be deployed four to six hours after orders were issued, and that Mr. Assad had a special adviser at his side who oversaw control of the weapons, the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported. Some American and other allied officials, however, said in interviews that the sarin-laden bombs could be loaded on planes and airborne in less than two hours.

“Let’s just say right now, it would be a relatively easy thing to load this quickly onto aircraft,” said one Western diplomat.

How the United States and Israel, along with Arab states, would respond remains a mystery. American and allied officials have talked vaguely of having developed “contingency plans” in case they decided to intervene in an effort to neutralize the chemical weapons, a task that the Pentagon estimates would require upward of 75,000 troops. But there have been no evident signs of preparations for any such effort.

The United States military has quietly sent a task force of more than 150 planners and other specialists to Jordan to help the armed forces there, among other things, prepare for the possibility that Syria will lose control of its chemical weapons.

Israel’s prime minister, , was reported to have traveled to Jordan in recent weeks, and the Israeli news media have said the topic of discussion was how to deal with Syrian weapons if it appeared that they could be transferred to , where could lob them over the border to Israel. But the plans, to the extent they exist, remain secret.

American, Israeli and other allied officials remained fixed on this potential crisis, especially as the opposition appears to have gained more momentum, seizing several Syrian military bases and the weapons stored there, and have been closing in on Damascus, the Syrian capital.

In response, Syria has reached deeper into its conventional arsenal, including firing Scud ballistic missiles at rebel positions near Aleppo. Over the past week a new concern emerged: Syrian forces began shooting new, accurate short-range missiles, believed to have been manufactured in . None had chemical warheads. But their use showed that the Syrian military was now deploying a more accurate weapon than the notoriously inaccurate Scud missiles they have used in previous attacks.

As the fighting has escalated, American and other allied officials have said that government troops have moved some of the chemical stockpiles to safer locations, a consolidation that, if it continues, could actually help Western forces should they have to enter Syria to seize control of the munitions or destroy them.

Syria’s chemical weapons are under the control of a secretive Syrian air force organization called Unit 450, a highly vetted outfit that is deemed one of the most loyal to the Assad government given the importance of the weapons in its custody.

American officials said that some of the back-channel messages in recent weeks were directed at the commanders of this unit, warning them — as Mr. Obama warned Mr. Assad on Dec. 3 — that they would be held personally responsible if the government used its chemical weapons.

Asked about these communications and whether they have been successful, an American intelligence official said only, “The topic is extremely sensitive, and public discussion, even on background, will be problematic.”

Allied officials say whatever safeguards the Syrian government have taken, there remains great concern that the weapons could fall into the hands of Islamist extremists fighting the government or the militant group Hezbollah, which has established small training camps near some of the storage sites.

“Militants who got their hands on such munitions would find it difficult to deploy them effectively without the associated aircraft, artillery or rocket launcher systems,” said Jeremy Binnie, a terrorism and insurgency specialist at IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly. “That said, Hezbollah would probably be able to deploy them effectively against Israel with a bit of help.”
131 2013-01-08 BOSTON (Reuters) — A Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft with no passengers on board caught fire at Logan International Airport in Boston on Monday when a battery in its auxiliary electrical system exploded, officials said.

A mechanic inspecting the Japan Airlines jet discovered smoke in the cockpit while performing a routine postflight inspection and reported it to airport authorities around 10:30 a.m. Eastern time, said Bob Donahue, the fire chief of the Massachusetts Port Authority.

A fire crew responded and determined that a battery used to power the plane’s electrical systems when the engines are not running had exploded, Chief Donahue said. The mechanic was the only person on board the plane when the smoke was discovered, and no one was hurt by the fire, he added.

“Passengers were in no danger, as this event had happened at least 15 minutes after they deplaned,” Chief Donahue said.

The fire is the latest reported mechanical failure in a string of incidents affecting Boeing’s new Dreamliner, which was also plagued by production problems that delayed initial delivery by three and a half years.
132 2013-01-08 In a move that underlines how many Chinese citizens now work in Africa, China’s quarantine officials recently urged greater efforts to make sure that a yellow fever epidemic now raging in Sudan does not come back to China.

Local health authorities were asked to scan all travelers arriving from Sudan for fevers. Chinese citizens planning travel to Sudan were advised to get yellow fever shots. Customs officers were told that containers arriving from Sudan might have stray infected mosquitoes inside.

Sudan’s epidemic is considered the world’s worst in 20 years. Sweden, Britain and other donors have paid for vaccinations. The United States Navy’s laboratory in Egypt has helped with diagnoses.

Estimates of the number of Chinese working in Africa, many in the oil and mining industries or on major construction projects, range from 500,000 to 1 million. Experts on AIDS have previously warned that the workers could become a new means of bringing that disease to China, which has a low H.I.V.-infection rate.

ProMED-mail, a Web site that follows emerging diseases, has tracked reports about the Sudan outbreak, with its moderators adding valuable context. China’s mosquito-killing winters make a large yellow fever outbreak there unlikely, moderators said. But Sudan’s containment efforts are troubled. For example, vaccinated people cannot get cards proving they have had shots, but the cards are reported to be for sale at police checkpoints.

Australia’s now-endemic dengue fever, according to ProMED moderators, may have come from mosquitoes arriving in containers from East Timor.
133 2013-01-08 In an unusual response to provisions in a new European copyright law, scheduled to take effect by 2014, Sony Music has released a compilation of early Bob Dylan recordings that is bound to become one of his most collectible albums. “The 50th Anniversary Collection,” which carries a subtitle — “The Copyright Extension Collection, Vol. 1” — that explains its purpose, was rushed to only a handful of record shops in Germany, France, Sweden and Britain just after Christmas.

Only about 100 copies of the four-CD set were produced, with sparse packaging and an insert listing the details of the set’s 86 tracks, all previously unreleased studio outtakes and live recordings from 1962 and 1963.

It also comes as a downloadable version, available through the singers’s Web site, bobdylan.com, but only to fans who log on from France or Germany. (Prices for the CD set vary from country to country, from the equivalent of $39 to, in Britain, $138)

American collectors are locked out, although for those desperate to have an original CD set, several have made their way to eBay, where bids have gone as high as about $1,450. (For collectors who want the recordings, but who don’t care about having one of the 100 original CDs, the set has been turning up on file-sharing sites.)

Two spokesmen for Sony confirmed that the set was legitimate, its bootleglike appearance notwithstanding. They explained that the point of the release was to keep the recordings under copyright protection in Europe, where the laws are in flux. Currently, recordings can be copyrighted in Europe for 50 years, a much shorter term than in the United States, where recordings made since 1978 will remain copyrighted until 70 years after the death of the last surviving author.
134 2013-01-08 CAIRO — A court in Bahrain on Monday upheld prison sentences for 13 of the country’s most prominent dissidents, in a decision that government opponents offered as evidence that the monarchy was ignoring calls to negotiate a political solution that could quiet a nearly two-year-old uprising.

The decision ends all appeals for the dissidents, who were sentenced to between five years and life in prison for their leadership roles in the revolt that began in February 2011, according to a colleague of one of the jailed opposition members. The 13 are part of a group of 20 opposition leaders who were sentenced by a military tribunal on charges that included trying to overthrow the government. Other dissidents were sentenced in absentia.

The court decision deepened the sense of a political stalemate in Bahrain, an important ally of the United States and the host of the Navy’s Fifth Fleet. Since pledging to accept reform recommendations made by an independent panel that investigated the uprising — including to commute sentences of those charged with “political expression” — Bahrain’s government has continued to silence its critics. In November, the government stripped 31 people, including former opposition lawmakers and exiled dissidents, of their citizenship.

Last month, a judge upheld a prison sentence for a human rights advocate, Nabeel Rajab, who was convicted of inciting protests. As the security forces have moved to contain protests, the contest over freedom in Bahrain has moved to the judiciary. Activists accuse the courts of being little more than arms of the government that endorse charges for political crimes.

In a statement carried by the state news agency, Bahrain’s attorney general said Monday that the defendants had been given “full opportunities to present their defense.”
135 2013-01-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
136 2013-01-09 Wesley Wang's information helped convict 10 people, prosecutors said in praising his assistance....
137 2013-01-09 In the 1990s, Rev. Louie Giglio referred in a sermon to the “aggressive agenda’' of the gay rights movement, and advocated “the healing power of Jesus” as “the only way out of a homosexual lifestyle.”...
138 2013-01-09 The inquiry by the agency's enforcement unit adds to the scrutiny of Herbalife, the nutritional supplements company that has been a favorite target of prominent hedge fund short-sellers....
139 2013-01-09 An anti-Semitism watchdog has provoked a storm by including a prominent German journalist in a list of leading anti-Semites. His defenders insist criticism of Israel does not equate with hatred of Jews....
140 2013-01-09 Daniel S. Loeb’s Third Point disclosed that it had acquired more than 8.2 percent of the nutritional supplements company. That puts him at odds with his friend William A. Ackman....
141 2013-01-09 A former SAC analyst has given federal agents the names of about 20 people he said had engaged in insider trading. | Dish Network challenges Sprint Nextel's bid for Clearwire. | Lawmakers warn A.I.G. not to sue the government. | A new banking comp...
142 2013-01-09 Dissenting from Fed decisions eight times in a single year makes for some rare company....
143 2013-01-09 In an interview a few years back, Richard Maxwell described the experience of reading a script by his fellow playwright and director Julia Jarcho: “It has density and yet it still feels ephemeral.”

He wasn’t talking about Ms. Jarcho’s new work, “Grimly Handsome,” but he easily could have been. The 90-minute intermissionless play, part of Incubator Arts Project’s Other Forces festival, presents layer upon layer of involved, dialogue-heavy plot. Yet it never fully reveals itself or coheres, so that, in addition to the danger and suspense faced by the characters, the audience members must deal with the unstable narrative ground shifting beneath their own feet.

Structurally, “Grimly Handsome” is an intertwined triptych, the shifts in frame signaled by movements of Jason Simms’s deft set and costume changes undertaken by its three fine actors, who will be happily familiar to New York theatergoers: Jenny Seastone Stern, Pete Simpson and Ben Williams.

Ms. Jarcho keeps her material convoluted and elusive by (largely effective) design, and she needs performers like these to make it work, particularly at the junctures where the script is straining a bit after strangeness. (It would be interesting to see what another director would make of Ms. Jarcho’s words.)

It wouldn’t do to give too much away about a play that is on one level a straightforward crime drama, but suffice it to say that these three must play perpetrators and their victim, police detectives and their suspect, and, as the poetic and often very funny script puts it, “some kinda imaginary urban wildlife.” These creatures, brought to goofy, fairy tale life by Ásta Bennie Hostetter’s masked costumes, bear strange, id-like witness to the hidden life of the city.

It’s a dark, often sinister life, subtly echoed by Cooper Gardner’s sound design. Danger lurks in all corners: Christmas tree salesmen from foreign lands use gorgeous language to hint at unspeakable threats, while policemen court treachery from their fellow officers and long for the possibilities of a life of crime.
144 2013-01-09 Are Macau's fast-rising gambling revenues a sign of a expanding Chinese economy or of shrinking confidence among wealthy Chinese who may be "washing" their money in order to emigrate? Or both?...
145 2013-01-09 The consequences could stretch beyond Monday night, beyond one final loss. It could haunt Te’o when N.F.L. teams are considering their draft boards.

“This was the type of performance that could push him out of the first 32 picks,” said Rob Rang, an N.F.L. Draft analyst for CBSSports.com. Rang added, “Struggling on the biggest stage of his life is not going to help his cause.”

Of any college football team, Alabama most resembled an N.F.L. team, Rang said, so video from Monday’s game could be considered a good predictor of Te’o’s ability as a pro. That video will show the Crimson Tide exploiting both Te’o’s weakness (speed) and his strength (tackling).

“He slipped off of players, didn’t bear down well in space, and just didn’t have the speed to beat the running back to the edge,” Rang said, although it did not take an expert to see that.

How Te’o’s performance will affect his draft stock is, of course, uncertain. But Notre Dame also faces a somewhat ambiguous path ahead.

Te’o will be gone. So will the senior tight end Tyler Eifert, Notre Dame’s top receiving threat; Theo Riddick, one of the Irish’s top rushers; and center Braxston Cave, among others. Running back Cierre Wood, who has a year of eligibility left, is considering making himself eligible for the draft.

Coach Brian Kelly could also be contemplating such a move.

On Saturday Kelly said of coaching in the N.F.L.: “It’s flattering if there is interest, which I don’t know that there is, but again, that is such a secondary topic for me right now. It’s all about this game.”

If Kelly stays his work will most likely start with quarterback Everett Golson. On Monday, Golson threw 36 passes, many of which fluttered or sailed, and finished with 270 yards, most coming after Alabama was comfortably ahead.

With Te’o gone, Notre Dame’s prospects should center even more around Golson’s development. The senior left tackle Zack Martin, who has a year of eligibility remaining, will be back, and the defensive line will return two stalwarts, Stephon Tuitt and Louis Nix III.

Trailing by 28 points at halftime Monday, hardly any of Te’o’s teammates had played well. But it is his draft status that could have been damaged the most.

“Obviously I have a lot of things to get better at,” Te’o said. “As far as draft stock, I’ll leave that up to the experts. I’m just going to be the best me I can be.”
146 2013-01-09 COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) — Caydee Denney and John Coughlin won’t defend their pairs title at the U.S. Figure Skating Championships later this month while he recovers from hip surgery.

U.S. Figure Skating said Tuesday that the two had withdrawn but gave no other details. Coughlin had surgery Dec. 4 to repair a torn labrum in his left hip.

The injury means the U.S. will have its fifth new pairs champion in as many years, creating instability in a discipline where longevity is a key factor in success. Denney and Coughlin’s withdrawal also means none of last year’s pairs medalists will be at nationals, which begin Jan. 24 in Omaha, Neb.

Runners-up Mary Beth Marley and Rockne Brubaker have split, as have bronze medalists Amanda Evora and Mark Ladwig.
147 2013-01-09 The first semifinal games in the new college football playoff system will be played in the Rose and the Sugar bowls on Jan. 1, 2015. Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex., seems to be the front-runner for the first championship game on Monday, Jan. 12. In the second year of the playoff, the Orange Bowl will host a semifinal, along with a site still to be determined, possibly the Chick-fil-A Bowl, the Cotton Bowl or the Fiesta Bowl.
148 2013-01-09 The economy continues to muddle along, shadowed by the threat of another government breakdown, and the crisis of high unemployment is only slowly receding. But in trying to address those problems by suppressing interest rates, the Fed risks the unleashing of speculation and inflation.

It is basically a matter of disposition: is it better to risk doing too much, or not enough?

Mr. Lacker, 57, often uses the word “humility” in describing his views. He means that the Fed should recognize that its power to stimulate the economy is limited, both for technical reasons and because it should not encroach on the domain of elected officials by picking winners and losers.

As he sees it, the Fed’s current effort to reduce unemployment by purchasing mortgage-backed securities crossed both lines. He sees little evidence that it will help to create jobs. And he says that buying mortgage bonds is a form of fiscal policy, because it lowers interest rates for a particular kind of borrower.

But Mr. Lacker is at pains to emphasize that his disagreement with the other 11 members of the Federal Open Market Committee, who supported the purchases, is not about the need for help.

“It’s very unfair to think of me as not caring about the unemployed,” he said. “It just seems to me that there are real impediments, that just throwing money at the economy is unlikely to solve the problems that are keeping a 55-year-old furniture worker from finding a good competitive job.”

That sense of caution is deeply frustrating to proponents of the Fed’s recent efforts. The economists Christina D. Romer and David H. Romer wrote in a paper published last month that such pessimism about the power of monetary policy is “the most dangerous idea in Federal Reserve history.”

“The view that hubris can cause central bankers to do great harm clearly has an important element of truth,” wrote the Romers, both professors at the University of California, Berkeley. “But the hundred years of Federal Reserve history show that humility can also cause large harms.”

It also makes an interesting contrast with Mr. Lacker’s personality. His favorite escape is driving a Porsche Boxster racecar; a model sits on a shelf at his office. He jokes that the track is the only place that people don’t ask him about interest rates — although, he adds, they do care about fuel prices.

And at the Fed, an institution that likes consensus, dissenting also requires a certain amount of boldness. Mr. Lacker has now said no at 13 of the 24 regular policy meetings he has attended as a voting member, one-third of all dissents since Ben S. Bernanke became the Fed’s chairman in 2006. He voted in 2006, 2009 and 2012 as part of the regular rotation of reserve bank presidents.

Even some who sympathize with his concerns doubt the efficacy of such public stands.

“The Fed is a club and dissenting puts you outside the club,” said Allen H. Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University who is a leading historian of the central bank. “You send the message to the public and that’s a good thing, but you also send a message inside the Fed and that’s not a good thing. You are isolating yourself.”

But Gary H. Stern, who served as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis from 1985 until 2009, said that the dissents were valuable.

“If you have a forceful and compelling rationale, I think that is constructive internally and externally,” Mr. Stern said. “I think the Fed obviously has been in my opinion dealt a difficult hand. To some extent the waters are uncharted. It would be in a way remarkable if you had unanimity under these circumstances and I think Jeff’s concerns about what the Fed can accomplish in this environment and what the risks on the inflation side may be, I think that those points need to be taken seriously.”

Mr. Lacker joined the Richmond Fed as an economist in 1989 after working as a professor at Purdue University. The regional reserve banks tend to gather like-minded economists, and Richmond has a long tradition of skepticism about monetary policy.

He became president in 2004, in an era of complacent satisfaction for central bankers, who took credit for a period of extraordinary economic stability that Mr. Bernanke and others called “The Great Moderation.” Mr. Lacker recalled that he regarded the major questions of monetary policy as settled.

“I thought we’d converged around a good healthy framework where the range of debate was going to be limited,” he said. “I was wrong about that.”

He continued to agree with Mr. Bernanke and the majority of the committee about some things. He dissented only once during 2009, otherwise voting with the majority in support of the Fed’s efforts to stimulate the economy by suppressing interest rates and buying Treasury securities. He also supports Mr. Bernanke’s efforts to increase transparency; he sees his own efforts to explain his dissents as part of the broader work of demystifying monetary policy.

Given the consequences if he’s right, does he ever worry that he’s not shouting loudly enough?

“I haven’t been running around like my hair’s on fire,” he said. “And I think for me that reflects some humility. I’m not absolutely certain that the risks I worry about are going to show up. The majority of the committee, and the course they’re on, they could be right.”

“And,” he said, “I sincerely hope that they are right.”
149 2013-01-09 “One of the characteristics of this administration has been that decision-making has been centered in the White House,” said , a Mideast expert who left the Obama administration a year ago but never wandered far from some of its key debates. “And most second-term administrations don’t change their sociology.”

But if they grab hold of the national security levers after what many predict will be, for Mr. Hagel and Mr. Brennan, bruising confirmation hearings, they will confront problems that may test whether the light footprint carries enough weight.

“Issues 1 and 2 will be cutting the defense budget and confronting ,” said , a political scientist whose 2010 book, “The Frugal Superpower,” dealt with the challenge of trying to manage the world on the cheap. “And then you will have issues like Syria, which test the question of whether you can manage to control a dangerous situation with no boots on the ground — and unless something dramatic changes, there will be no boots.”

Mr. Hagel, who was both a senator and a cellphone entrepreneur, has long been a critic of Pentagon bloat. But others with business experience, like , have believed they could bring market discipline to one of the country’s most sprawling enterprises, only to discover that killing off unneeded weapons systems has almost nothing to do with business decisions and everything to do with the politics of Congressional districts and campaign funds.

Mr. Obama’s bet was that by appointing a Republican, he will better his chances of overcoming those obstacles. What he discovered even before announcing Mr. Hagel’s appointment is that the former senator burned many bridges with his Republican colleagues, in part with his outspoken opposition to the war, despite voting in 2002 to authorize military action, and to the 2008 surge when President was still in office.

“If the president thinks Chuck Hagel can get him the Republican votes to downsize the Pentagon,” said one former senior aide to Mr. Bush, who declined to speak on the record, “I think he is in for a very rude surprise.”

Then there is Iran, which will be a test for all three men, for different reasons. Mr. Hagel has been particularly vocal about the dangers of a military confrontation with Tehran. While both Mr. Gates and his successor, , expressed similar concerns at various points in the first term, Mr. Hagel’s view is considerably to the left of Mr. Obama’s. The president has, gradually, endorsed “coercive diplomacy,” telling the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in March, “As I’ve made clear time and again during the course of my presidency, I will not hesitate to use force when it is necessary to defend the and its interests.”

But Mr. Hagel has opposed unilateral sanctions and suggested that threatening Iran just closes down opportunities for dialogue.

“The key to coercive diplomacy is that the side you are trying to influence is convinced you are willing to follow through on the threat,” said Mr. Ross, who drafted some of those threats. “The president has been clear, but from others there have been mixed messages.”

Mr. Kerry has another challenge: how deeply to wade directly into diplomacy with Iran, if talks begin. Mrs. Clinton almost always let others handle it. One of his allies in the Senate, alluding to the possibility of military conflict, said, “My guess is that you are going to see John Kerry dive in himself, because he knows what the alternative will be.”

Mr. Brennan faces his own Iran challenge: he would inherit the C.I.A.’s project, which he partly oversaw at the White House, to subvert Iran’s nuclear program. The core of that effort was “Olympic Games,” the complex introduction of a cyberweapon into the enrichment plant at Natanz, where Iran made most of its nuclear fuel. But the focus for Mr. Brennan would be the deep underground site at Qum, where Iran is producing the fuel that is closest to bomb grade. And, much as he began to give speeches justifying how America uses drones, he would face growing pressure to explain how the United States uses offensive cyberweapons — weapons it has never acknowledged possessing.

But the hardest test of the light footprint strategy may come in Syria. It is where the specter of the Iraq war, and Vietnam before it, most haunts the discussion. While Mr. Obama made a passionate case on humanitarian grounds in 2011 for the American intervention in — done from the air, and with drones — there is no serious consideration of doing the same in Syria, where the estimates that 60,000 have died.

Mr. Kerry, Mr. Brennan and Mr. Biden are all of a view that the United States has no way to get into Syria and, if it got in, no way to get out.

“But the president has also said that Assad must go,” Mr. Mandelbaum noted, referring to Syria’s leader, . “And we’ve worried about whether, if he does go, we get another Afghanistan-under-the- . The dilemma here is that you have no hope of controlling events unless you invest in boots on the ground, and that’s what the president has made clear we’re not going to do.”

That problem, like slowing the Iranian nuclear program or taking out ’s cells in , may fall into the lap of Mr. Brennan at the C.I.A. Because for all the talk of demilitarizing the intelligence agency — reducing its role in conducting strikes, and going back to stealing secrets and analyzing intelligence — at the end of the day Mr. Obama’s favorite way to use force is quickly, secretly and briefly.
150 2013-01-09 American officials have not offered any technical evidence to back up their claims, but computer security experts say the recent attacks showed a level of sophistication far beyond that of amateur hackers. Also, the hackers chose to pursue disruption, not money: another earmark of state-sponsored attacks, the experts said.

“The scale, the scope and the effectiveness of these attacks have been unprecedented,” said Carl Herberger, vice president of security solutions at Radware, a security firm that has been investigating the attacks on behalf of banks and cloud service providers. “There have never been this many financial institutions under this much duress.”

Since September, intruders have caused major disruptions to the online banking sites of , , , , PNC, , Fifth Third Bank, and .

They employed DDoS attacks, or distributed denial of service attacks, named because hackers deny customers service by directing large volumes of traffic to a site until it collapses. No bank accounts were breached and no customers’ money was taken.

By using data centers, the attackers are simply keeping up with the times. Companies and consumers are increasingly conducting their business over large-scale “clouds” of hundreds, even thousands, of networked computer servers.

These clouds are run by and , but also by many smaller players who commonly rent them to other companies. It appears the hackers remotely hijacked some of these clouds and used the computing power to take down American banking sites.

“There’s a sense now that attackers are crafting their own private clouds,” either by creating networks of individual machines or by stealing resources wholesale from poorly maintained corporate clouds, said John Kindervag, an analyst at .

How, exactly, attackers are hijacking data centers is still a mystery. Making matters more complex, they have simultaneously introduced another weapon: encrypted DDoS attacks.

Banks encrypt customers’ online transactions for security, but the encryption process consumes system resources. By flooding banking sites with encryption requests, attackers can further slow or cripple sites with fewer requests.

A hacker group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters has claimed in online posts that it was responsible for the attacks.

The group said it attacked the banks in retaliation for an anti-Islam video that mocked the Prophet Muhammad, and pledged to continue its campaign until the video was scrubbed from the Internet. It called the campaign Operation Ababil, a reference to a story in the Koran in which Allah sends swallows to defeat an army of elephants dispatched by the king of to attack Mecca in A.D. 571.

But American intelligence officials say the group is actually a cover for Iran. They claim Iran is waging the attacks in retaliation for Western economic sanctions and for a series of cyberattacks on its own systems. In the last three years, three sophisticated computer viruses — called , Duqu and — have hit computers in Iran. reported last year that the United States, together with , was responsible for Stuxnet, the virus used to destroy centrifuges in an Iranian nuclear facility in 2010.

“It’s a bit of a grudge match,” said Mr. Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

Researchers at Radware who investigated the attacks for several banks found that the traffic was coming from data centers around the world. They discovered that various cloud services and public Web hosting services had been infected with a particularly sophisticated form of malware, called Itsoknoproblembro, that was designed to evade detection by antivirus programs. The malware has existed for years, but the banking attacks were the first time it used data centers to attack external victims.

Botnets, or networks of individual infected slave computers, can typically be traced back to a command and control center, but security experts say Itsoknoproblembro was engineered to make it very difficult to tie it to one party. Security researchers have come up with a new name for servers infected with Itsoknoproblembro: they call them “bRobots.”

In an amateur botnet, the command and control center can be easily identified, but Mr. Herberger said it had been nearly impossible to do so in this case, suggesting to him that “the campaign may be state-sponsored versus amateur malware.”

Attackers used the infected servers to fire traffic simultaneously at each banking site until it slowed or collapsed.

By infecting data centers instead of computers, the hackers obtained the computing power to mount enormous denial of service attacks. One of the banks had 40 gigabits of Internet capacity, Mr. Herberger said, a huge amount when you consider that a midsize business may only have one gigabit. But some banks were hit with a sustained flood of traffic that peaked at 70 gigabits.

Mr. Herberger declined to say which cloud service providers had been compromised, citing nondisclosure agreements with Radware’s clients, but he said that each new bank attack provided evidence that more data centers had been infected and exploited.

The attackers said last week that they had no intention of halting their campaign. “Officials of American banks must expect our massive attacks,” they wrote. “From now on, none of the U.S. banks will be safe.”
151 2013-01-09 For a mother who devotes all her time to her disabled son, a financial burden is lifted....
152 2013-01-09 To that end, American military officers in Kabul and at the Pentagon have been developing plans for a commando force that could carry out raids against terrorist groups. Such a force would also need logistical support and arrangements for rapid medical evacuation, as well as helicopters that could whisk them to the battlefield and warplanes that could carry out airstrikes if they needed additional firepower.

Another objective, Mr. Rhodes said, would be to “ensure that Afghan national security forces are trained and equipped.”

According to a recent Pentagon report, only one of the Afghan National Army’s 23 brigades is capable of operating without support from the United States and other NATO nations.

To help the Afghan military become more self-sufficient, the United States and its NATO allies have been discussing plans to advise Afghan troops after 2014. Gen. John R. Allen, the American commander in Kabul, initially outlined a series of options that ranged from 6,000 to 20,000 troops to carry out such missions.

After the White House pressed for lower troop options, the Pentagon offered three plans that would leave 3,000, 6,000 and 9,000. Given the demanding nature of the mission in Afghanistan, the Pentagon officials have indicated the upper end of that limit is more realistic.

Douglas E. Lute, the senior White House aide on Afghanistan, suggested that the requirement for troops could be low if the United States made progress against Al Qaeda over the next two years and the Afghan military improved.

“The ranges are completely derivative from different assumptions about the variables,” Mr. Lute said. “And that process with John Allen continues even as recently as today.”

Anthony H. Cordesman, a prominent military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in a recent report that the administration had disclosed so little about its plans for a military or civilian transition in Afghanistan that the debate over troop numbers was not meaningful.

“This lack of public and transparent plans and reporting makes it impossible to determine whether there is a real transition plan or a disguised exit strategy,” he wrote.

Mr. Karzai will meet Mr. Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the White House on Friday. On Thursday, he will confer at the Pentagon with Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta. He is also scheduled to speak at Georgetown University on Afghanistan’s future.
153 2013-01-09 It also has the backing of prominent venture capital firms including Shasta Ventures, SV Angel and IA Ventures and has raised more than $13 million. Simple has few, if any, direct competitors, although some services like SmartyPig and Mint offer analysis of bank accounts and financial transactions.

Simple is actually not a bank. It has deals with CBW Bank and Bancorp, federally insured banks, to hold its customers’ money.

And it has built slick apps for the Web and mobile devices to give customers an overview of their accounts and transactions. But it encourages customers to treat it as a bank, closing their more traditional accounts and only using Simple.

The company’s biggest challenge, banking analysts say, will be to persuade people to give it a try.

“It is extremely difficult to get consumers to change and leave their banks,” said Jacob Jegher, an analyst at Celent, a research and consulting firm. “Plus, although they are not a bank, they still operate like a financial institution, and they will face challenges that big banks have decades of experience with.”

After the financial crisis, smaller community banks and credit unions gained customers eager for alternatives to larger corporate banks. Experts say Simple could attract those customers as well.

Early adopters are warming to the service; during a speech last fall at a conference aimed at technology enthusiasts, designers and creative people, Mr. Reich asked how many in attendance were Simple customers. A majority of the crowd raised hands.

Mr. Reich said Simple was keeping its first group of customers small to allow it to work out any kinks. (Already there have been some flaws, like one that briefly locked several users out of their accounts in November.) At this stage, those who want a Simple account have to request an invitation on its site, though these are handed out fairly liberally to those who meet the minimal qualifications of Simple and its bank partners.

Customers receive a plain white card that can be used like a debit card. The company offers most traditional banking features, like direct deposit and money transfers. But there is plenty it does not offer, like joint or business checking accounts, or paper checkbooks, which may be a deal killer for some.

The start-up does not have physical bank branches or automated teller machines, nor does it plan to build any. As a result, Simple customers cannot make cash deposits and must rely on the Internet and phone for service.

Simple tries to make up for what it does not have with modern software design and data analysis.

Each Simple transaction is tagged with detailed information that allows customers to search their accounts with plain English commands like “Show me how much I spent on meals over $30 last month,” or “Show me how much money I spent on gifts in December.”

Customers can see transactions plotted on a map or search for all transactions in a particular state or country, something that would be difficult with a traditional bank account.

“Banks throw out a lot of data,” Mr. Reich said. “There are 80 fields of data per transaction, and banks only show you a few: the dollar amount, the place and the date. We can use much more than that to let people have real-time financial data.” The general approach is intended to appeal to technically adept people who are tuned into the rising interest in analyzing one’s personal data and behavior, as captured by tracking tools like Nike Plus and Jawbone’s Up bracelet.

In the same way that such tools can help people learn more about their physical activity and how many hours a night they sleep, Simple hopes to offer insights into spending behavior.

Simple will have to expand to survive. It makes money by earning interest on the cash it carries and from interchange fees, which it gets from each swipe of the card. It will require a large enough base of deposits and customers to cover its costs.

And there is always the risk that Simple’s greatest advantage — its data tools — could be copied by competitors, Mr. Jegher, the Celent analyst, said: “Can they get to critical mass before banks catch up with their own digital tools to offer a competing experience?”

Some of Simple’s early users are big fans, like Chris Lanphear, 30, a Web developer in Fort Collins, Colo., who signed up in July.

Mr. Lanphear said he had been hesitant to try Simple at first because of the company’s lack of physical infrastructure, “but then I realized it doesn’t ensure better service if you see the face of the person you are talking to.”

He said he had been impressed with Simple’s quick responses, via phone and e-mail, to questions about transactions and charges. The tracking features helped him realize he was spending too much on dining out, so he decided to cut back.

Mr. Lanphear was impressed enough to move over to Simple and close his old bank account. “I figured it couldn’t be worse than the alternatives,” he said. “But it’s actually turning out to be much better.”
154 2013-01-09 Italy is sending a specialized team to Venezuela to help search for a small plane that disappeared last week off a string of Caribbean islands while carrying four Italian tourists, including Vittorio Missoni, the C.E.O. of the Italian fashion firm that bears his family’s name. Italian officials said that the team — including a naval expert, two fire department search-and-rescue experts and a member of Italy’s national flight safety agency — would leave Wednesday. They also said Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi had praised Venezuela’s “massive effort” in the search operations since the plane disappeared after leaving the resort islands of Los Roques for Caracas on Friday.
155 2013-01-09 At one point during the memorial service for David S. Ware, at St. Peter’s Church in Midtown Manhattan on Monday night, a slide show provided a visual record of his commanding presence. It opened with a black-and-white snapshot from when he was 5, sometime in 1955, and ran chronologically up to his final performances, in 2011. Most images showed him with a saxophone, either at the ready or held aloft, in midcry. In almost all of them he looked intensely self-possessed, exuding gravity even in repose.

With Mr. Ware, who died of an aggressive blood infection on Oct. 18 at the age of 62, there was sound and there was spirit: both inviolable, each inextricable from the other. A musician of great physical force and deep, ruminative intention, he was a larger-than-life hero in avant-garde jazz, a living lodestar.

The memorial — organized by his manager and producer, Steven Joerg, and his widow, Setsuko S. Ware — was a bittersweet confirmation of his legacy, in words and images but especially in music. Inevitably, it felt like a satellite distillation of the Vision Festival, an annual gathering built around the aesthetic that Mr. Ware championed and the artistic circle (and core audience) that he helped galvanize.

Free improvisation, strenuous and illuminated, plays a crucial role in that aesthetic, and so it did here. What immediately followed the slide show was a duet consisting of the drummer Muhammad Ali, who played with Mr. Ware in recent years, and the alto saxophonist Darius Jones, who studied his example. They began prayerfully and built to a superheated trance, Mr. Jones rushing columns of air through his horn.

Another spontaneous invention featured Daniel Carter on alto saxophone and piano; Joe Morris on bass; and Andrew Cyrille, a former employer of Mr. Ware’s, on drums. They aligned themselves as a triangle, tilting in toward one another, as if to uphold the act of listening as an athletic feat. Mr. Cyrille kicked up a cyclonic stir with his cymbals and drums, while the others ranged widely and feverishly. The homestretch of their 10-minute set landed on a simple rhythmic displacement, and they attacked it with relish.

The evening also had its quieter and more consonant offerings, including a ballad by Mr. Morris, which he played on guitar, joined by the drummer Warren Smith; and a delicately spun, West African-inflected solo performance by Cooper-Moore, on a homemade harp. William Parker conducted a 12-piece string section, along with the alto saxophonist Rob Brown and the pianist Eri Yamamoto, in “Invocation,” which led into “Prayer.” Fay Victor, singing that song’s supplication — “Holy spirit/Ascend in me” — adopted a firm, unbending tone, as Mr. Parker punctuated the sentiment with a concert bass drum.
156 2013-01-09 Both of this week’s incidents affected planes operated by Japan Airlines at Logan International Airport in Boston.

The fuel leak on Tuesday was spotted by another pilot as JAL Flight 007, bound for Tokyo, was taxiing and getting ready to take off, said Richard Walsh, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Port Authority. The plane was towed back to its gate and the 40-gallon leak cleaned up.

The flight with 178 passengers and 11 crew members, scheduled to take off at noon, eventually left Boston at 3:47 p.m.

On Monday, an electrical fire on a 787 was traced to a battery connected to the plane’s auxiliary power unit, which runs electrical systems when the plane is not getting power from its engines.

The fire broke out about 30 minutes after the flight landed from Tokyo, and all 183 passengers and crew members had left. The smoke was first detected in the cabin by maintenance and cleaning personnel who were on the parked plane and contacted the airport’s fire department.

The National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating Monday’s incident, said the battery had “severe fire damage.”

New planes often experience problems, particularly in the first few years of production. But the succession of issues with the 787, which has already been marred by production delays of years, has revived concerns about the plane’s reliability and safety.

Last month, the Federal Aviation Administration ordered inspections of fuel line connectors on all 787s, warning of a risk of leaks and fires. Separately, a United Airlines 787 was also diverted in December after one of six electrical generators failed in flight.

In a statement, Boeing said on Tuesday that it saw no relationship between Monday’s battery problem and previous incidents with the 787’s power system, which involved faults in power panels elsewhere in the electrical equipment bay.

“Boeing is cooperating with the N.T.S.B. in the investigation of this incident,” the company said. “Before providing more detail, we will give our technical teams the time they need to do a thorough job and ensure we are dealing with facts, not speculation.”

A Boeing spokesman, Marc Birtel, said the plane maker was aware of the fuel leak incident but declined to comment.

A spokeswoman for Japan Airlines in Tokyo said the company was still gathering the details surrounding the two incidents, and that there were no plans to change its orders for 787s. The airline has seven 787s already in service, and 38 more on order. The spokeswoman declined to be named, citing company policy.

United Airlines, currently the only airline in the United States operating 787s, said it had performed inspections on all six of its 787s after Monday’s incident. It did not cancel any of its flights today, said Mary Ryan, a spokeswoman for the airline. She said United “continues to work closely with Boeing on the reliability of our 787s.”

But she declined to comment on a report in The Wall Street Journal that said the airline had found improperly installed wiring in components associated with the auxiliary power unit.
157 2013-01-09 To Mr. Obama, the lessons Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel took from combat were crucial in his decision to name them.

“Chuck knows that war is not an abstraction,” the president said on Monday as he announced his selection of Mr. Hagel. “He understands that sending young Americans to fight and bleed in the dirt and mud, that’s something we only do when it’s absolutely necessary.”

In announcing his nomination of Mr. Kerry last month, Mr. Obama said that “having served with valor in Vietnam, he understands that we have a responsibility to use American power wisely, especially our military power.”

If confirmed, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel would be among the very few Vietnam veterans to reach the top of the national security hierarchy. (Colin L. Powell, a former secretary of state and national security adviser, served two tours in Vietnam.) Mr. Hagel would be the first person who was an enlisted soldier to run the Pentagon, which Mr. Obama called “historic.”

The views of Mr. Hagel and Mr. Kerry make them highly compatible with a White House that is almost certain to push for a more rapid withdrawal of the remaining 66,000 American troops in Afghanistan than the military command would like. “The reason we are losing Afghanistan is that it wasn’t ours to win or lose,” Mr. Hagel told Vietnam magazine. “After 10 years in Afghanistan, what are we going to have when we get out? What have we done here?”

Like Mr. Kerry, Mr. Hagel voted for the resolution authorizing the invasion of Iraq but became an early opponent of the Bush administration’s execution of the war.

Friends say it is fitting that Mr. Hagel, who was awarded two Purple Hearts, is in line to run the Pentagon, while Mr. Kerry, who was awarded a Silver Star, a Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts, is headed for the State Department. “They sort of ended up where you’d think they’d end up,” said Jan C. Scruggs, the founder and president of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund, who knows both men.

In 1971 testimony at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearings on Vietnam, Mr. Kerry heatedly told of American servicemen who “raped, cut off ears, cut off heads” and committed many other atrocities. He later said he regretted some of his language that day, and it came to haunt him as the Democratic nominee for president in 2004 when a group of Swift boat veterans, still outraged by his remarks, tried to undercut his military record.

“Kerry turned against the military as an institution in a way that Hagel never did,” said Christopher Gelpi, a professor at Duke University who has studied the attitudes of military leaders on how and when wars should be fought. “My view is that the whole Swift boating thing was unfair, but it reflected a level of animosity between him and the military that was left over.”

Mr. Hagel, Dr. Gelpi said, has been more typical of veterans who became disillusioned with the war because of the decisions made by political leaders.

Mr. Hagel, now 66, arrived in Vietnam as an Army infantryman in December 1967 and was soon serving near the Cambodian border in the same infantry squad as his younger brother Tom. In March 1968, the squad hit a tripwire in the jungle that set off a huge mine, sending body parts flying and shrapnel into Chuck Hagel’s chest. Tom Hagel stanched the bleeding and bandaged his brother, a favor Chuck returned in April, when the brothers’ troop carrier, with Tom in the turret, hit another mine.

Mr. Hagel worked frantically to pull his unconscious brother from the wreckage, knowing that the carrier might soon explode. Both brothers’ eardrums were blown out, Mr. Hagel’s face was badly burned, and the two were taken by medevac to a field hospital.

Over the decades, Mr. Hagel’s support for the war began to fade, but what changed him most, he has said, was hearing taped telephone calls, made public in the 1990s, of President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 confiding that he saw the war as pointless. “The dishonesty of it was astounding — criminal, really,” Mr. Hagel said in 2007. Ultimately, Vietnam powerfully influenced his opinions about war.

“I’m not a pacifist — I believe in using force, but only after following a very careful decision-making process,” Mr. Hagel told Vietnam magazine. “The night Tom and I were medevaced out of that village in April 1968, I told myself: If I ever get out of this and I’m ever in a position to influence policy, I will do everything I can to avoid needless, senseless war.”

Mr. Kerry, now 69, arrived in Vietnam as a Navy lieutenant in November 1968 and was soon commanding a Swift boat, a 50-foot aluminum patrol craft. The boats chugged up the rivers of the Mekong Delta in aggressive nighttime incursions to destroy Vietcong outposts and disrupt supply lines.

A few months later, in an engagement for which he won the Silver Star, Mr. Kerry beached his boat in a firefight, chased a teenage Vietcong fighter who had aimed a rocket launcher at the crew and “shot him while he fled,” according to the official after-action report. In a 2004 interview about his conduct in combat, Mr. Kerry said, “Anybody who tells you they’re not scared in combat is not telling you the truth.”

Two weeks after the firefight, Mr. Kerry rescued an Army Special Forces lieutenant who had been thrown out of a nearby boat. For that he was awarded the Bronze Star.

“You don’t want a bunch of people whose only understanding of war is from some issue paper,” Mr. Cleland said. “John and Chuck have the same jaundiced view of jumping into war when we don’t need to be there.”
158 2013-01-09 WITHOUT a single filibuster or even a cross word, the bipartisan Congressional committee responsible for the lunch after the presidential inaugural on Jan. 21 has agreed on a menu featuring sustainable, artisanal and local ingredients. And many are from New York State.

At a tasting last week, Charles E. Schumer, New York’s senior senator, was relishing his role as chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies and promoter in chief of his state’s agriculture. The menu features New York products including apples, cheeses, honey, maple syrup and red and white wines.

“I was hopeful of having Long Island duck, but unfortunately the tasters and I said the dish doesn’t quite work — where the bison was wow,” Mr. Schumer said, hastening to add that “the duck was not at fault,” but rather the preparation.

At 10:30 in the morning, the senator was sampling and praising the Tierce 2009 Finger Lakes Dry Riesling, to be served with the first course of lobster with clam chowder sauce, as well as the award-winning Bedell Cellars 2009 merlot from Long Island that will be served with bison. By 10:45, he declared that the lobster would be his lunch, with a few bites of the bison, a few sips of the Bedell and a sampling of dessert, a pie made with Hudson Valley apples.
159 2013-01-09 Much of the criticism in the ruling is directed at the training the Police Department provides officers, which Judge Scheindlin suggested sidesteps the Fourth Amendment.

The evidence in this case, she found, “strengthens the conclusion that the N.Y.P.D.’s inaccurate training has taught officers the following lesson: Stop and question first, develop reasonable suspicion later.”

Christopher T. Dunn, a lawyer for the , one of the groups representing the plaintiffs, said, “If New York City has any sense, it will use this ruling as an opportunity to start a wholesale reform of stop and frisk.”

In the decision released on Tuesday, the judge ordered the police “to cease performing trespass stops” outside the private buildings in the program unless officers have reasonable suspicion, a legal standard that requires officers to be acting on more than just a hunch.

The fact that a person was merely seen entering or leaving a building was not enough to permit the police to stop someone, “even if the building is located in a high-crime area, and regardless of the time of day,” the judge ruled. Nor was it enough for an officer to conduct a stop simply because the officer had observed the person move furtively, Judge Scheindlin said. (The forms that the police fill out after each street stop offer “furtive” movements as a basis for the stop.)

The police commissioner, , criticized the ruling, contending that the program, also known as Clean Halls, gave residents of the Bronx buildings “a modicum of safety for less prosperous tenants. Their landlords explicitly requested this extra level of protection.”

“Today’s decision unnecessarily interferes with the department’s efforts to use all of the crime-fighting tools necessary to keep Clean Halls buildings safe and secure,” he added.

Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, said the program led to several recent arrests for illegal guns. On Dec. 16, the police arrested a man with a handgun on the rooftop of a residential building in the Bronx.

On Nov. 21, officers recovered a handgun after observing the gun’s butt protruding from a man’s jacket pocket as they patrolled a fourth-floor hallway in a building on East 220th Street.

Judge Scheindlin called for a hearing to discuss possible remedies to the issues she raised. At that hearing, she said, she will consider requiring the Police Department to create a formal written policy “specifying the limited circumstances in which it is legally permissible to stop a person outside a TAP building on a suspicion of trespass,” revise the training of officers and alter some of the training literature and videos used to teach officers how to conduct lawful stops.

The ruling followed a seven-day hearing in October during which nine black and Latino residents testified about being stopped while leaving their homes or visiting friends and relatives as guests. With testimony by plaintiffs and police witnesses, it was the first hearing of its type in any of the three stop-and-frisk cases before Judge Scheindlin, and the testimony evidently shaped her conclusions.

“Because any member of the public could conceivably find herself outside a TAP building in the Bronx, the public at large has a liberty and dignity interest in bringing an end to the practice of unconstitutional stops at issue in this case,” the judge wrote.

“For those of us who do not fear being stopped as we approach or leave our own homes or those of our friends and families, it is difficult to believe that residents of one of our boroughs live under such a threat. In light of the evidence presented at the hearing, however, I am compelled to conclude that this is the case.” The judge said she considered the plaintiffs credible partly because of “the striking similarities” in their experiences being stopped.

As a person exits a building, the ruling said, “the police suddenly materialize, stop the person, demand identification, and question the person about where he or she is coming from and what he or she is doing.”

The decision continued: “Attempts at explanation are met with hostility; especially if the person is a young black man, he is frisked, which often involves an invasive search of his pockets; in some cases the officers then detain the person in a police van.”

Judge Scheindlin also expressed concern over a department training video that she said incorrectly characterized what constituted an actual police stop. In the video, a uniformed narrator states “Usually just verbal commands such as ‘Stop! Police!’ will not constitute a seizure.”

The narrator explains that the encounter usually qualifies as an actual stop only if the officer takes further steps such as physically subduing a suspect, pointing a gun at him, or blocking his path. “This misstates the law,” Judge Scheindlin said of the video, which has been shown to most of the patrol force.
160 2013-01-09 Rescue workers in New Jersey on Tuesday recovered the body of one of two missing teenagers who apparently fell into a partly frozen lake on Monday night.

The body of the boy was found in the afternoon by divers and other rescue workers using a swamp-type airboat to comb Budd Lake in Mount Olive, about 50 miles west of New York City.

“State Police are continuing efforts to locate the second boy,” Fredric M. Knapp, the acting Morris County prosecutor, said during a news conference near a church across the street from the lake.

The names and ages of the boys were not released by officials. The mother of the boy whose body was not found, Laurie Crane, 41, said in a brief interview that she had never known her son, whose name she did not provide, to go out onto the ice on the lake. “I would not go out on that,” Ms. Crane said.

Searchers called off the search for the second boy as daylight faded, and officials said the search would resume on Wednesday. The father of the boy who was still missing declined to answer questions late Tuesday afternoon as he spoke with other people near the lake.
161 2013-01-09 A judge found that stop-and-frisk tactics used by the New York City Police Department outside private buildings in the Bronx were unconstitutional.
162 2013-01-09 “But to make room for the investments we need to foster growth, we have to cut what we cannot afford. We have to reduce the burden placed on our economy by years of deficits and debt. We cannot win the future, expand the economy and spur job creation if we are saddled with increasingly growing deficits. We must take care to avoid indiscriminate cuts in areas critical to long-term growth like education, innovation and infrastructure — cuts that would stifle the economy just as it begins to recover. That, in turn, would deprive us of one of the most powerful drivers of deficit reduction, a growing economy."  Op-Ed in The New York Times

“I think that what happened this past summer was a very, very bad thing in terms of the kind of gridlock and kind of dysfunction that the world saw when it looked at government. We need to do better than that. We are now in a place where there is not that threat of immediate default, so one can say that the action forcing event is perhaps less clear, but it's an opportunity for us to work together and show that we can get beyond what that bickering that everyone saw and try to get something important done for the American economy and for our budget.”  Interview With CNN's John King, Sept. 19, 2011

“I don't know any serious policymakers on either side of the aisle who think sequestration is a good place to go. It was designed to be something that would have bad consequences wherever you look because it is not a serious set of policies; it's an across-the-board cut. It would lead to cuts in domestic programs, it would lead to cuts in defense, it would lead to cuts in Medicare that are not based on specific policy decisions, but just taking a slice off of everything.”  White House Press Briefing, Sept. 19, 2011

“I think one has to start the discussion about Social Security and understanding that it's not the driver of the deficit we're facing today, but it is a very important problem, and it's an important problem because we have an obligation to make sure that Social Security is on sound financial footing for the next 75 years, not just for the next five or 10 years.



 No, I'll tell you, in Social Security, I can tell you from having worked on this issue for 30 years and having been one of the principal people involved in 1983, advising the speaker of the House when he negotiated with a Republican president, a Democratic speaker, Tip O'Neill, negotiating with Ronald Reagan, that got resolved not because either party put something on the table, but because both parties came to the table and worked together through -- in that case, intermediary of a commission.



 There are lots of ways to work together. I've never seen a constructive Social Security debate that started with one side digging in, in one place and another side digging into another. The president has tried to structure a debate, which will actually give us the ability to make progress. And we should do it right away. We shouldn't wait.”  Interview With CNN's John King, April 13, 2011

“There’s no doubt that [under the Republican plan] by telling retirees we’re going to give you cash value as opposed to a defined benefit plan and then you’re at risk for paying the difference in order to have a health insurance plan, you get savings. We’ve laid out a plan in the Affordable Care Act [the 2010 health reform bill] that for the first time in a generation truly will bend the cost curve. If we don’t get our hands around that, and we say the only solution is to shift the burden to those who are least able to pay the bills, then we’re really throwing up our hands. ... It’s going to be true that anything that reduces the federal deficit will have somebody unhappy. There’s not a lot in the federal budget where if we took it away people wouldn’t notice. Everyone wants to be against government and wants less spending, but as soon as you start making the changes, there’s really a choice of where do you make the cuts and who’s going to pay – and if we have to choose between paying a fair price for pharmaceuticals or leaving elderly people at the risk of their own fortune or misfortune, we don’t think that’s a hard choice.”  FT Interview, April 15, 2011

“You know, David, I think that there's pretty broad agreement that the time for austerity is not today. We need to be on a path where over the next several years we bring our deficit under control. Right now we have a recovery that's taking root and if we were to put in austerity measures right now, it would take the economy in the wrong way. So The New York Times, for example, has very much argued that 2012, 2013 is not the time for austerity. The challenge is how do you do two things at the same time. How do you put money forward for things like the payroll tax holiday, for things like getting a jump-start on infrastructure, for building schools, and make the decisions for long-term deficit reduction. The president's proposed a plan that would do that. He was willing over the course of last year to negotiate a bipartisan agreement that would do it."  "Meet the Press," Feb. 12, 2012

“The president in December made a very forceful case that the tax cuts being extended for the very wealthy was not necessary as part of our economic recovery. The president only did it because it was short term, he only did it because it was conneccted to this larger piece of legislation which he thought was critical for the health of the American economy, and he was very clear yesterday that he’s not going to do it again."  Interview With the Financial Times, April 15, 2011

“I think that the policy to get out of Iraq, to reduce or eliminate our military presence was very real. I think that if we don't lower the caps that permit that spending, there will be a natural process of seeing military spending grow. We have $450 billion in savings in the Defense Department over -- and the security area over this 10-year period. Closing down this back door is part of making sure we got those savings. It's very real. I guarantee you that if we don't take the action that's been proposed, there will be leakage, and that money will end up being spent. If there's going to be discipline in the budget, you have to lower the amount of money that could be appropriated in that area."  Interview on "Fox Sunday With Chris Wallace", Feb. 12, 2012

“My sense is, as someone who has generally been familiar with these trends, is that the problems in the financial industry preceded deregulation, there was an increasing emphasis on highly abstract leverage derivative products that got us to the point that in the period of time leading up to the financial crisis, risks were taken, they weren’t fully embraced, they weren’t well understood. I don’t personally know the extent to which deregulation drove it, but I don’t believe that deregulation was the approximate cause. I would defer to others who are more expert about the industry to try to parse it better than that.”  Senate Confirmation Hearing, Director of O.M.B., Sept. 16, 2010

“I think we're actually making good progress towards reaching the goal. We've obviously made clear that we have concerns that there be both a fair balance of -- of monetary policies and a fair treatment of intellectual property rights. We've made some progress on the intellectual property rights in -- in discussions this year. It's an issue that I think is going to be ongoing. It's not something that we're going to be able to check the box and say, "It's resolved." If you look at -- at the -- the balances of trade, we are selling, actually, a good deal of services in China -- raw materials in China. And I think that -- that it's very important that globally we stay focus on the -- on achieving the goal and it's something that we are very much focused on as we put our resources to work in terms of trade promotion activities and the things that we can directly control that ease the -- the trading relationships.”  Council on Foreign Relations Holds a Discussion on "Addressing the U.S. Deficit Problem,” Nov. 10, 2011

“At a time when there is a recovery from the deepest economic downturn since the Great Depression, when there are very substantial challenges in Europe that all of us in this room and all of us in Washington follow on a day-to-day basis, there is an extra urgency for Washington to show that we can take the things that we can control and that we can do it in a way that meets a standard of performance that the public expects.”  Council on Foreign Relations Holds a Discussion on "Addressing the U.S. Deficit Problem,” Nov. 10, 2011
163 2013-01-10 More than 800 recruits sat waiting to be sworn in, and those who fidgeted were admonished, highlighting the importance of self-discipline in their new careers....
164 2013-01-10 Buying the rights to a name and restarting operations of a beloved brand requires years of dedication, say the owners of Chris-Craft, once the largest pleasure boat manufacturer in the United States....
165 2013-01-10 The well-known blogger says he has already sold almost half a million dollars in subscriptions....
166 2013-01-10 Even if the Surface Pro is not strictly a laptop killer, it nonetheless changes the game. It's a machine nobody's built before, and it should get a lot of imaginations whirring. For thousands of people, it will be an ideal mobile companion....
167 2013-01-10 Overfishing has reduced their numbers by a whopping 96 percent, a report warns....
168 2013-01-10 Credit: Deidre Schoo for The New York Times
169 2013-01-10 A look at the Oscar nominations in top categories....
170 2013-01-10 For 2012 as a whole, prices were 7 percent lower than in 2011....
171 2013-01-10 TimesCast: The swearing-in of Hugo Chávez is delayed. | Baseball Hall of Fame voters reject steroid-tainted candidacies.
172 2013-01-10 Herbalife executives made a presentation to analysts and its investors to respond to accusations by the investor William A. Ackman that their company operates a pyramid scheme....
173 2013-01-10 I.B.M. was granted more patents than any other company in 2012, its 20th consecutive year in the top spot. But the big movement in the rankings comes from Google and Apple....
174 2013-01-10 Hedge funds led by female managers produced a return of 8.95 percent through the third quarter of 2012, significantly outperforming the overall universe of hedge funds, a report shows....
175 2013-01-10 While the mistakes made by this business seller are easy to spot in retrospect, it's also easy to understand how sellers fall into these traps....
176 2013-01-10 Mark Kantrowitz, an expert on paying for college, has agreed to answer readers’ questions about the Free Application for Federal Student Aid....
177 2013-01-10 By following the new rules, banks will be given a “safe harbor,” which ensures that they cannot be successfully sued for reckless or abusive lending practices, federal officials said Wednesday. Lenders must document a borrower’s ability to repay a loan; one way of doing that is to follow several guidelines issued Thursday that make a loan a “qualified” mortgage.

“When consumers sit down at the closing table, they shouldn’t be set up to fail with mortgages they can’t afford,” said , the director of the consumer bureau. “Our ability-to-repay rule protects borrowers from the kinds of risky lending practices that resulted in so many families losing their homes.”

Mortgage bankers generally applauded the new regulations, saying that they clear up uncertainty that has hung over the home lending business since the financial crisis. In fact, most of the types of loans now being restricted, which were rampant during the inflation of the housing bubble, have been relatively rare in the last couple of years because many banks have tightened lending since the financial crisis.

“These rules offer protection for consumers and a clear, safe environment for banks to do business,” David Stevens, chief executive of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said in an interview. “Now everybody knows if you stay inside these lines, you are safe.”

He added that he believed the consumer bureau “did a great job listening to stakeholders” in shaping the rule.

The new rules will not necessarily lead to an immediate expansion of , Mr. Stevens said, because nearly all mortgage loans being made currently are being sold to government-sponsored enterprises like and . Their underwriting standards are not affected by the new rules.

In certain circumstances, the new lending rules can be bypassed for up to seven years, regulators said. New loans can be considered to be a “qualified loan” even if the borrower has a payment-to-income ratio of more than 43 percent as long as the loan is eligible for purchase or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, for example, or by one of several executive branch agencies, like the .

The consumer bureau said that the exception was created “in light of the fragile state of the mortgage market as a result of the recent mortgage crisis.” Without the exception, the bureau said, “creditors might be reluctant to make loans that are not qualified mortgages, even if they are responsibly underwritten.”

Similarly, the new rules allow balloon payments in mortgages that are originated by and retained in the portfolio of small lenders that operate primarily in rural or underserved areas.

The legal protections offered to lenders by the qualified mortgage rule are not absolute. Lenders do not receive complete from lawsuits in all circumstances. Some higher-priced loans, given to consumers with weak credit, can be challenged if the borrower can prove that he did not have sufficient income to pay the mortgage and other living expenses. And the rules do not affect the rights of consumers to challenge a lender for violating other federal consumer protection laws.

“We believe this rule does exactly what it is supposed to do,” Mr. Cordray said in a statement prepared for delivery Thursday morning in , where the rules are being announced. “It protects consumers and helps strengthen the housing market by rooting out reckless and unsustainable lending, while enabling safer lending,” he said.
178 2013-01-10 When President Obama takes the public oath of office on Jan. 21 - the federal holiday commemorating the birth of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. - he will use a Bible that belonged to the slain civil rights leader....
179 2013-01-10 Mr. Edmonds, however, has accused Mr. Reed of going too far in those efforts. He said Mr. Reed had removed the celebrated Art Deco furnishings from the original location, along with the familiar burgundy paneling and famed neon sign.

“We clearly have a lease that states he was supposed to leave all that stuff in there,” said Mr. Edmonds, whose 286 Lenox Avenue Realty Corporation bought the property in 1983. “The spot is special, not only to the landlord, but to the community. What he’s done is take everything to another spot, and clearly he cannot do that, and we’re going to do everything in our means to get it back.”

Mr. Edmonds said he had retained a lawyer.

Mr. Reed, who obtained a trademark of the Lenox Lounge name in 2011, said through his lawyer, Tyreta Foster, that when he bought the business there had been an asset purchase agreement, though he would not say what he had removed. He added that he looked forward to reopening the club at 333 Lenox Avenue, filling a space once occupied by a beauty salon. “There’s going to be singing in the streets,” Mr. Reed said.

The new tenant, Mr. Notar, said of the dispute: “It’s between the two of them. I don’t want to be brought in. I really hope they resolve it. I don’t want it to distract from my intention. I hope there is a happy resolution.”

Still, there remains the question of the Lenox Lounge’s identity, and whether its essence remains rooted in the original spot, where the sounds from all those jazz greats seeped into the walls. Some also wonder if the business should remain Harlem-owned, or if its ownership should reflect the area’s changing, gentrifying landscape.

Loren Schoenberg, the artistic director of the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, said that such distinctions were complicated, but that he believed the two businesses could coexist.

“Harlem has changed so dramatically in the last 10 years,” Mr. Schoenberg said. “There is certainly room for both.” At issue, he said, is the tension inherent in trying to keep something that was, something from the past, while giving the commercial market of today what it wants.

“But ultimately,” Mr. Schoenberg continued, “what determines a place is the philosophy of the owner. That’s what makes a place successful or not.”

Not even two weeks have passed since the Lenox Lounge closed. Practically overnight, the site has gone from icon to eyesore. The front door is boarded up. The dark red facade is gone, stripped away.

Still, Mr. Reed admitted that there was a certain spirit in the old space. “You can’t take that out,” he said. “That’s the unfortunate part of it. I do love that space.”
180 2013-01-10 Mr. Klein and Mr. Skelos will serve as pro tem on alternating days during January, March and June, and every two weeks the rest of the year. The deputy Republican leader, Thomas W. Libous, offered reassurance: “At no time should either one of the coalition leaders, Senator Skelos or Senator Klein, serve contemporaneously as temporary president.”

That forestalls the rip in the space/time continuum problem.

The Republicans retain the upper hand, appointing the key institutional officers. Mr. Klein’s rump faction will get some committee chairs and, one imagines, a lode of lulus, Albany speak for the legislative bonuses and handsome office suites.

Mr. Klein, already a formidable fund-raiser, stands to become a soft-money potentate. The Democratic Party and its remaining adherents fare more poorly. Fifty-eight percent of the electorate voted for Democratic State Senate candidates in the past election, but the party faces another two years in minority status, and it will receive just 29 percent of the tens of millions of dollars set aside for members’ items.

“Does much about this make sense?” asks Susan Lerner of Common Cause, and then provides the answer: “No.”

In his speech on the Senate floor, Mr. Klein sounded not so much like a man newly married to a conservative Republican. He spoke of decriminalizing marijuana, increasing the minimum wage and making it easier for immigrant children who lack legal documentation to go to college.

His putative Republican partners gave Mr. Klein a stony police lineup stare during his peroration. But you might assume that a deal — less politely the fix — is done. The Republicans face an implacable demographic problem — they are conservative and more rural than not in a state that is growing more liberal and urban and suburban every day. Gerrymandering barely protected the state senators this year.

Artful compromise could safeguard a Republican Party moving slowly into the minority. As Mr. Libous, the Republican Senate’s resident transactional realist, put it: “Hey, you can compromise anything, y’know.”

Behind much of this stands the governor. He signaled that Republican, Democrat, Republicrat, he could play with any Senate iteration that plays with him. A cynic might venture the governor gets a minimum wage, but not too much, and a Dream Act without perhaps the money to fully fund it. And he gets to say that Republicans voted for gun control, and perhaps for decriminalization of marijuana.

Senator Liz Krueger, a liberal Democrat, has waged a battle for transparent rules in the Senate for years, which is not unlike passing your life trying to conjure blood from a stone.

Just before the new coalition shoved through its rules without discussion, she asked about a secret agreement between Senators Skelos and Klein, laying out the benefits of their marriage.

Is this so?

Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican, sighed wearily. “I understand those discussions have taken place,” he said. “Sometimes they may or may not have reduced it to paper, but I don’t think it’s ever been final.”

He shrugged. And that was that.
181 2013-01-10 Two years into one of the most ambitious efforts to lure Taliban fighters off the battlefield, many Afghan and Western officials acknowledge that the results have been disappointing. Though the number of people claiming the amnesty has swelled in the past year, violence remains high in the hotbeds of the insurgency, where the program has struggled to take hold.

Of the roughly 6,100 participants so far, 80 percent come from the relatively peaceful north and west of the country, where the Taliban presence is thinnest. And even some of those fighters say their activity was more criminal than political or ideological, even though the program was designed to flip the most committed fighters.

Many onetime fighters say they were only loosely affiliated with the Taliban. Though widely thought of as a unified Islamic movement, the Taliban in reality consist of a shifting constellation of forces whose agendas sometimes line up. Many of the insurgents who have given up fighting said they were formerly of Hezb-e-Islami, a rival faction to the Taliban that has been losing power and influence in recent years.

Although some fighters have found employment, Western officials argue that the reintegration initiative was never meant to be a jobs program. It pays a modest stipend, about $100 to $200 monthly for the first three months, depending on the fighter’s rank. In theory, the former fighters can find work on development projects financed in their home villages, though many projects have failed to get off the ground.

In two years, the so-called High Peace Council has spent less than half of what officials hoped to spend in 2011 alone. Tight controls have stalled village development projects meant to employ the former insurgents in their communities. About $180 million of the $235 million the program was granted sits idle in Afghan coffers.

The officials running the program called it a work in progress that would improve over time. The importance of employment for former fighters is acknowledged as an important element of keeping them from picking up arms again.

“We’re working on ways to improve the effectiveness of the program,” said Paul Martin Mason, who oversees the reintegration program for the United Nations Development Program.

In the meantime, many former fighters are expressing second thoughts with their decisions. Having tired of endless fighting, Hazrat Mir, a former Taliban commander in Laghman, joined the government with 130 of his men last year.

With promises of jobs and land, Mr. Mir said, his men left their villages and turned in their weapons, a dangerous prospect given the threat from former comrades. The danger, it turned out, was made clear by an attack the day before their reintegration ceremony in which the Taliban killed Mr. Mir’s top deputy.

“It’s been 11 months, and the government hasn’t given us anything,” Mr. Mir complained. “We’ve spent all of our money living in the capital, where we don’t know anyone.”

The governor of Laghman Province, Fazlullah Mujadidi, extolled the virtues of the reintegration program during an interview in the pale-blue parlor of his tidy government compound. The roads are clear, and the Taliban no longer operate with impunity, he said. The reintegration effort, which has drawn in 276 former insurgents, has been a remarkable success, he said.

A bear-size man with a heavy beard, Mr. Mujadidi counted out on each finger the new development projects headed to his districts thanks to the program: a dam, a major road and wells.

Asked about Hazrat Mir and his men’s frustrations, Mr. Mujadidi grew silent.

“We can confirm those details,” he said of Mr. Mir’s account, adding that the various projects he listed are still in the application phase. “We don’t have the resources at the provincial level to support them.”

Some former Taliban commanders suspect bit players in the insurgency have been used to pad the data and make the program appear more effective than it really is.

“If we believe the figures of the High Peace Council, then the Taliban should be weakened significantly,” said Syed Muhammad Akbar Agha, a former Taliban commander, seated in his frigid living room on the outskirts of Kabul. “But they are not.”

“I doubt 2 out of every 1,500 are true Taliban fighters,” he added.

All who switch sides, though, face real threats. While the government said it did not collect data on the number of enrollees killed, the Taliban have taken steps to target as many as possible.

In Kapisa, a restive province northeast of Kabul, just seven fighters have laid down arms since the program started. That, in part, is because the Taliban fatally shot one of the early defectors, Qand Agha.

Abdul Malik, a former comrade of Mr. Agha’s, said gunmen recently tried to storm his home in the dead of night. He fought them off with his assault rifle, a weapon he was allowed to keep for self-defense after renouncing the Taliban. But a farmer found a bomb the next morning that had been left behind in a field by his house.

In addition to complaining about the lack of security, Mr. Malik said the government broke its promise to give him a job with the Afghan Local Police.

“I’ve told everyone I know not to join the government,” he said.

Abdul Momen Muslim, who as chairman of the Kapisa peace council persuaded Mr. Malik to join the government, agreed.

“I can no longer in good conscience tell people to come to the government,” he said.
182 2013-01-10 WASHINGTON — The pastor whom President Obama has chosen to deliver the benediction at his inauguration this month delivered a sermon in the 1990s in which he called on fellow Christians to fight the “aggressive agenda” of the gay rights movement and advocated “the healing power of Jesus” as “the only way out of a homosexual lifestyle.”

Think Progress, a liberal blog affiliated with the Center for American Progress Action Fund, reported Wednesday afternoon on the sermon delivered by the Rev. Louie Giglio, an Atlanta minister and founder of the Passion Conferences, a group dedicated to uniting college students in worship and prayer.

The speech, “In Search of a Standard — Christian Response to Homosexuality,” can be heard on Discipleship Library, a Christian training Web site.

In it, Mr. Giglio cites Scripture in saying that homosexuality “is sin in the eyes of God, and it is sin in the word of God.” He warned against gay rights. “That movement is not a benevolent movement,” he said. “It is a movement to seize by any means necessary the feeling and the mood of the day, to the point where the homosexual lifestyle becomes accepted as a norm in our society.”

Inaugural officials did not respond to a request for comment, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Giglio was not available.

Wayne Besen, founder of Truth Wins Out, which fights antigay sentiment, said: “It is imperative that Giglio clarify his remarks and explain whether he has evolved on gay rights, like so many other faith and political leaders. It would be a shame to select a preacher with backward views on L.G.B.T. people at a moment when the nation is rapidly moving forward on our issues.”
183 2013-01-10 To no one’s surprise, the Supreme Court, full of Chávez loyalists, ruled on the eve of the ceremony that Mr. Chávez’s inauguration could be postponed and that his team of advisers could smoothly move, in his absence, from one term to the next.

The court declined to set a time limit for the swearing in, raising the possibility that the country’s deepening uncertainty could go on for weeks or months. And it did nothing to clear up the stubborn mystery of the president’s condition.

Luisa Estella Morales, the president of the Supreme Court, said Wednesday at a news conference that there was no need at this time for a delegation to go to Cuba and report back on the condition of Mr. Chávez, 58. Asked if the swearing in could occur in Havana, she said the time and place of the ceremony had not been determined.

Ms. Morales said the Supreme Court’s ruling was meant to uphold the results of October’s presidential election.

“It’s one of the most important values that we should preserve as a constitutional court,” Ms. Morales said. “The sovereign Venezuelan people have expressed through their vote their desire to continue being governed by President Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías.”

The government has been opaque for months, acknowledging that he suffered from a relapse of cancer in the pelvic area, but not specifying the type of cancer or detailing his prognosis.

The lack of information has left Venezuela tied in knots. Mr. Chávez has loomed so large for so long — with speeches that have lasted for hours, frequent Twitter posts and his outsized singing, ranting, poetry-reciting and foe-bashing personality — that his sudden silence has created a sizable vacuum.

“We don’t have a president,” lamented Estela Martínez, 63, a nurse who has supported Mr. Chávez throughout his 14 years in office. She said she was afraid that the public was not getting the full truth about the president’s condition and that there was far more shouting than clarity from political leaders. “Someone has to take the reins of the country.”

Henrique Capriles Radonski, the opposition candidate who lost to Mr. Chávez in October, criticized the Supreme Court’s decision endorsing a delay in the inauguration. “Institutions should not respond to the interests of a government,” he said.

The State Department in Washington, which has been cautious about getting involved in the contentious political back-and-forth, said Wednesday that it would be eager to improve relations with Venezuela, which have long been strained.

Victoria Nuland, the State Department spokeswoman, confirmed that Roberta S. Jacobson, assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, had spoken in November to Vice President Nicolás Maduro about more engagement.

“Regardless of what happens politically in Venezuela, if the Venezuelan government and if the Venezuelan people want to move forward with us, we think there is a path that’s possible,” she said, according to Reuters. “It’s just going to take two to tango.”

Mr. Maduro said last Friday that Venezuela’s ambassador to the Organization of American States, Roy Chaderton Matos, had held meetings with American officials starting in November that included discussions on the criteria for “normalized” relations between their countries, but he emphasized that the two sides continued to have significant differences. He also said Mr. Chávez had approved the talks. Before he left for Cuba in December, Mr. Chávez indicated that he wanted Mr. Maduro to succeed him should he be too ill to govern. But that proclamation, designed to quell a succession battle, has done little to calm the frayed country.

Neither did Mr. Maduro’s letter on Tuesday announcing that Mr. Chávez’s doctors had recommended that he not attend the inauguration and instead continue recuperating in bed. That led some of the president’s critics to wonder why the voluble Mr. Chávez was not telling them himself.

“If the president is in full command of his faculties, why didn’t he sign the letter?” said José Gregorio Graterol, an opposition lawmaker.

And for those Venezuelans who bitterly resent the influence that the Cuban leaders Fidel and Raúl Castro have over Mr. Chávez — especially given Cuba’s dependence on Venezuelan oil shipments on preferential terms — the president’s long stay in Cuba and the constant traveling back and forth to the island of top Venezuelan officials, the letter emanating from Havana was simply too much.

“How do we know that letter isn’t from the hand of Raúl Castro and the Cuban advisers?” Mr. Graterol said.

In the constitutional fight that has ensued over whether Mr. Chávez can legally start a new term without showing up for the scheduled swearing in, both sides in Venezuela have at times seemed to stake out shifting constitutional ground as they have angled for political advantage. The opposition is arguing that the Constitution calls for the head of the National Assembly, Mr. Cabello, to become the caretaker president in Mr. Chávez’s absence.

Mr. Cabello, a staunch ally of Mr. Chávez, is normally reviled by the opposition, and its position seems designed to foment dissension among Chavistas, as Mr. Chávez’s backers are known.

The government’s most recent reports on Mr. Chávez’s health had him fighting a severe lung infection and having difficulty breathing, and it was not known if he would be able to watch television to see the thousands of supporters who will attend the rally in his name. But the show must go on, as Mr. Chávez said in a moment of adversity last year, only this time without him, although with a roster of foreign leaders on hand.

“Crisis?” asked Jorge Rodríguez, a Chávez stalwart who is the mayor of a section of Caracas, according to El Universal newspaper, dismissing the notion that anything was amiss. “Where is the crisis?”
184 2013-01-10 Young adults have long faced a rough job market, but in the last recession and its aftermath, college graduates did not lose nearly as much ground as their less-educated peers, according to a new study.

The study, published on Wednesday by the Pew Charitable Trusts, shows that among Americans age 21 to 24, the drop in employment and income was much steeper among people who lacked a college degree.

The findings come as many published articles and books have told the stories of young college graduates unable to find work, and questioned the conventional wisdom that a college education is a worthwhile investment and the key to opportunity and social mobility. The study did not take into account the cost of going to college.

“This shows that any amount of post-secondary education does improve the labor market outcomes for those recent graduates,” said Diana Elliott, the research manager for Pew’s Economic Mobility Project. “This is not necessarily to discredit those individual stories.”

In fact, the study documents a serious decline in the job picture for young people.

Using data from the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey, Pew looked at employment, either full time or part time, among 21- to 24-year-olds, in the roughly two and a half years before the 2007-2009 recession, during it, and in the two and a half years after it.
185 2013-01-10 He pointed to a case filed last month against eight former directors of Morgan Keegan mutual funds, who were charged with failing to prevent fund managers from overvaluing fund assets during the financial crisis.

Lawyers for Mr. Aesoph and Mr. Bennett did not comment on the case, but KPMG issued a statement saying, “Our partner and senior manager look forward to presenting the facts in support of the work that was performed under the circumstances at TierOne.” A KPMG spokesman said Mr. Aesoph and Mr. Bennett remained at the company.

TierOne was a savings bank that focused on its home markets in Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska until it began to look for faster growing markets and opened loan production offices in Arizona, Colorado, Florida and Nevada. Loans to developers grew in those markets, leaving the bank exposed when property values began to plummet.

In 2008, TierOne closed those offices and wrote down the value of some of its largest loans. But the S.E.C. said that in doing so, the bank had not acted rapidly enough, particularly with regard to Nevada loans.

It said the auditors should have noted numerous red flags, including the fact that the few new appraisals that were done showed management had underestimated the expected losses.

It noted that the auditors had signed off on the financial statements even after the Office of Thrift Supervision, the bank’s primary regulator, warned of serious problems.

In 2010, the bank failed and was taken over by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which estimated its losses would be $298 million, or about 10 percent of total assets. The F.D.I.C. has since revised the estimate to $212 million.

KPMG, one of the largest audit firms in the world, was not named as a defendant in the case, which may reflect the S.E.C.’s lack of possible remedies as much as it does a view of the firm’s actions.

Under the law, the S.E.C. does not have the authority to levy financial penalties on auditors who fail to do their jobs. It can only suspend or bar them from practicing before the commission, a penalty that would prevent them from having any role in accounting or auditing the books of a public company.

Taking such a step against KPMG would be tantamount to putting it out of business, something the commission would not want to do in any but the most extreme circumstances.

The commission previously filed charges against three former officials of TierOne, two of whom settled and one of whom is fighting it in federal court in Omaha.
186 2013-01-10 A pack of feral dogs may be responsible for the deaths of as many as five people in a Mexico City park, the authorities said Wednesday. Last week, the police said dogs had killed four people, including a woman and a baby boy, whose mutilated bodies were found in the park in December. Now, prosecutors are investigating if the wounds found on a fifth person, a 15-year-old girl who died in December, are consistent with dog bites. The authorities have captured several dogs, spurring an online campaign to save them, but it is not clear if any are the culprits.
187 2013-01-10 Vladimir Gongora, 17, who emigrated from El Salvador, used to think he was the only deaf person in the world. But he has since blossomed with the help of a hearing aid....
188 2013-01-10 Their collaboration began with two side-by-side spec houses. While the first was still under construction, Bob Bush, a principal of a graphic design studio, and his wife, Dianne Bush, who worked in law offices and as an event planner, bought the second while it was still a hole in the ground, entering into a curious arrangement with Mr. Sands: he agreed to sell them the house, but they would have no say in the finishes — though Mr. Sands promised to avoid any colors they didn’t like.

“So they said, ‘Blue,’ and I did what I wanted, and it had no blue and they loved it,” Mr. Sands said.

Why were the Bushes so relaxed about it?

The first spec house was a terrific calling card, Mr. Bush said.

“It was just really cool,” he said. “Rich was very upfront. He said, ‘I’m a new builder in Boulder and I want to establish my reputation. I know what I want to do. If you don’t want to give me that kind of freedom, then I wouldn’t do this.’ ”

That was the beginning of a long relationship in houses.

In 2004, about seven years into that relationship, the Bushes sold their first Hammerwell-Arch11 house and moved into a house Mr. Sands had taken in trade for one of his spec houses, and had been living in with his wife. Built in 1982, and untouched by Mr. Sands, “it was cool in its own way,” Mr. Bush said. The Bushes, who have two grown sons, were downsizing and wanted to put some money in the bank. (Their first Hammerwell-Arch11 house sold for under a million dollars, Mr. Bush recalled, and they bought Mr. Sands’s house for about $465,000.)

By 2010, the couple, who are now 68 and 65 and retired, were planning to downsize yet again. (The Bushes have built five of the six houses they’ve lived in and clearly have an appetite for renewal. As Ms. Bush said, “We are very D.I.Y.” And he teased his wife, “We move mostly because there is nothing more to decorate.”) That was when Mr. Sands approached them with a plan.

Mr. and Ms. Sands were also ready to downsize. Mr. Sands had found a 4,800-square-foot lot zoned for three units, an unusual zoning scenario in Boulder, which tends to support mostly single-family buildings. To find a lot that was not restricted, Mr. Sands said, was rare. He had been eyeing the lot for some time, watching its price drop as it changed hands. Eventually, a developer who had bought it in foreclosure agreed to turn it over to him for about $600,000.

Around the same time, Sue Heilbronner, a federal-prosecutor-turned-Internet-entrepreneur, moved to Boulder for a job as chief growth officer for PaySimple, a cloud-based platform for managing small businesses. She had fallen in love with the Hammerwell-Arch11 aesthetic, having seen their houses around town. There was one in particular, she said, “that was the most magnificent house I’d ever seen, but it was too big, and too expensive. I just decided the day I met him that I was going to find some way for Rich to touch my home.”

Ms. Heilbronner, 46, knew about Mr. Sands’s communal lot project, but he rebuffed her at first when she had asked to be a part of it. A few months later, though, he e-mailed her to say he had one slot left, and would she like it?

There were no drawings, there wasn’t even a contract, but she agreed without hesitation.

“I wrote a check solely on the strength of my feelings about him,” she said. “Everyone I knew told me I was an idiot to yoke myself to four other people I barely knew. But to me it felt not remotely unusual or crazy. I get to work with a builder I admire — who, by the way, gets to be my next-door neighbor — and an architect who is totally cutting edge. We were totally aligned in what we were going to create, so it was perfect.”

Mr. Sands doesn’t remember why he initially put Ms. Heilbronner off.

“She’s a challenging lady, quite strong and opinionated,” he said. “I could have held her off at first just to make sure she truly was interested and that she was willing to live with what I came up with design-wise. I also might have been buying time to talk with the Bushes to discuss how Sue would fit into the mix.”

THE three houses have a Case Study House feel about them, with their flat roofs, open-plan living areas and glassy expanses. Since the 9,800-square-foot lot was zoned for a 50 percent floor-area ratio, Mr. Sands and Mr. Meade had 4,900-square-feet to divvy up among the three houses. They carved out space underneath the lot to create three two-car garages and room for storage and mechanical equipment, which, since they were underground, were not included in the floor-area calculus.

Each house would be two bedrooms with two-and-a-half bathrooms. The Sandses’ unit is about 1,500 square feet and separated by a common garden from the Bushes’, which is about 1,600 square feet, and Ms. Heilbronner’s, which is slightly larger.

Instead of planting three townhouses in a row on the rectangular lot, Mr. Meade angled them to grab the Flatiron mountain views, giving each house a glass corner. The Sandses’ house is aligned with the top of the rectangle — the short bit — at the north end. The Bushes’ house and Ms. Heibronner’s sit along the base, fitting one on top of the other like train cars in a rail yard. It’s a clever and elegant land-use solution, spatially economical, practical and lovely.

Each house cost about $1 million, though Ms. Heilbronner’s was slightly more. Mr. Sands, as is his habit, did the finishes for his and the Bushes’ houses. Ms. Heilbronner asked Mr. Meade to design her interiors, and she chose features and flourishes (like a startling open staircase) that were more expensive.

The five cohabitants, as we might call them, moved in in late August. The Bushes were perhaps the most grateful for the end of construction: their house had sold 16 days after they put it on the market in the summer of 2011, and they had been living in a rental, and then in a room at a local inn for six or eight weeks.

Mr. Bush pointed out that in their last house they had downsized financially but not spatially. In this house, he said, “we’ve upsized financially but decreased square footage.”

As for Ms. Bush, she said she worried that their taste was not edgy enough for Mr. Sands, and that he was disappointed when he came over.

Mr. Sands said, jokingly, that he always tells them: “Your interiors should fit you. Pick what you like, and I’ll tell you if you’re screwing it up too much.”

And Ms. Heilbronner, who travels extensively for work, is happy to have a house that she doesn’t have to fret about (thanks to her close neighbors) and one that is also visually arresting — even autobiographical, as she put it.

“It feels,” she said, “just energetically perfect. I walk in and think, ‘Really? I get to live here?’ ”
189 2013-01-10 Despite pressing issues like a $1.2 billion budget deficit and damage from Hurricane Sandy, the aftermath of the Newtown shootings dominated the day, from the governor’s remarks to the green-and-white ribbons worn by legislators to the applause for Newtown’s first selectwoman, E. Patricia Llodra, and superintendent of schools, Janet Robinson, who sat beside Mr. Malloy’s wife, Cathy.

“It won’t surprise you that this speech is very different from the one I first envisioned giving,” Mr. Malloy said. “In the early days of December, I began thinking about what I’d like to say. Now, while it’s only been a few short weeks on the calendar, we have all walked a very long and very dark road together.”

He paid tribute to the heroism and sacrifice in Newtown and added: “But we also must ask ourselves: What is our responsibility? To those we’ve lost, to one another, to our children, and to future generations?”

In the past, despite Democratic control of both houses of the General Assembly, some gun control measures have hit roadblocks after firearms manufacturers based in the state said that jobs could be at stake. Connecticut, home to the Colt Manufacturing Company, remains the seventh-largest producer of firearms in the country, according to federal data.

Still, Democratic and Republican leaders said they expected to be able to pass new legislation.

“I think we’re going to see a lot more common ground than you would expect,” said the House minority leader, Lawrence F. Cafero Jr.

A starting point is likely to be the discrepancy in Connecticut gun laws that makes permit regulations much tougher for handguns than for long guns, including assault rifles. Other issues in consideration are likely to include limits on high-capacity magazines and expanding the current assault weapons ban to cover the semiautomatic weapon used in the Sandy Hook shooting, which had been legally bought by the mother of the gunman, Adam Lanza.

But J. Brendan Sharkey, the new speaker of the House, said it was essential to go beyond “knee-jerk” legislation that could be full of loopholes and flaws.

“The people of Connecticut expect us to move quickly, but they also expect us to move smartly,” he said.

Overshadowed by the Sandy Hook issues was a gaping budget hole that otherwise would have been the focus of the General Assembly’s opening day. Mr. Cafero said Mr. Malloy seemed to be rewriting history when he said he saw fiscal progress that Mr. Cafero said did not exist. But he, like others, said one response to the Newtown shootings should be a commitment to civility and bipartisanship in the Legislature, and he gave Mr. Malloy credit for his handling of the shootings.

“We as citizens owe him a debt of gratitude for the way he led us through Sandy Hook, and you could tell it has obviously affected him deeply,” he said. “God bless him for it.”
190 2013-01-10 Boeing defended the safety of its 787 Dreamliner airplane on Wednesday after three incidents in three days, saying it had “extreme confidence” in the innovative design and technology used in the plane.

The 787 has been in operation for 15 months, and Boeing has delivered 50 airplanes so far to eight airlines, including All Nippon Airways, Japan Airlines and United Airlines. Since then, a small number of 787s have had electrical fires, fuel leaks or other problems, prompting a safety advisory from federal regulators and a formal investigation into an electric fire this week.

The National Transportation Safety Board is trying to find out why a battery pack caught fire in the auxiliary power unit in a 787 parked at Logan International Airport in Boston on Monday. The fire occurred in a Japan Airlines plane after the passengers and crew had left the plane.

On Tuesday, another of the airline’s 787s, also in Boston, was delayed for nearly four hours after a fuel leak. And on Wednesday, All Nippon canceled a domestic flight after a computer on board erroneously showed problems with the plane’s brakes. These problems followed the forced diversion of a United Airlines 787 in December after one of its six electric generators failed in midflight.

Mike Sinnett, the 787’s chief project engineer, said on Wednesday that the program suffered from no more problems than any other new plane, like Boeing’s 777 when it was introduced in the mid-1990s.
191 2013-01-10 CENTENNIAL, Colo. — The ghostly self portraits, taken with a cellphone hours before he opened fire at an Aurora movie theater, show James E. Holmes in the final sprint of his deadly plan, prosecutors believe.

In one photo, his pupils lifeless from black contact lenses, Mr. Holmes sticks his tongue out, his dyed orange curls tumbling out of a knit cap. In another, his lips curl into a contorted grin, the muzzle end of a Glock pistol visible next to him. In a third, a large cache of weaponry and body armor is splayed neatly across a red sheet.

The photos were shown by prosecutors on Wednesday at the conclusion of a preliminary hearing held to determine whether there is enough evidence to move forward with a trial.

A former neuroscience graduate student at the University of Colorado Denver, Mr. Holmes is accused of killing 12 people and wounding more than 50 during a midnight showing of “The Dark Knight Rises” last July.

Judge William B. Sylvester of Arapahoe County District Court set a new hearing date for Friday and is expected to issue a ruling on the case by then. If he determines there is enough evidence to proceed, largely considered a formality, Mr. Holmes could be arraigned the same day.
192 2013-01-10 And while the overall American market grew 13.4 percent last year, G.M.’s sales increased just 3.7 percent. By contrast, Toyota and Honda rebounded sharply from supply disruptions caused by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and rivals like Chrysler and Volkswagen made big sales gains.

“It was a very mediocre year for G.M.,” said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst at the research firm IHS Automotive. “They are still kind of finding their way postbankruptcy.”

Mr. Akerson, 64, said he expected G.M. to make “modest” market-share improvements this year, as it refreshes its showrooms with 13 new products, including redesigned versions of its Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks.

“What you’ll see is a G.M. that is projecting some confidence and some vigor,” he said.

That description has hardly applied to G.M. since it was forced into bankruptcy in 2009 by the Obama administration as a condition for the final portions of its $49.5 billion government bailout.

The company emerged as a smaller, leaner competitor with fewer brands, employees and factories, and a revamped management team led by Mr. Akerson, a government-appointed board member who took over as chief executive in the fall of 2010.

Since its bankruptcy, G.M. has had some success introducing new cars in the United States, like the Chevrolet Cruze and the Cadillac ATS. It has also continued to grow in China.

In addition, the company has reduced its pension overhang by buying out some salaried workers and transferring its long-term obligations to the rest of the white-collar work force to an outside insurance firm.

G.M. also received good news last month when the Treasury Department agreed to sell 200 million of the G.M. shares owned by taxpayers back to the company and pledged to sell its remaining 300 million shares by early 2014.

“I think it’s important for that chapter to close on that part of our history,” Mr. Akerson said.

G.M. is expected to report healthy earnings this month for the fourth quarter of 2012, which would be its 12th straight profitable quarter. But it is still losing considerable money in Europe, where the economic downturn has depressed vehicle sales for several automakers.

The company has forecast that its 2012 losses in Europe will be at least $1.5 billion. Mr. Akerson said he hoped the losses could be trimmed by one-third this year, but reiterated that G.M.’s European operations would not break even until mid-decade.

He said there were no new plans for job cuts or factory closings on the Continent although the company planned to continue whittling down costs there. “We are taking out cost structure intelligently, more with a scalpel than a knife,” he said.

Mr. Akerson said that the company’s finances had improved and that he hoped it would be able to shed its junk credit rating this year and return to an investment-grade rating, which would allow it to reduce its borrowing costs.

But he was circumspect when discussing his own future. A former executive with the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, he declined to put a timetable on his tenure as G.M.’s chief.

“I think I will be here next year at this time,” he said. “But I don’t know how long that will run.”

In the short term, Mr. Akerson said he hoped G.M. could generate excitement for its new products next week at the industry’s big annual trade show in Detroit.

The company is set to unveil a coming redesign of its Corvette sports car, as well as a Cadillac version of its Volt plug-in hybrid. Consumers will also get their first look at the new pickups, which are scheduled to have their debut later this year.

The auto show spotlight could become a turning point in the public’s perception of G.M., said Ms. Lindland of IHS.

“The reality is that this company still has many challenges ahead,” she said. “It’s not the behemoth it once was, but they’re still not quite nimble yet.”
193 2013-01-10 But Dr. Buchanan contended that the pursuit of self-interest by modern politicians often led to harmful public results. Courting voters at election time, for example, legislators will approve tax cuts and spending increases for projects and entitlements favored by the electorate. This combination can lead to ever-rising deficits, public debt burdens and increasingly large governments to conduct the public’s business.

Indeed, he said, governments had grown so vast and complex that it was no longer possible for elected officials to make more than a fraction of the policy decisions that genuinely affect the people. Thus, he said, much discretionary power is actually held by civil functionaries who can manipulate priorities, impose barriers to entitlements and pressure legislators for rules and budgets favorable to their own interests.

Dr. Buchanan did not invent the theory of public choice, an idea whose origins are obscure but that arose in modern economics literature in the late 1940s. But from the 1950s onward, he became its leading proponent, spearheading a group of economists in Virginia that sought to change the nature of the political process, to bring it more into line with what the group considered the wishes of most Americans.

In lectures, articles and more than 30 books, Dr. Buchanan amplified on the theory of public choice and argued for smaller government, lower deficits and fewer regulations — a spectrum of policy objectives that were ascendant in the 1980s conservative agenda of President Ronald Reagan.

Over the years since Dr. Buchanan won the Nobel, much of what he predicted has played out. Government is bigger than ever. Tax revenue has fallen far short of public programs’ needs. Public and private borrowing has become a way of life. Politicians still act in their own interests while espousing the public good, and national deficits have soared into the trillions.

Dr. Buchanan partly blamed Keynesian economics for what he considered a decline in America’s fiscal discipline. John Maynard Keynes argued that budget deficits were not only unavoidable but in fiscal emergencies were even desirable as a means to increase spending, create jobs and cut unemployment. But that reasoning allowed politicians to rationalize deficits under many circumstances and over long periods, Dr. Buchanan contended.

In a commentary in The New York Times in March 2011, Tyler Cowen, an economics professor at George Mason, said his colleague Dr. Buchanan had accurately forecast that deficit spending for short-term gains would evolve into “a permanent disconnect” between government outlays and revenue.

“We end up institutionalizing irresponsibility in the federal government, the largest and most central institution in our society,” Dr. Cowen wrote. “As we fail to make progress on entitlement reform with each passing year, Professor Buchanan’s essentially moral critique of deficit spending looks more prophetic.”

James McGill Buchanan Jr. was born in Murfreesboro, Tenn., on Oct. 2, 1919, the son of a farmer and a schoolteacher, Lila Scott Buchanan. His grandfather John Price Buchanan was governor of Tennessee from 1891 to 1893.

He attended Middle Tennessee State Teachers College in Murfreesboro, living at home and milking cows to pay his way. He graduated first in his class in 1940, and earned a master’s degree in economics at the University of Tennessee in 1941. He joined the Navy, became an officer and served in World War II on the staff of Adm. Chester W. Nimitz, the Pacific Fleet commander.

In 1945, he married Anne Bakke. The couple had no children.

Dr. Buchanan earned his doctorate in 1948 at the University of Chicago, a hive of brilliant conservative economists known as the Chicago School, where he was influenced by the free-market economist Frank Hyneman Knight and by the writings of the 19th-century Swedish economist Knut Wicksell, who likened politics to fair exchanges among citizens and organizations.

Dr. Buchanan began teaching economics at the University of Tennessee, rising to full professor in 1950. He moved to Florida State University in 1951, and became chairman of its economics department in 1954. On a Fulbright grant, he studied in Italy in 1955-56, further developing his ideas on politics and economics.

He then became chairman of the economics department at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, where in 1957 he and the economist G. Warren Nutter founded the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy. Dr. Buchanan, its director for a decade, called it “a community of scholars who wished to preserve a social order based on individual liberty.”

After a year at the University of California, Los Angeles, Dr. Buchanan, in 1969, joined the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blacksburg, where he and the economist Gordon Tullock founded the Center for Study of Public Choice. They moved the center to George Mason in 1983, and it became the headquarters for public choice disciples. Conservative foundations helped support the center financially. Dr. Buchanan lived in Blacksburg.

Dr. Buchanan, an austere man with a severe aspect that many students found intimidating, often spoke of complex phenomena in metaphors, referring, for example, to politics as a game and to the Constitution as its rules. His books included “The Calculus of Consent: Logical Foundations of Constitutional Democracy” (1962, with Gordon Tullock) and “The Limits of Liberty: Between Anarchy and Leviathan” (1975).

He was a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization in Washington. He called himself a libertarian, but insisted that his ideas were primarily academic, not narrowly political, even when they inspired citizens’ property tax revolts or balanced-budget movements.

In awarding his Nobel, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences cited his work on economic and political decision-making. “Buchanan’s foremost achievement,” it said, “is that he has consistently and tenaciously emphasized the significance of fundamental rules and applied the concept of the political system as an exchange process for the achievement of mutual advantages.”

Dr. Buchanan said the prize highlighted his long struggle for a concept. “I have faced a sometimes lonely and mostly losing battle of ideas for some 30 years now in efforts to bring academic economists’ opinions into line with those of the man on the street,” he said. “My task has been to ‘uneducate’ the economists.”
194 2013-01-10 OXYGEN bars may be a relic of the late 1990s, but the element is popping up as a beauty-industry buzzword of the early 21st century — no plastic hose necessary.

The skin-care company Philosophy, known for its food-scented body washes and minimalist packaging, has begun selling Oxygen Boost Daily Energizing Oxygen Elixir, which will cost $24.50, and Take a Deep Breath Oil-Free Energizing Oxygen Gel Cream Moisturizer ($34). The company’s In-Home Oxygen Peel ($55) has been a top seller since its introduction in 1996, said Robin White, the director of international education and global press for Philosophy, adding: “Oxygen is known to give skin brightness and clarity. It works on clogged pores and dullness, and brings back radiance and freshness.” The new products contain a conditioning agent, perfluorodecalin, “which allows us to diffuse oxygen into the skin where it’s most needed,” Ms. White said. Natura Bissé, a skin-care company based in Barcelona, has been offering an oxygen-themed line of six products, including the addition of a jell ($85) and a foaming cleanser ($48), in October 2012.

“As we age, the oxygen in our body is depleted, which results in lifeless skin,” said Michael Ann Guthrie, vice president for retail for Natura Bissé. “Our oxygen products are based on stabilized hydrogen peroxide, which delivers molecules directly into the skin. This active ingredient breaks down into water and oxygen, and then supplies the skin with oxygen, which enables it to breathe.” In 2009, the brand introduced a portable “oxygen bubble,” a sealed environment purportedly containing 99.9 percent pure air that has been used as a promotional gambit before red-carpet events; V.I.P. customers have also been receiving complimentary treatments in the bubble as it floats through various spas, boutiques and luxury department stores.

Bliss has also created a number of oxygen-infused products. In 2010 and 2011, they introduced the Triple Oxygen Instant Energizing Mask ($54), Triple Oxygen Instant Energizing Cleansing Foam ($28), and Instant Energizing Eye Mask ($50). In the spring of this year, two new items will be added to the line, including a rich oxygenating cream. The company’s spas also offer two oxygen facials, a 75-minute treatment and a 30-minute one. Both promise luminosity, include an oxygen spray, and are among the spa’s most popular, said Susan Grey, regional vice president of spa operations for New York Bliss Spas. “Oxygen increases circulation, which increases the delivery of nutrition to the skin, and gives your skin energy,” she said. “It also kills bacteria which keeps post-facial breakouts away.” And, she said that as oxygen travels through the body, the skin is the last to receive it. “By time it gets there,” she added, “it’s a little tired.”

But not everyone is inhaling. “There’s no scientific evidence that oxygen can penetrate the skin or that it can stay in the product,” said Dr. Bruce Katz, a clinical professor of dermatology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the director of the Juva Skin and Laser Center in New York. He added that very few products can penetrate the stratum corneum, the outer layer of the skin.

The word “oxygen” conveys cleanliness, freshness and revitalization, though, and that is probably why spas other than Bliss are adding it to their menus. The Kimara Ahnert Makeup Studio, at Madison Avenue and 83rd Street, offers three oxygen-themed treatments. As with a shot of espresso or wheatgrass at a beverage bar, you can also add an oxygen blast (an enriched serum spray with pure blue oxygen) to any facial.
195 2013-01-10 The United States Embassy in Hanoi said in a statement that it was “deeply troubled” by the convictions and called them “part of a disturbing human rights trend in Vietnam.”

Phil Robertson, deputy director of the Asia division of Human Rights Watch, said this was the largest group to be brought to trial together in recent times.

“This is part of an ongoing, deepening crackdown we’ve been seeing for the past year and a half or two years,” Mr. Robertson said. “These people are bloggers, land activists, have attended or tried to attend dissident trials, have been involved in dissident activities including supporting poor people and people with disabilities.”

He added, “This is a message to other dissidents and bloggers that Vietnam means business.”

Mr. Robertson said the defendants had been charged after attending a training course in Bangkok held by Viet Tan. In the 1980s, the group led a resistance movement against the Vietnamese Communist government, but for the past few decades it has declared that it is committed to peaceful political reform, democracy and human rights in Vietnam.

Some defendants had also participated in peaceful protests in support of other dissidents who were on trial or in relation to China.

Protests have grown in recent years over China’s claims to disputed territory in the South China Sea and over a major bauxite plant run by China in Vietnam’s central highlands. The government has cracked down on demonstrations and Internet commentary for fear they could veer out of control and because of an antigovernment tone in many of them.

Five of the defendants had blogged in support of freedom of expression and of multiparty democracy, Human Rights Watch said. Before the trial, one of them, Dang Xuan Dieu, was quoted as saying, “I have done nothing contrary to my conscience” and that in punishing him, the government was “trampling on the eternal good morals of the Vietnamese nation.”

The other 13 convicted, as listed by Human Rights Watch, are Dang Ngoc Minh, Ho Duc Hoa, Ho Van Oanh, Le Van Son, Nguyen Dang Minh Man, Nguyen Dang Vinh Phuc, Nguyen Dinh Cuong, Nguyen Van Duyet, Nguyen Van Oai, Nguyen Xuan Oanh, Nong Hung Anh, Thai Van Dung, and Tran Minh Nhat.

As the Vietnamese economy grows fitfully and its expanding middle class becomes more lively and engaged, the government has carried out vigorous campaigns to police the Internet and curb public demonstrations.

In a New Year’s address that assessed the gains and shortcomings of Vietnam’s leadership, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung restated the government’s concern that conspirators continued to threaten to undermine it.

“We are regularly challenged by conspiracies to spark sociopolitical instability and violate our national sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said.

On Tuesday, for example, as the dissident trial was getting under way in central Vietnam, the daily Vietnam News reported that a woman had been sentenced in Ho Chi Minh City to 42 months in prison for “activities against the state.”

The newspaper said the woman, Lo Thanh Thao, 36, had “scattered propaganda leaflets” and “stuck them inside several buildings” in Ho Chi Minh City. It did not report the content of the leaflets.

In the most high-profile recent conviction, a prominent Vietnamese legal scholar who had sued the prime minister and called for multiparty democracy was convicted in April 2011 of propaganda against the state and sentenced to seven years in prison and three more years under house arrest.

The conviction of the scholar, Cu Huy Ha Vu, then 53, the son of a Communist revolutionary and a well-known poet, was one of dozens involving Vietnamese lawyers and activists over recent years.

Last March, two Catholic activists were sentenced to five and three years in prison for distributing what the indictment called antigovernment leaflets.

In September, three prominent bloggers received long prison terms. Among them was Nguyen Van Hai, who wrote under the name Dieu Cay, who was sent to prison for 12 years.

He was among several detained journalists mentioned by President Obama in a speech on World Press Freedom Day last May. Mr. Obama said the blogger’s first arrest, in 2008, had “coincided with a mass crackdown on citizen journalism in Vietnam.”
196 2013-01-10 The exchange was announced as Mr. Brahimi, a veteran Algerian diplomat, made his strongest suggestion yet that he would try to pressure Mr. Assad to step aside. Mr. Brahimi’s comments, in interviews with the BBC and Reuters, were his first since Mr. Assad, in a rare public address on Sunday, appeared to reject Mr. Brahimi’s mediation efforts as foreign interference.

“In Syria, in particular, I think that what people are saying is that a family ruling for 40 years is a little bit too long,” Mr. Brahimi told the BBC. Reuters quoted him as saying that Mr. Assad would surely not be a member of any transitional government, envisioned in a peace plan that major powers, including Russia and the United States, had drafted last year in Geneva.

There were other signs that opposing nations were seeking to bridge differences on Syria. Iran’s foreign minister is scheduled to hold talks on Syria on Thursday with President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt, who has made Mr. Assad’s removal his central foreign policy goal. A spokesman for Iran’s Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday that even countries that disagree on Syria realize its crisis has no military solution, and should talk more to bring their views closer. And a Turkish deputy foreign minister arrived on Wednesday in Moscow for high-level talks on the crisis, the Turkish news media reported.

Some Middle East political experts speculated that the timing of the prisoner exchange — and the lopsided ratio of roughly 44 people released by Syria for every freed Iranian hostage — reflected both Mr. Assad’s increasing dependence on Iran as well as Iran’s increased pressure on him, possibly out of fear that Syria’s instability may worsen.

“I’m wondering if this is the beginning of Iran starting to cut its losses, pulling out these folks, reducing its presence in the country,” said Mona Yacoubian,  a senior adviser on the Middle East at the Stimson Center, a Washington research group.

But some members of the Syrian opposition said the prisoner exchange merely showed that Mr. Assad showed more concern for Tehran than for his own soldiers, far more of whom are being held in captivity by rebels.

“If only we had half a million Iranians,” Adeeb Shishakly, an exile opposition member said on Facebook, “we would have released them for the freedom of 23 million Syrians.”

Iran’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement thanking Turkey and Qatar for helping to secure the release of the Iranian hostages. Iran state television showed a brief clip of them at the Sheraton Hotel in Damascus, grinning, flashing victory signs and holding flowers.

The Iranians were seized in August while traveling to a Shiite shrine near Damascus. Opposition fighters had threatened to kill them unless Mr. Assad’s forces stopped shooting. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said he hoped the exchange would lead to freedom for more prisoners in Syria — and emphasized, “This process needs to be appreciated.”

The exchange emerged from months of behind-the-scenes negotiations involving a Turkish charitable group, the Humanitarian Relief Foundation, widely known as I.H.H. The group had set up an operation center in Damascus to unite 2,130 prisoners, including 73 women, at one base while another aid team remained in Douma, near the Syrian capital, to oversee the return of the 48 Iranians.

Precise details remained unclear. There were no pictures or lists released of the Syrian prisoners, or official confirmation from the Syrian government.

But Syrian fighters and activists reported that prisoners had been freed, including the “brides of freedom,” Rima Dali and three others arrested in a Damascus market while wearing wedding dresses and carrying signs condemning bloodshed. The aid group said the prisoners included four Turks and a Palestinian, and its director, Bulent Yildirim, described prisoners at the Damascus exchange he coordinated.

“Captivity is a hard thing,” he said. “I saw young women crying, many people lost a lot of weight, and there were also many sick people.”

The Turkish aid group gained international attention in 2010 for organizing a flotilla of boats heading to Gaza, ostensibly with relief supplies, that prompted a deadly Israeli commando raid in which eight Turks and an American of Turkish descent died. Recently, the organization has also negotiated to free smaller numbers of prisoners, including two Turkish journalists held in Syria, Reuters reported, and delivered aid to Syrians.

Some rebel commanders said more modest prisoner exchanges had become a feature of the conflict.

The leader of a rebel fighting group in the central city of Hama, reached via Skype, said pro-government militia members had captured his uncle and two other relatives in a village in the northern Idlib Province last month.

“The only way to release them is capturing hostages,” the commander said. He said talks were under way to release his relatives in return for 12 captives held by rebels. Two months ago, he added, nine members of a pro-government militia, known as shabiha, were exchanged for five captured rebels.
197 2013-01-11 Friendly beatings from Doug Peterson and Brad Wilber....
198 2013-01-11 The naming of Flowers as the initial bidder will begin the first auction of brands by Hostess, which filed for liquidation in late November after struggling with nearly $1 billion in debt and labor costs it called onerous....
199 2013-01-11 The lawyers for Aaron Greene, who is charged with keeping an explosive chemical in his Greenwich Village apartment, criticized investigators' conclusions and said the police had leaked "innuendos, half-truths and slurs."...
200 2013-01-11 The Hall of Fame voting brought up an inadvertent point: members of the news media should not be involved in selecting honors for the sports they cover....
201 2013-01-11 DealBook analyzed new loan rules and examined cuts at Morgan Stanley. Andrew Ross Sorkin said the easing of rules for banks acknowledges reality. A.I.G. weighs whether to sue the U.S. but decides against it; two hedge fund managers clashed; an ex-...
202 2013-01-11 Lucy Alibar, one of the writers of "Beasts of the Southern Wild," said she started shivering when she heard the news that she had been nominated for an Oscar. Her father started cursing, but that was a good thing....
203 2013-01-11 Companies that rely on low gas prices oppose liquefied natural gas exports, saying it would hurt the economy. Drillers say the opposite....
204 2013-01-11 The ”Your Money” columnist Ron Lieber profiles a Seattle woman whose Web site helps individuals and families prepare their financial lives for the unexpected.
205 2013-01-11 The information technology sector, which once disdained paying dividends to shareholders, now pays more dividends than any other sector in the Standard & Poor’s 500. The charts show the relative standing of the three sectors — technology, financials and consumer staples — that have led the Standard & Poor’s 500 in dividend payments in at least one of the last nine years, as well as the dividend yield on each of the five largest companies in each sector at the end of 2012.
206 2013-01-11 In this week's installment, students can write argumentative pieces about a mining town in Peru; create poems in honor of the poet chosen for this year's presidential inauguration; and summarize why many countries are concerned with Syria's possib...
207 2013-01-11 Confidence-shaking technology mishaps have been an almost daily occurrence at the nation's stock exchanges in the new year, Nathaniel Popper reports in Friday's New York Times. On Wednesday night, BATS Global Markets alerted its customers that a p...
208 2013-01-11 Officials called for changes to Euribor, but stopped short of demanding direct regulatory oversight in the wake of the rate-rigging scandal....
209 2013-01-11 "I always want to grow more quickly," said one owner. But another owner issued a warning: "The unending desire to want to grow, grow, grow can derail you."...
210 2013-01-11 A 33-year-old rights activist, Irfan Ali, was among more than 100 Pakistanis killed in bombings on Thursday. He was mourned by fellow activists, bloggers and journalists online....
211 2013-01-11 After a three-day hearing, Judge William Sylvester ruled Thursday that there is enough evidence for James E. Holmes to face trial on charges that he killed 12 people and wounded 70 in an Aurora movie theater last summer. Mr. Holmes is scheduled to be arraigned Friday, but his defense filed papers Thursday that he is not ready to enter a plea.
212 2013-01-11 In his debut on the PGA Tour, Scott Langley thrived on a pure putting stroke for an eight-under-par 62, giving him a one-shot lead over Russell Henley in the first round of the Sony Open in Honolulu.
213 2013-01-11 This year, the company has bought time on CBS for one commercial for Budweiser, two for Bud Light and three for two new beers: Budweiser Black Crown and Beck's Sapphire....
214 2013-01-11 “It’s frustrating without having that huge player to lean on like No. 7,” Smith said of Anthony. “It was tough especially playing on the road. It’s tough to not have that one guy you know you’re going to get a bucket from.”

Before the game, Woodson said he had to change his strategy and starting lineup. Chris Copeland, a 28-year-old rookie, started in place of Anthony and finished with 8 points and 6 rebounds.

Woodson was disappointed that Anthony had been suspended after he had already traveled with the team to Indianapolis. But he also knew Anthony could be disciplined after Woodson, the police and security guards had to keep Anthony from getting close to Garnett while the Celtics were boarding their team bus.

“That’s their decision, and we just have to move on,” Woodson said.  “We can’t go back. We have to live for the next day. There is not a lot we can do as an organization.”

Boston Coach Doc Rivers said Thursday that Garnett did not make an offensive comment to Anthony about his wife, the actress La La Vasquez, during the game, as had been speculated.

“I know what’s been reported did not happen,” Rivers said in his weekly interview on the Boston sports radio station WEEI.

Somewhere in Indianapolis, Anthony, who was prohibited from being in the arena, watched his team struggle on offense. Even if the Knicks were playing inspired defense against the Pacers, at a certain point in the fourth quarter, the Pacers did not have to score. They just needed to run time off the shot clock.

“All they had to do was score two or three times and to open up the game,” Pablo Prigioni said of the Pacers. “On defense we were good. We made a big effort, but we needed more points. All of our offense has been around Carmelo and Raymond Felton.”

Woodson said he did not have a problem with how his team played. He felt the Knicks had good looks at the basket in the fourth quarter. The shots just did not fall.

For much of the night, the game resembled a Big Ten game between Wisconsin and Purdue. Points were so difficult to come by that neither team reached the 40-point mark in the first half.

Both teams were painful to watch shoot from the perimeter. The Knicks’ lone 3-pointer in the first half came in the final seconds of the second quarter when Jason Kidd swished his shot from the corner.

The Knicks found themselves down by 49-38 early in the third quarter, but they rallied to take a 62-60 lead early in the fourth quarter after a basket by Chandler. The Knicks then went on to miss 11 straight shots, and their chances of winning evaporated.

“I give the Pacers all the credit in the world for playing solid defense,” Chandler said. “We thought this was one game we could come in and steal, but I also know we’re very undermanned right now.”

The Knicks kept Amar’e Stoudemire to 22 minutes of playing time. He finished with 9 points and 8 rebounds. If he plays Friday against the Chicago Bulls, it would be his first back-to-back games of the season. ...Marcus Camby left the game with a sore left foot in the third quarter. He did not return.
215 2013-01-11 Joe Ratterman, the chief executive of BATS, said Thursday that he viewed the firm’s announcement this week as a sign of markets that were functioning well, given his firm’s ability to find a problem that he called an “extreme edge-case scenario.”

“We discovered this problem and reported it — it’s a positive thing,” Mr. Ratterman said. “It’s being covered as if it’s a negative issue, and a continuation of a series of problems.

“Call me an optimist, but I see positive indications of the markets moving forward,” he said.

Regulators and traders have said that malfunctions are inevitable in any complex computer system. But many of these same people say that such problems were less frequent before the nation’s stock exchanges were thrown into a technological arms race in the middle of the last decade as a host of upstart exchanges like BATS challenged incumbents like the New York Stock Exchange.

The nation’s 13 public stock exchanges now compete fiercely to offer the latest, fastest and most sophisticated trading software, in part to appeal to the high-speed trading firms that have come to account for over half of all stock trading. With each tweak comes a new opportunity for a mistake to be inserted into the system.

“The rate of change is getting so rapid that the quality assurance process isn’t as robust as it should be,” said George Simon, a partner at Foley & Lardner who used to work at the Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees the nation’s stock markets. “This has been something that has been brewing now for five years, and it keeps getting worse.”

Mr. Simon said that in less fragmented and complex markets, technology problems had been less common.

The market malfunctions have been assigned part of the blame for the diminishing amount of trading happening on the nation’s stock exchanges. The total volume of daily trading was down 17.6 percent in 2012 from 2011, according to Rosenblatt Securities.

Mr. Samelson of Woodbine Associates said the problems had long rattled retail investors, but they were becoming increasingly worrying for big institutional investors as well. While he was talking about the BATS mishap on Thursday, he received a text message from one big investor who said, “as if we didn’t have enough bad news.”

The problem reported by BATS was different from many other recent problems because it did not halt trading. Instead, the programming error meant some trades were not executed at the best price, as exchanges are required to do by law.

Only a small category of very complex trades were executed at the wrong prices, all of them coming from investors trying to do a so-called short sale of stocks. The 435,000 erroneous trades were only 0.003 percent of all trades over the last four years, according to Mr. Ratterman.

“This is so hard to identify that no customer ever identified it,” Mr. Ratterman said.

Mr. Ratterman said that 119 member firms lost money. He said he was not yet sure if BATS would compensate its members for their losses. BATS informed the members and the S.E.C. of the problem on Wednesday night, after discovering it on Friday.

The S.E.C. was not previously aware of the problem, but the enforcement division is already reviewing the issue, according to people with knowledge of the review who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

S.E.C. officials have acknowledged that they do not have adequate tools to properly police the high-speed, highly fragmented stock markets. But the agency has started several initiatives to catch up. Last year, the agency purchased software from a high-frequency trading firm that will give regulators a real-time window into the markets.

The agency has also been considering a rule that would force exchanges to submit their technology for regulatory review, something that some exchanges currently do voluntarily. At recent hearings called to examine the automation of the markets, members of the industry have supported other reforms to strengthen the system, like kill switches that would automatically stop errant trading.

Mr. Ratterman said regulators could make small changes to rules that would simplify the market infrastructure and make it less prone to mishaps.

But executives at some other exchanges have said that more sweeping changes are necessary. At a hearing in December, Joe Mecane, an executive at the New York Stock Exchange’s parent company, said that “technology and our market structure have created unnecessary complexity and mistrust of markets.”

Amy Butte, the former chief financial officer at the exchange, said that “you are only going to see more and more of this until someone says, ‘I’m not going to put up with this level of errors.’ ”
216 2013-01-11 Craig Biggio said he might have been bypassed for the Hall of Fame because he was on the ballot for the first time with several stars linked to performance-enhancing drugs. Biggio, who had 3,060 hits, got the highest vote total Wednesday in a year that produced no electees. He appeared on 68.2 percent of the 569 ballots — 39 votes shy.

“I think it’s kind of unfair, but it’s the reality of the era that we played in,” he said.
217 2013-01-11 Mr. Geithner ran the Treasury during the tumultuous years of the financial crisis and a recession that slowly gave way to a recovery, albeit an unsteady one. As president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York before he joined Mr. Obama’s cabinet in 2009, he was at the center of the most nerve-racking moments of the banking crisis. And his low-key but forceful insistence kept the Treasury at the center of every major economic policy decision of Mr. Obama’s first term, aside from the health care overhaul.

By a combination of historical accident and his own design, Mr. Geithner will go down as one of the most influential Treasury secretaries, alongside figures like Robert E. Rubin, who served under President Bill Clinton, and Henry Morgenthau Jr., who served under Roosevelt.

But he has not always been a popular one. Both Republicans and Democrats have accused him of subverting capitalism and dedicating taxpayer money to “too big to fail” institutions in perpetuity. The left has criticized him for helping “fat cat” bankers instead of regular people, especially underwater homeowners.

“Is the system safer today?” said Dennis M. Kelleher, president of Better Markets, a nonprofit that advocates stricter financial regulations. “The collapse turned an implicit public guarantee into an explicit public guarantee. It is one of the most dramatic changes of federal policy in history and puts too much at stake.”

Still, Mr. Geithner has attained something like a first-among-equals stature at the White House. He is one of the only top-level staff members to have remained throughout Mr. Obama’s first term, and his word and policy judgments have prevailed in fight after fight and negotiation after negotiation.

“He went from someone who people were unsure of in the first six months to achieving the elevated status of being the guy who made the toughest and loneliest calls at the most politically perilous moments — and turned out to be right,” said Gene B. Sperling, director of the National Economic Council.

In many ways, his colleagues said, Mr. Geithner’s job seemed at times to be that of a firefighter or, at its worst moments, a glorified janitor. His four years were filled with a series of crises: the collapse of the financial system, spiraling unemployment, the cratering housing market, the financial reform bill, the ailing auto industry, the European debt crisis, a debt ceiling standoff and two protracted budget negotiations.

“He is so serene in good times and in bad,” said Michael Froman, a deputy national security adviser who has known Mr. Geithner for two decades and helped introduce him to Mr. Obama. Given Mr. Geithner’s background fighting financial disasters abroad as a Treasury aide, Mr. Froman said, “I think he was better prepared than anyone to deal with these crises.”

The decisions Mr. Geithner made during the financial crisis remain among his most controversial. For instance, he quashed proposals to seize bonuses, impose new taxes or otherwise punish bankers, whose pay rebounded quickly after the collapse.

Mr. Geithner refers to such proposals as the “Old Testament” part of the rescue and reform effort. “We just didn’t see a more effective response,” he said. “If you’re governing, your responsibility is to do what you think is going to be best for the welfare of the country.” More punitive measures might have been emotionally satisfying, administration aides said, but they might also have put taxpayer dollars at risk by destabilizing the banks.

Housing is another area in which Mr. Geithner’s leadership has been criticized. The Obama administration estimated at first that it could reach three million to four million homeowners with its mortgage plans, but it has aided less than half that number and left billions of dollars unspent.

“Our authority on housing was very, very limited,” Mr. Geithner said. “We were able to use a significant amount of the authority in the Troubled Asset Relief Program to design a program for modifying the loans of a pretty substantial fraction of Americans facing foreclosure. But we had no legal authority to compel banks to provide mortgage relief. All we could do was find incentives.”

He added, “It’s not clear with greater authority we would have been able to achieve a significantly faster pace of improvement.”

Such technocratic responses are typical of Mr. Geithner. His aides say that empathizing with the public and communicating his anger or disappointment with the slow pace of the recovery have always been among his weak points.

He has struggled at times with the outward-facing role of the Treasury secretary. He dislikes speaking with the press and bristles at being a “potted plant” trotted out at news conferences, for instance. Aides said they prepared him for media appearances as if playing the game Taboo, banning him from using phrases like “credit-default spreads.”

But within the White House, Mr. Geithner’s technocratic skills and no-drama attitude, as well as his calls on how to deal with the crisis, made him one of Mr. Obama’s most trusted aides. Though he is mostly known for his work on the financial crisis, he was also the White House’s main emissary to Europe on its debt crisis and spent hundreds of hours working on fiscal negotiations with Congress. During his tenure, he made 61 domestic trips and 37 international ones, and testified 67 times to Congressional committees.

Looking back, he said, more authority or financing from Congress might have helped the administration promote the recovery. But he said he felt comfortable otherwise.

Asked directly how he viewed his tenure, however, Mr. Geithner shied away. “I kind of think that’s better for history to answer,” he said.
218 2013-01-11 The , which governs parts of the not under Israeli control, is in financial crisis. Its leaders are finding it increasingly difficult to pay 180,000 government employees, including security forces as well as other civil servants.

This is not a problem that can be swept under the rug. Whatever the criticisms of the Palestinian Authority, and there are many, has increasingly depended on it to manage and keep the peace in a strategically critical swath of territory. If there is ever to be a peace agreement between Israel and the , there has to be a competent government to run a Palestinian state and leaders with whom to make a deal.

The authority, established under the 1993 Accords that were to lead to a permanent peace agreement, was supposed to be that vehicle. But it is in danger of being so weakened that it would be unable to carry out those responsibilities. Its financial woes are not new. A World Bank report in September said a “persistent shortfall in donor funding has exacerbated the P.A.’s increasingly difficult fiscal situation, leaving a financing gap of almost $400 million.” And, in an interview with The Associated Press on Sunday, the Palestinian prime minister, , the official in charge of the government bureaucracy, said the problems are worsening and the authority is on the “verge of being completely incapacitated.”

There are many causes. After , the Palestinian president, won an upgrade for the status of Palestine as a nonmember observer state at the last fall, Israel retaliated by withholding the $100 million in monthly revenues it collects on behalf of the Palestinians. Congress, meanwhile, has been withholding more than $450 million in American aid. Last year, Mr. Fayyad said he hoped to improve the authority’s financial condition by cutting spending and raising taxes on wealthier Palestinians. The tax plan ran into strong protest and the West Bank’s modest economic growth has slowed.

In the recent interview Mr. Fayyad put most of the blame for the authority’s financial distress on Arab donors who are “not fulfilling their pledge of support” made in resolutions to make up the money Israel is withholding. This should come as little surprise. Arab leaders have often promised political and economic support for the Palestinians and failed to deliver. Arab foreign ministers are expected to meet Sunday in Cairo to discuss Palestinian issues, including the promised aid. They should affirm their commitment to assist the Palestinian Authority and get the funds flowing.

There are many threats to a two-state solution, including an Israeli government that could become even more hard-line after the Jan. 22 election. But, as the World Bank has said, Mr. Fayyad has made progress in building a functioning government. Israel, the Palestinians, Arab states and the international community all have a stake in making sure that is preserved and strengthened.
219 2013-01-11 LONDON — With a jury’s unanimous guilty vote on Thursday, one of the most senior female officers at Scotland Yard became the first person to be convicted of a criminal offense in the phone hacking scandal that has enveloped Rupert Murdoch’s newspaper empire in Britain over the past 30 months.

The officer, Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn, 53, was convicted of a single count of misconduct in public office after a three-day trial. The judge, Sir Adrian Fulford, warned Ms. Casburn that she faced “a real possibility” of a prison sentence, to be decided after he reviewed sentencing submissions from prosecuting and defense counsels in the case.

The verdict carried implications for a battery of other trials expected this year and next as prosecutors work their way through police files on more than 90 people who have been arrested in the scandal.

In many of the cases, the individuals — police officers, newspaper executives, editors, reporters and private investigators working for the newspapers — have offered the same defense advanced by Ms. Casburn and her lawyers: that they were acting in the public interest.

The case revolved around Ms. Casburn’s telephone call to the Murdoch-owned News of the World tabloid on Sept. 11, 2010, in which she told a reporter details of a confidential new investigation into allegations that the paper had been involved in a widespread pattern of hacking into the cellphone messages of celebrities.

Ms. Casburn maintained on the witness stand that she was motivated by her anger at a decision by her superiors to assign the new investigation to Scotland Yard’s counterterrorism command, where she headed a unit responsible for investigating terrorist financing. She cited a strongly male bias within the counterterrorism unit, telling the court that there was a “palpable excitement” at the prospect of interviewing celebrities who had said that their phones had been hacked, including the actress Sienna Miller. “I felt very strongly that we shouldn’t be doing hacking,” she said. “Our function was to prevent terrorist attacks.”
220 2013-01-11 And though the plan may have some merit on paper, it would be hard to carry out in practice, given the ties that bind Cyprus to Russia.

Demetris Christofias, the Cypriot president, is a Communist who received his higher education in Russia. What is more, Russia provided Cyprus with $3.3 billion in emergency financing last year. And the largest individual shareholder of the Bank of Cyprus is Dmitry Rybolovlev, a billionaire Russian businessman.

But European officials see Cyprus as a new opportunity to censure banks for what they describe as their too-big-to-fail sense of entitlement, according to some people involved in the bailout discussions. Cyprus’s loosely regulated and tax-friendly banking climate has long made it a favorite destination for Russians seeking to place their rubles in a euro zone bank that does not ask too many questions.

People in favor of forcing depositors to share the cost of the bailout make this argument: It was an unusually high, $14.4 billion spike in Cypriot bank deposits in 2010 — as much as half of it from Russia — that prompted the banks to make the bad lending decisions that led to their collapse. The banks put much of the money into Greek government bonds, only to absorb big losses when those bonds were restructured last year.

Of the $22.2 billion needed to keep Cyprus afloat, at least $13.1 billion would need to be pumped into the country’s banks.

European officials caution that while it may still be a long shot, a move to force large, uninsured depositors to share the pain with Europe’s taxpayers would send a powerful message to the market that risky financial conduct has consequences.

“If it is just the official sector that does this, then what you end up doing is bailing out Russian oligarchs,” said Alessandro Leipold, chief economist of the Lisbon Council, a research organization in Brussels, and a former top executive at the International Monetary Fund. “I would be very surprised if there is no private sector involvement here.”

German lawmakers have said they will reject any deal that has the effect of bailing out Russian depositors. And Chancellor Angela Merkel, who plans to visit Cyprus on Friday, said Wednesday that the country would be given “no special conditions.”

Forcing losses on bank depositors is a last-ditch measure taken by bankrupt governments when all other measures have been exhausted. During the debt crisis in Latin America in the ’80s, depositors lost money when their dollar accounts were changed into the local, devalued currency. Another way to make depositors share the pain would be to convert long-term deposits into bonds with stretched-out maturities.

In Europe, such an action is rare. That it is being discussed at all underscores how serious international creditors have become in ensuring that any coming euro zone bailouts will extract a toll from private investors.

European attitudes have hardened in recent weeks in the wake of the sky-high profits that hedge funds locked in when Europe decided not to try to force investors to accept a lower price for their bonds in the buyback of Greek debt last month.

No final agreement on the Cyprus bailout is expected until after the country’s presidential election on Feb. 17. Mr. Christofias, who opposes tough austerity measures like selling state assets, is not running for re-election. The favorite to succeed him, Nicos Anastasiades of the center-right DISY party, is seen by European officials as a better negotiating partner.

Other possibilities for extracting a price from private investors are also being examined, people involved in the discussions say. Those include steep write-downs in the value of the senior bonds in the country’s two largest financial institutions, Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank.

Another possibility is imposing losses on foreign investors holding Cypriot government bonds.

“All options are on the table,” said a senior European official who is participating in the talks but spoke only on condition of anonymity.

Of course, going after depositors carries significant risks. As much as $18.3 billion of Cyprus’s $91.5 billion in deposits is said to be Russian-held, and any hint that savers will have to take a hit could prompt a bank run and seriously damage its standing as an offshore banking hub. Russia, as the country’s largest creditor, would no doubt raise strenuous objections. Euro zone countries with fragile banking systems, moreover, would worry about the risk of contagion.

But the main alternative — loading losses onto investors holding government bonds — has its own drawbacks. The country’s banks own about $2.6 billion of the $4.97 billion worth of government bonds outstanding; hedge funds and other foreign investors hold the rest.

The banks’ bond losses, in the meantime, would be added to Europe’s bailout bill.

Analysts also argue that with a ratio of debt to gross domestic product of just below 80 percent — lower than Germany’s or France’s — Cyprus is not guilty of the sort of borrowing excesses that forced the Greek government to seek a bailout. Instead, it was the reckless conduct of its overambitious banks, which lent aggressively to Greece.

Unlike larger euro zone economies, Cyprus’s bonds are governed by the investor protections of English law — something Cyprus had to agree to in order to lure investors to its smaller, inherently riskier economy. English law makes it easier for private investors to sue if their bonds are restructured as part of a bailout.

And experts argue that with foreign funds now willing once again to make substantial investments in European banks and government securities, there is no point in testing the fragile nerves of portfolio managers.

Better that Europe pinch its nose and write Cyprus a $22.2 billion check, some analysts say — and if that means happy returns for hedge funds and Russian depositors, it is a small price to pay when the stability of the euro zone is at stake.

“If you did not do this in Ireland, then it is not worth doing now that Europe is on the mend,” said Gabriel Sterne, an analyst at Exotix, a securities house in London. “Cyprus is so small and piddly — why bother?”

But there’s the rub. Ireland, as part of an $111 billion bailout in 2010, granted a blanket guarantee to its depositors and investors who owned the senior bonds of its collapsed banks. That decision quickly rendered the country insolvent. Even now, having passed a raft of austerity measures, Ireland has a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio just below the 120 percent level that most economists, including the I.M.F., say is unsustainable for a country to bear.

The cost of making a Cyprus bailout an official-sector-only affair would push its debt-to-G.D.P. ratio above 140 percent.

“What you have here is an insolvent banking system that you are deliberately turning into an insolvent government,” said Adam Lerrick, a sovereign debt specialist at the American Enterprise Institute.

That might well be. But the Cypriot government “will fight deposit haircuts to the death,” said Alexandros Apostolides, an economist in Cyprus.

If the country gets its preference, when its Russian-speaking bankers say strizhka, they will be referring only to a trip to the barbershop.
221 2013-01-11 The minister selected by to deliver the benediction at his inaugural withdrew Thursday from the program, putting a quick end to a developing controversy over a sermon he gave in the 1990s in which he called on Christians to fight the “aggressive agenda” of the gay-rights movement.

The minister, the Rev. Louie Giglio, said in a statement that he would “continue to pray regularly for the president” — including on Day — but did not want to become a distraction.

“Due to a message of mine that has surfaced from 15-20 years ago,” the statement said, “it is likely that my participation and the prayer I would offer will be dwarfed by those seeking to make their agenda the focal point of the inauguration.”

Officials at Mr. Obama’s Presidential Inaugural Committee, which operates separately from the White House, announced the decision — less than 24 hours after news of Mr. Giglio’s sermon surfaced — and took responsibility for failing to properly vet him.

“We were not aware of Pastor Giglio’s past comments at the time of his selection, and they don’t reflect our desire to celebrate the strength and diversity of our country at this inaugural,” said Addie Whisenant, the spokeswoman for the committee. “Pastor Giglio was asked to deliver the benediction in large part for his leadership in combating human trafficking around the world. As we now work to select someone to deliver the benediction, we will ensure their beliefs reflect this administration’s vision of inclusion and acceptance for all Americans.”
222 2013-01-11 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
223 2013-01-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
224 2013-01-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
225 2013-01-12 The cannons of the British warship H.M.S. Hussar were last fired in anger during the Revolutionary War. But when Central Park Conservancy workers arrived to clean one on Friday, the police said, they found it was still loaded with gunpowder and a cannonball, ready to fire.

The park workers found the ammunition when they removed a plug in the cannon’s barrel, said Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the police. Then the workers dialed 911. When the bomb squad arrived, Mr. Browne said, “They tilted the barrel of the cannon and the cannonball rolled out.” Inside, too, was one pound and 12 ounces of gunpowder wrapped in wool. “In theory you could have fired that cannon,” Mr. Browne said, “because the powder was still working.”

The Police Department provided pictures of the pitted cannon angled upward as it might have been on deck; the cannonball, the size of a melon; and mounds of black gunpowder.

The powder was removed and taken to a gun range for safekeeping, Mr. Browne said, and the wool in which it was wrapped was returned to the conservancy as a historical artifact.

Several ships of that era were named the Hussar, but only one is known to have sunk in the East River, in 1780, when it hit rocks near the South Bronx. It was not immediately clear whether the cannon was salvaged from that wreck. Calls to the conservancy were not returned Friday night.
226 2013-01-12 “He’s not getting a cellphone,” Petey recalled saying. “Let me look inside the bag.”

The group barreled past her, pushing her out the door and onto the Spring Street sidewalk; the five people ran away, leaving her shaken but not hurt, she said. They took two jackets, a pair of shorts and a tweed coat, almost $4,000 in clothing in all.

After the police left, Petey did, too. Waiting for a cab, she realized she was standing in front of a True Religion store, and she went inside and described the family to an employee. Yes, she was told, we remember them. They robbed one of our stores, too.

The police obtained footage from a camera in a True Religion store near Union Square, and the clerks at Olive and Bette’s were able to pick out the suspects.

That tall, skinny guy is hard to miss. Walk through SoHo and ask almost any boutique clerk.

“They come in here all the time,” said Edward Montgomery, 25, an assistant manager at Second Time Around on Thompson Street. They carry bags from other boutiques, as if to suggest they’re on a shopping spree, but the bags look empty.

“They go straight for the jeans,” he said, “and ask you every single question about high-end jeans.” Mr. Montgomery particularly remembers the tall young man. “Maybe 19. Rough-looking hair. He always wears a letterman jacket. He always has on red Toms. He always has ashy hands. Like a hard worker.” The group pretends to try on clothes, stealing them instead. When he sees them entering the store he threatens to call the police, he said. The teenagers, who are black, accuse his white colleagues of racism, he said, and sometimes they do worse.

“They sprayed one of our girls with pepper spray and tried to cut me with a razor,” he said.

The store detective at Flying A, another boutique on Spring Street, said he saw one girl in the group punch a police officer in the face and run away. After he saw them shoplifting in his store, the man, Terell Cright, 30, said he called them outside and, as a show of respect, passed around his cigarettes before telling them he would call police officers, several of whom he knew, if he saw them again.

“I don’t call 911,” he said. “I have cellphone numbers.” Now, when they pass the store, they wave, he said.

Police detectives are investigating several thefts in at least two precincts that appear to include the same suspects, said Sgt. Christopher Higgins of the First Precinct’s detective squad. Detectives are reviewing video from the stores in hopes of releasing photographs of the suspects, he said. Boutiques are uniquely vulnerable to theft, with lax security — although several have recently hired guards — and fewer of the anti-theft devices common in larger stores.

“Products are on the shelves, like, expensive products,” Sergeant Higgins said. “Some of these jeans go for a couple hundred bucks. If a store is crowded, they can get stuff out of the store almost undetected.”

A boutique on Spring called Helianthus has covered its front windows with signs announcing it is closing after three years. A recent visit from five women and a man — a short man this time — who stole shoes, dresses and vests did not lead to the decision to close, the owner, Grace Wang, said, but she will hardly miss that element of the business. “It’s, like, not secure,” she said. “It doesn’t make sense. It’s just not worth it.”
227 2013-01-12 PORTLAND, Ore. — A defense lawyer for a 21-year-old Somali-American told a federal jury here on Friday that his client did in fact push a cellphone button on a night in late November 2010 believing he was detonating a truck bomb that would kill hundreds or thousands of people who had gathered to watch downtown Portland’s Christmas lights come on.

“Not disputed,” said the lawyer, Stephen R. Sady. “That all happened.”

The larger question, Mr. Sady told the jury, is how the defendant, Mohamed Osman Mohamud, got to that moment. That no one was harmed and that the bomb was a fake — built by F.B.I. technicians to mimic a crude explosive, accurate in its details right down to the smell of diesel fuel that filled the van housing it — were just the backdrop, he said, to a story of psychology and manipulation by undercover agents who went too far setting up an elaborate sting against a confused young man.

“Did the government create the crime?” he asked in opening statements in Mr. Mohamud’s trial on a charge of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction. “Did the F.B.I. foil its own plot?”

In the government’s opening remarks, a federal prosecutor told the jurors that mental attitude was the key element to watch in following the evidence. But Pamala R. Holsinger, the assistant United States attorney, said the hours of tapes and videos leading up to the moment of attack, which the jurors will hear in court, would reveal not manipulation by undercover agents. Instead, they would show a deliberate, vehement intent to kill by a young man who had embraced violent religious extremism.

She said that Mr. Mohamud devised the bomb attack, intended to achieve the most casualties, and that F.B.I. operatives gave him opportunity after opportunity to change his mind.

The estimated 25,000 people gathered that night for the tree lighting ceremony might not have been in genuine physical danger, Ms. Holsinger said, but that was only because federal agents prevented Mr. Mohamud from connecting with real terrorists who would have helped him create a real bomb. The intent was what mattered, she said, and it was real, and criminal.
228 2013-01-12 Aides to Mr. Obama believe they are still on track to make their budget.

More corporate donors and more of Mr. Obama’s longtime supporters were expected to appear on an updated list that was to be published on Friday.

But the difficulties reflect both the exhaustion of donors after Mr. Obama’s record-breaking re-election campaign and leftover tensions with the business community, with which the administration has sometimes clashed. Some people involved in planning inauguration events said they believed that businesses were unwilling to contribute because they did not want to be associated with Washington after the contentious debate over the fiscal crisis.

But Mr. Obama’s team is also butting heads with longtime allies, pushing many of them to make contribute even more now in order to qualify for the top-tier inaugural packages.

In some cases, the donors have already raised millions of dollars for Mr. Obama and say they believe they have already earned the right to attend the events.

The packages — each named after a former president — include access to the inauguration’s parade of exclusive receptions and other events.

Some donors will be allowed to accompany Mr. Obama and other elected officials on the viewing stand where the president will watch the inauguration parade.

Others may attend a “candlelight reception” at the National Building Museum, where a photo reception with the president, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and their wives will cost as much as $100,000.

Donors, for their part, have also pressured Mr. Obama’s aides to offer firmed-up schedules so that they can plan their travel, challenging a staff that has roughly five weeks to orchestrate an elaborate sequence of concerts, volunteering events and parties.

One preliminary list of events, sent to members of Mr. Obama’s finance team by Sam Brown, a senior inaugural official, included a wry note: “This is outrageously subject to change, but something to placate the vultures.”

The drive for money has led to some frustration on both sides amid continued wrangling over donations and access. Donors and aides are negotiating the price of tickets to exclusive events and other benefits.

And the campaign is still rolling out new offers, including a “Daily Deal” e-mailed to top donors.

One recent Daily Deal featured two front-row seats at the “Kid’s Inaugural,” headlined by the pop singer Katy Perry. (Some donors were annoyed when tickets to the event were pulled from one of the inauguration packages after a venue change left fewer seats available.)

The administration has planned a more modest array of events this time around, reflecting a less jubilant public mood than four years ago and diminished demand among Obama supporters.

But while some events, like the inaugural ball on the night of Jan. 21, have sold out quickly, others have done a less brisk business, leading Mr. Obama’s team to discount some packages and offer new ones at relatively low prices.

In an e-mail to top donors on Monday, Rufus Gifford, Mr. Obama’s finance director, announced a “Monroe Package” for $7,500.

“I’d like to extend my sincere thanks for your incredible effort over the past two years to help the campaign,” Mr. Gifford wrote. “You’re among the first to know about the Monroe Package, specifically put together for major supporters like yourself. I have personally customized this package to include preferred tickets to all of Monday’s festivities, including two V.I.P. tickets to the Inaugural Parade, and two tickets to the Official Inaugural Ball in the Premium Section.”
229 2013-01-12 Weeks after two people were killed after being pushed into the paths of trains, officials have added more messages telling passengers to stand clear of the platform edge....
230 2013-01-12 Pictures From the Week in Business, Jan. 11
231 2013-01-12 Deaths from pneumonia and the flu, a wavy curve that is low in summer and high in winter, typically touch the epidemic level for one or two weeks every flu season. How bad a season is depends on how high the deaths climb for how long.

So far this season, 20 children with confirmed flu tests have died, but that is presumably lower than the actual number of deaths because not all children are tested and not all such deaths are reported. How many adults die will not be estimated until after the season ends, said Dr. Joseph Bresee, the chief of prevention and epidemiology for the C.D.C.’s flu branch. Epidemiologists count how many death certificates are filed in a flu year, compare the number with normal years, and estimate what percentage were probably flu-related.

Many people are getting ill this year because the country is also having widespread outbreaks of two diseases with overlapping symptoms, norovirus and whooping cough, and the normal winter surge in common colds. Flu shots have no effect on any of those.

Spot shortages of vaccines have been reported, and there will not be enough for all Americans, since the industry has made and shipped only about 130 million doses. But officials said they would be pleased if 50 percent of Americans got shots; in a typical year, 37 percent do.

Dr. Bresee said that this year’s epidemic resembles that of 2003-4, which also began early, was dominated by an H3N2 strain and killed more Americans than usual.

Nevertheless, more Americans now routinely get flu shots than did then, and doctors are much quicker to prescribe Tamiflu and Relenza, drugs that can lessen a flu’s severity if taken early.

The C.D.C.’s vaccine effectiveness study bore out the point of view of a report released last year by the University of Minnesota’s Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy. It said that the shot’s effectiveness had been “overpromoted and overhyped,” said Michael T. Osterholm, the center’s director.

Although the report supported getting flu shots, it said that new vaccines offering lifelong protection against all flu strains, instead of annual partial protection against a mix-and-match set, must be created.

“But there’s no appetite to fund that research,” Dr. Osterholm said in an interview Friday.

“To get a vaccine across the ‘Valley of Death’ is likely to cost $1 billion,” he added, referring to the huge clinical trials that would be needed to approve a new type of vaccine. “No government has put more than $100 million into any candidate, and the private sector has no appetite for it because there’s not enough return on investment.”

At the same time, he praised the C.D.C. for measuring vaccine effectiveness in midseason.

“We’re the only ones in the world who have data like that,” he said.

“Vaccine effectiveness” is a very different metric from vaccine-virus match, which is done in a lab. Vaccine efficacy is measured by interviewing hundreds of sick or recovering patients who had positive flu tests and asking whether and when they had received shots.

Only people sick enough to visit doctors get flu tests, said Thomas Skinner, a C.D.C. spokesman, so the metric means the shot “reduces by 62 percent your chance of getting a flu so bad that you have to go to a doctor or hospital.”

During the telephone news conference Friday, Dr. Frieden repeatedly described the vaccine as “far from perfect, but by far the best tool we have to prevent influenza.”

Most vaccinations given in childhood for threats like measles and diphtheria are 90 percent effective or better. But flu viruses mutate so fast that they must be remade annually. Scientists are trying to develop vaccines that target bits of the virus that appear to stay constant, like the stem of the hemagglutinin spike that lets the virus break into lung cells.

During the 2009 swine flu pandemic, many elderly Americans had natural protection, presumably from flus they caught in the 1930s or ’40s.

“Think about that,” Dr. Osterholm said. “Even though they were old, they were still protected. We’ve got to figure out how to capture that kind of immunity — which current vaccines do not.”

At Friday’s news conference, Dr. Bresee acknowledged the difficulties, saying: “If I had the perfect answer as to how to make a better flu vaccine, I’d probably get a Nobel Prize.”
232 2013-01-12 The site offers some basic financial advice, gives away free templates for a master checklist and provides starter forms to draft a will, living will and power of attorney. There’s also a guide to starting a list of all of the accounts in your life that someone might need to access and shut down in your absence.

All of these forms and lists are already out there on the Web in various places, though rarely in one place. But there are two things that make Ms. Reynolds’s effort decidedly different.

First, the world of personal finance suffers from an odd sort of organizational failure. We tend to organize our thinking around products: retirement accounts, mortgages, long-term care insurance.

But in the real world, it’s a big life event that often governs our hunt for solutions. Sometimes, it’s a happy one, like getting married. But there are few ready-made tool kits like the one Ms. Reynolds has assembled for people considering the possibility of serious illness or death.

The other thing that compelled me to sprint here right after I stumbled across her site Tuesday night was that it is not neutered, stripped of the mess of feelings that govern much of what we do with our money. Sometimes, we just need to meet the person in personal finance.

Maybe, just maybe, hearing the story of someone who has been there, in the worst possible way, can finally push us all into action.

And we desperately need to act. According to a survey that the legal services site Rocket Lawyer conducted in 2011, 57 percent of adults in the United States do not have a will. Of those 45 to 64 years of age, a shocking 44 percent still have not gotten it down.

People who get a fatal diagnosis from a doctor at least have a bit of time to sort things out. But Ms. Reynolds and her husband had made only a few plans.

Mr. Hernando was 43 years old on the day in July 2009 when a van mowed him down while making a left turn into the path of his bicycle.

He was a self-taught engineer who played guitar in a band called Moonshine back when Seattle was the world capital of rock. At the time of his death, he rode for a cycling team and was a Flash developer working at the highly regarded firm Frog Design.

Given all that vitality, death was the farthest thing from Ms. Reynolds’s mind when she kissed him goodbye after failing to persuade him to take their son along for the ride. Which was why she was confused when she checked her phone from a party two hours later and found 14 missed calls, none of which were from numbers she recognized.

After his death, this much was clear: The family with the six-figure income and the four-bedroom house that they had bought in the Mount Baker neighborhood one year before had a will with no signature, little emergency savings and an unknown number of accounts with passwords that had been in Mr. Hernando’s head.

What saved Ms. Reynolds, now 42, from ruin was life insurance. They didn’t have a lot, but they had just enough (a couple of hundred thousand dollars in the end) to keep her from having to go right back to work as a freelance project manager and sell the house at a big loss right away. It helped pay for the education of their son, Gabriel, who is now 9, and for Mr. Hernando’s daughter from a previous relationship, Lyric, who is 16 and still close to Ms. Reynolds and her brother. Ms. Reynolds now carries a $1,000,000 term policy on her own life.

So she did not go bankrupt. But the lack of a signed will ended up costing her thousands of dollars in unnecessary legal fees. And then there was the extended period of suspended animation, where she was trying to figure out where she stood with insurance and retirement accounts and phone bills but could not get the information that she needed without account numbers and passwords.

She describes that netherworld as a slow death by a thousand paper cuts. “Sometimes it was the one little, last thing that put me over the edge,” she said.

“I’m trying to figure out how best to take care of my son and when I can go back to work and how much I’ll lose on the house. And if I have to spend 30 minutes following up with some bank that won’t take a check from him, I just don’t have the extra 30 minutes to do this again.”

But she did it again and again, dozens of times, following the same “Hello, my name is Chanel and my husband just died and I need access to X account” script. Once she had enough emotional distance from it all, she created her Web site, where she tries to persuade others to take a couple of hours now to spare themselves countless hours of hardship later.

It’s true that her efforts are not unprecedented. Nolo helped pioneer a do-it-yourself legal movement, and its state-by-state materials are thorough. Several commercial sites can help store and sort your documents and accounts, including organizemyaffairs.com, estatedocsorganizer.com, legacylocker.com, aftersteps.com, thedocsafe.com and safeboxfinancial.com.

There are a few things about Ms. Reynolds’s site that seem unique to me, though. The first is her raw insistence on considering what it means if you’re having trouble finding the right people to serve as your estate’s executor or to inherit prized possessions.

“If you are at a loss for whom to name, get out there and tighten up your friends and family relationships,” she writes on the site. “Find some better friends. Be a better friend. This is everything. This means everything.”

It did for her, at least. “I felt really lucky when I went down my favorites list on my iPhone at the hospital, and everyone showed up,” she said. Hospital staff eventually had to gently inform Ms. Reynolds that her large group of supporters was getting in the way.

She also urges people to leave traces of themselves. This is particularly crucial for parents who fetishize every piece of preschool artwork and capture every meaningful moment but rarely come out from behind the camera themselves.

Forget about just preserving memories of your children for yourself. What about the things that they may need to remember you by?

I asked two lawyers for feedback on Ms. Reynolds’s efforts. Bill Cahill, a lawyer who writes wills for many people who live near me in Brooklyn, said that her legal templates were infinitely better than nothing.

He did lament Ms. Reynolds’s choice of a name for her Web effort. “It seems to me that the whole process deserves more dignity,” he wrote in an e-mail message.

While a private admonition to get it together may well be worthwhile, he added, “the coarseness of the communication is not appropriate for the public square.”

Ms. Reynolds considered this but decided that she needed to be honest. “Those were actually the words that came out of my mouth in the I.C.U.,” she said. “To try to come up with another word to describe something that is part of my own personal experience is too hard to do for me, and it doesn’t, for me, communicate the level of importance and intensity and emotion that comes along with the content.”

Diana S.C. Zeydel, a shareholder at Greenberg Traurig in Miami and chairwoman of the estate and gift tax committee for the American College of Trust and Estate Counsel, applauded Ms. Reynolds’s consciousness-raising efforts.

But she worried that some people who adopted Ms. Reynolds’s sample will (from a template derived from her own Washington State will, which she wrote with the help of a lawyer) as their own could end up worse off than if they had nothing, depending on their circumstances.

It is not surprising that a lawyer would urge you to consult a lawyer, and Ms. Reynolds is not at all opposed to anyone doing so. She also doesn’t accept the idea that anyone even remotely like her and her late husband cannot afford it. “If people can save to go on vacation, they can save to do this, too,” she said.

Ms. Reynolds’s Web site is only four days old as of this writing, and within 24 hours it had been shared over 100 times on Facebook.

She has already heard from a social worker in Santa Fe, N.M., who was near retirement and had not yet pulled her financial records together and a 22-year-old with no children who is now considering a living will.

So already, Ms. Reynolds feels that it’s been worthwhile to share her own experience, if only to help people feel the relief that she now feels because she has her act together.

“It takes way more energy to worry about something than it does to be relieved,” she said.

“It makes a lot more space for joy and gratitude and happiness. And the rest of your life.”
233 2013-01-12 FOR what appears to be the first time ever, information technology companies in the Standard & Poor’s index of 500 stocks are paying more in dividends than companies in any other sector, S.&P. reported this week.

S.&P. Dow Jones Indices reported that in 2012 the technology sector accounted for 14.7 percent of all dividends paid to investors in the 500 companies, up from 10.3 percent in 2011 and from a little over 5 percent back in 2004. It replaced the consumer staples sector, which had been the largest payer of dividends for the previous three years.

The change was largely because of the decision by Apple, now the most valuable company in the world, to begin paying dividends last year. The company had been public for more than three decades before it announced plans in March to begin making payouts. Four other technology companies in the index — all but one of which had been public for more than two decades without paying a dividend — later joined in making payments to shareholders.

With those changes, 60 percent — 42 — of the 70 technology stocks in the index are now dividend payers. The dividends from many technology companies are relatively small, however, and of the other sectors, only health care comes close to having as large a share of companies that do not pay dividends.

But a few years ago, the idea that most technology companies would choose to pay dividends rather than hold profits to be reinvested, would have seemed highly unlikely. In 1999, when the technology stock bubble was nearing an end, companies that paid dividends were generally viewed as boring and growth companies as exciting. Over all, the S.& P. 500 index rose 20 percent that year, but the stocks that paid dividends were up only 4 percent. A portfolio composed only of big companies that did not pay dividends would have risen 90 percent.

The stocks in the S.& P. 500 are generally the largest and most widely held stocks in the country. S.& P. estimates that this year they will pay nearly three-quarters of all dividends paid by American companies. The accompanying chart shows information on the three sectors that have been the largest payers in at least one of the last nine years — and provides a cautionary warning about the risks of buying stocks solely because they pay high dividends.
234 2013-01-12 Stocks gained for a second straight week as companies began releasing earnings reports, keeping the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index within a fraction of its highest level in five years.

The S.& P. 500 was little changed Friday, gaining 5 points during the week to close at 1,472.05. On Thursday, the index was at 1,472.12, its highest level since December 2007.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 17.21 points, to 13,488.43. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.87 to 3,125.63. For the week, the Dow rose 53 points and the Nasdaq rose 24 points.

Companies have started to report earnings for the fourth quarter of 2012, but no clear pattern has emerged as yet. The aluminum company Alcoa gave stocks a lift after it reported earnings late Tuesday that matched analysts’ expectations and said that demand was increasing. Investors were unimpressed by Wells Fargo’s record profits Friday, choosing instead to focus on the sustainability of those earnings.

“You’ve been hearing comments that earnings season is going to show a continued contraction in the rate of growth,” said Robert Pavlik of Banyan Partners. “People are conflicted, they are worried, but at the same time they don’t want to be missing out on the action” in the market.

Analysts expected fourth-quarter earnings for S.& P. 500 companies to grow by 3.3 percent, according to the latest data from S&P Capital IQ. That was a better growth rate than the previous quarter, but it was considerably weaker than the 8.4 percent rate in the same period last year.
235 2013-01-12 The battery, which powers the auxiliary power unit used when the plane is on the ground, sustained “severe fire damage,” according to the safety board. It took firefighters 40 minutes to extinguish the blaze, the board said. One firefighter was injured.

The F.A.A. review will not require the grounding of the 787 fleet, officials said. Boeing has delivered 50 of the airplanes since the first commercial flight in November 2011 and has received orders for more than 800.

Eight airlines now fly the 787: All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines in Japan, Air India, Ethiopian Airlines, Chile’s LAN Airlines, Poland’s LOT, Qatar Airways and United Airlines.

Boeing has much riding on the 787, which makes extensive use of lightweight carbon composites and packs more electrical systems than older planes. The company’s chairman, Jim McNerney, said on Friday that it was “100 percent behind the integrity of the 787.” The 787 is the first new airplane to be certified in the United States since the Boeing 777 in 1995.

“Every new commercial airplane has issues when it enters service,” said Raymond L. Conner, the head of Boeing’s commercial airplane division. Boeing will work closely with the F.A.A. during the review, he said.

It is uncommon for the F.A.A. to open a review of an airplane it has already certified, but the action on Friday pointed to increased concern by regulators.

The 787 relies more on electronics than previous generations of airplanes. Electrical systems, not mechanical ones, operate hydraulic pumps, de-ice the wings, pressurize the cabin and handle other tasks. The plane also has electric brakes instead of hydraulic ones.

This electric architecture helps cut energy consumption and makes the aircraft more efficient to operate. But by making such extensive use of electrical systems, Boeing introduced a higher level of complexity in the production of the plane, contributing to more than three years of delays.

Since much was new with the airplane, the F.A.A. and Boeing developed new certification standards. The agency also granted Boeing the authority to self-certify some of its work. Mr. Huerta defended that approach on Friday, saying the process had been rigorous.

Still, he said, the “the focus will be on validating the work done in the certification process and ensuring certification standards set are being met in the manufacturing process.”

“There is nothing in the data that suggests the plane is not safe,” he added.

With the focus on the 787’s problems, every episode, however small, is drawing oversize attention, hurting Boeing’s reputation and potentially hurting the public’s confidence in the airplane. Boeing stock has fallen this week after the string of highly scrutinized events. On Friday, shares fell 2.5 percent, to close at $75.16.

Earlier on Friday, All Nippon Airways of Japan reported cracks in the cockpit window of a 787 Dreamliner heading from Tokyo to Matsuyama, the third time that cracks had appeared in the windshield of one of the 17 787s operated by the airline.

The cracks were on the outermost of five layers that compose the cockpit windshield and did not endanger the aircraft, said Megumi Tezuka, a company spokeswoman.

Moreover, she said, cracks of this kind are not unique to the 787 Dreamliner; cracks have appeared in other aircraft types operated by All Nippon from time to time.

“We do not see this as a sign of a fundamental problem” with the aircraft, Ms. Tezuka said.

In a move to quell the damage to the plane’s reputation, Boeing on Wednesday defended its program and said it stood by its engineering and design choices, including the use of lithium-ion batteries like the one that apparently caught fire.

Boeing pointed out that the plane has multiple layers of redundant systems and emphasized that any new plane program had snags in its first few years of production.

So far, airlines that operate the plane have stood by Boeing. After years of waiting for the plane because of production delays, airlines have been eager to fly an airplane that promises significant fuel savings.

This week’s events followed incidents with the plane last month. In December, the F.A.A. ordered inspections of fuel line connectors on all 787s, warning of a risk of fuel leaks and fires. That same day, a United Airlines 787 flying from Houston to Newark was diverted to New Orleans after one of its six electric generators failed midflight.

Boeing said this week that those problems were not related to the fire incident in Boston. It traced the problem on the United flight to a defective electric panel. It added that the 787 proved during testing that it could fly for more than five hours with just one of its six electrical generators.

Some safety experts agreed that the problems with the 787 pointed more to teething problems than structural faults. But the issues are still an embarrassment for Boeing’s flagship program. The plane maker has said it expects to sell 5,000 787s in the next 20 years.

In a separate matter, Japan Airlines said that an incident on Tuesday involving a fuel leak on a 787 was because one of four fuel valves connecting two tanks had been left open. This caused fuel to flow into a surge tank near the wing tip and out a vent. The plane was towed back to its gate but eventually left Boston for Tokyo after a delay of nearly four hours.
236 2013-01-12 “I still think you’re going to have to beat two of those guys at least to win a major, so the equation is still the same,” said Roger Rasheed, the veteran Australian coach now working with one of the other leading outsiders: Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.

“Does Rafa being out help anyone think, ‘Well now is my chance’? I guess it depends a bit on the work you’ve done. We’re in a climate now where you just can’t fluke any results. No one is going to fluke a Grand Slam or a Masters Series unless we get some major upsets throughout the course of it and right now you just can’t see where that’s coming from.”

Nor is it easy, with Serena Williams fresh off her latest bravura performance in Brisbane, to see any outsider staging a meaningful uprising in the women’s tournament in Melbourne.

“I think you can only go by what we saw last season, and I think motivated is the key word for Serena,” said Chris Evert, an ESPN analyst and 18-time Grand Slam singles champion, in an interview. “If Serena’s motivated, she’s going to be fit and going to train harder and going to be focused. So the motivation factor is the one factor that has kind of gone up and down with her during her career, because quite frankly she has such a zest for life that she had other interests and she hasn’t been as tunnel-visioned as probably champions are. But now, I think, she realizes.

“She realizes she’s older and doesn’t have a lot of time. So I think she’s eyeing the number of Grand Slams and eyeing history, and I think she has in her mind that she has two or three vintage years left in her.”

In 2006, Evert wrote Williams an open letter in which she counseled Williams during a difficult phase of her career to concentrate on her core mission.

“I wonder whether 20 years from now you might reflect on your career and regret not putting 100 percent of yourself into tennis,” Evert wrote then. “Because whether you want to admit it or not, these distractions are tarnishing your legacy.”

Evert concluded the letter with this: “Just remember that you have in front of you an opportunity of the rarest kind: to become the greatest ever at something. I hope you make the most of it.”

So how — Evert was asked this week — is Williams doing now?

Evert laughed. “Well I think she’s on the course,” Evert said. “She’s definitely in the last couple years been on the course, and again she’s had some things happen to her that I think would make anybody more appreciative of coming back and playing the game and being healthy again. I think she’s definitely more focused.”

Relative greatness can be tricky to define across tennis eras. The game is more global now; power and athleticism more constant. There is also ever-more emphasis on the Grand Slams, which means their fields are loaded as a matter of course.

Margaret Court, who holds the all-time record for Grand Slam singles titles with 24, won 11 of them in Australia when many of the world’s best did not routinely make the long journey.

Steffi Graf ranks second with 22 titles, followed by Helen Wills Moody with 19; Evert and her friendly rival Martina Navratilova with 18 and then Williams with 15.

A true Grand Slam — winning all four tournaments in the same calendar year — would close those gaps in a hurry, but it remains a long shot for Williams, who has not won the French Open since 2002 and who has been prone to unexpected episodes of extreme tightness when she pirouettes, fingers splayed after errors, and her timing escapes her.

Exhibit A from 2012: her shock first-round defeat by Virginie Razzano in Paris.

“She comes up with one, two or three a year where the top 200 players could beat her,” said Evert, who nonetheless, thinks Williams can still win in Paris.

“Look,” Evert said. “If Maria Sharapova can win the French, Serena Williams can win the French, and I don’t mean that in any bad way toward Maria. But Maria learned to play on clay properly and she worked at it, and she committed herself and she really worked on her movement and her patience, and Serena can do the same.”

Williams is No.3 in the rankings, behind No.1 Victoria Azarenka, the defending Australian Open champion, and No.2 Sharapova. Williams will be in Azarenka’s half of the draw at the Australian Open.

But there is no doubt about the leading player of the moment.

“When I’m commentating a match and Serena is walking out with Sharapova or Serena is walking on with Azarenka, it’s all about Serena,” Evert said. “I used to hate it when Martina used to play me and she would say, ‘Well I either win the match or I lose the match.’

“I used to be defensive and say, ‘What are you talking about?’ I took offense to that, but you’ve got to say it with Serena. It’s hard to beat her when she’s 80 to 100 percent.”

This will be the first Grand Slam tournament since the second and presumably final retirement of Kim Clijsters. Though Andy Roddick is still listed in the rankings (he is at No.39 this week), this will also be the first major since Roddick retired last year.

The American women appear to be back on the rise with 10 players in the top 100. Sloane Stephens, 19, is seeded for the first time in a Grand Slam tournament (at 29th), and Madison Keys, 17, is now pushing her elders in earnest after improving her fitness and consistency to complement her powerful serve and forehand. In all, there are 10 American women in the top 100, more than any other nation except Russia, which also has 10.

But with John Isner’s withdrawal because of a knee injury and Mardy Fish’s ongoing recovery from health concerns related to an accelerated heartbeat, the United States has just one player in the men’s draw ranked in the top 50. That is the 22nd-ranked Sam Querrey.

But the big absentee in Melbourne remains Nadal, the swashbuckling Spaniard with the fragile knees who lost to Djokovic last year in the marathon final here and is not expected to add himself back into the mix until next month and the clay-court swing in Latin America.
237 2013-01-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
238 2013-01-13 The Spanish-language media company's new unit will create promotional content for its broadcast, radio and digital properties, and provide research and services for internal and external clients....
239 2013-01-13 The Italian design house held its show despite the disappearance of its chief executive whose plane disappeared more than a week ago after takeoff from the Los Roques archipelago, off the coast of Venezuela....
240 2013-01-13 Owners' suggestions figured into many of the changes for the electric car....
241 2013-01-13 If you ever want another confirmation that we have little power to keep our children safe, have your child walk into the house shaking with emotion and blood on his clothes....
242 2013-01-13 The Minnesota Vikings’ 2,000-yard rusher, Adrian Peterson, and Houston Texans defensive end J. J. Watt were unanimous choices for the Associated Press All-Pro team, announced Saturday.

All 50 members of a nationwide panel of news media members selected Peterson, who was 9 yards from breaking Eric Dickerson’s single-season rushing record, and Watt, who led the N.F.L. with 20 ½ sacks. Peterson is a three-time All-Pro; Watt, a second-year player, is among 17 players who made the team for the first time.

Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning made his sixth team; the previous five were with Indianapolis. Also chosen for the sixth time was Atlanta tight end Tony Gonzalez, who this season moved into second place on the career receptions list.

¶ The Kansas City Chiefs have hired John Dorsey, the Packers’ director of football operations, to replace the fired Scott Pioli as their general manager. Dorsey helped build Green Bay into a perennial contender as the team’s director of college scouting.

¶ Notre Dame Coach Brian Kelly will be back for a fourth season after leading the Fighting Irish to the Bowl Championship Series title game. Kelly issued a statement saying that after interviewing with the Philadelphia Eagles, he would remain as the coach of the Irish.

¶ The Indianapolis Colts special-teams coordinator Marwan Maalouf will not be back on Coach Chuck Pagano’s staff next season. The team said Maalouf and the Colts mutually agreed to part ways. In Maalouf’s one season with the Colts, punter Pat McAfee averaged 48.2 yards a punt, and the punt and kickoff coverage units improved. (AP)
243 2013-01-13 In an interview last week, Mr. Wood, who is also the author of “Taxation of Damage Awards and Settlement Payments,” said the test for deductibility boils down to whether the payment is a penalty or is meant to be remedial. “I don’t know the specifics on these mortgage settlements,” he said, “but if any of the lenders are putting a bunch of money into a pot that goes to help people, yes, I would assume that everybody will deduct that.”

Nevertheless, the deductibility test is not always clear. And companies naturally push hard for these tax benefits when they negotiate settlements with the government.

Unfortunately, the government rarely specifies what the tax treatment of a settlement should be, leaving enforcement to the Internal Revenue Service. One exception is the Securities and Exchange Commission. Since 2003, it has barred companies from deducting settlement costs as a business expense.

Senator Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, has been critical of favorable tax treatments of settlements. I asked him last week about the issue as it relates to mortgage settlements.

“You can be sure the Wall Street banks consider tax consequences in negotiations and the government should, too,” he said.  “Any portion of a settlement that’s intended to be a penalty should include language clarifying it isn’t deductible. Otherwise, the government’s punishment will have less sting than intended.”

IT is to be expected that corporations, like any taxpayers, will do what they can to reduce their tax bills. And a 2005 report from the Government Accountability Office suggests that tax benefits in settlements are prevalent. Examining more than $1 billion in settlements made by 34 companies, the G.A.O. found that 20 had deducted some or all of the money from their tax bills.

But as Mr. Grassley suggested, the government can take deductibility off the table as an option. And occasionally it does. For example, a Justice Department spokesman said that there would be no deductibility of the $500 million penalty and fine portion of the settlement reached with UBS last month in regards to manipulation of interest rates.

Certainly, a settlement’s punitive effect is lessened by any tax sweeteners it generates. Perhaps that’s why it is rarely clear from the public announcements that some or all of the settlement amounts will be deductible.

Consider last week’s settlement between the government and large mortgage servicers over foreclosure abuses. Wells Fargo said in its news release that the bank would pay $766 million in cash and contribute $1.2 billion to foreclosure-prevention activities. But are those after-tax or pretax numbers? No mention was made, and a spokeswoman declined to comment other than to say that Wells Fargo “is a compliant taxpayer” that fulfills all its tax obligations.

Or consider the recent settlements over soured mortgages reached by Bank of America and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These are almost certainly tax-deductible, Mr. Wood said, because these are probably considered deals between private parties, even though taxpayers own Fannie and Freddie.

So the deal announced last week by Bank of America to pay Fannie Mae $10.3 billion for a mortgage-related settlement, as well as the $2.62 billion in cash paid by the bank to Fannie and Freddie Mac in late 2010, probably generated, or will generate, significant tax benefits through deductions for the bank. A Bank of America spokesman declined to comment.

Phineas Baxandall, senior analyst for tax and budget policy at the United States Public Interest Research Group, a consumer-oriented nonprofit, and Ryan Pierannunzi, a tax and budget associate there, explored this issue in a report published last week.

The report, titled “Subsidizing Bad Behavior,” details the history of the practice and suggests that government agencies should follow the S.E.C.’s lead and disallow deductibility in settlements. Barring that, the authors said, regulators should disclose only the after-tax amounts of settlements, so that people understand how much money is really being paid.

In an interview last week, Mr. Baxandall noted that government agencies might not want to do that. “From the agencies’ point of view, unless the public or someone is pressuring them to do otherwise, they want a big number to tout,” he said. “Tax deductibility allows them to come out with a bigger number.”

CONGRESS has tried to change this setup. In 2003, Mr. Grassley and two other senators introduced the Government Settlement Transparency Act.

It would have required that payments made by companies acknowledging actual or potential violations of a law would not be tax-deductible. The legislation never passed.

Bills have also been introduced in Congress that would bar deductibility on punitive damage awards arranged among private parties. Those have died, too. Past administrations have supported this idea, and the Obama administration has a proposal in its 2013 budget stating that no deduction would be allowed in such a circumstance. That proposal also states that when an existing insurance policy covered the payment of punitive damages, the amount paid would be considered income to the insured person.

As settlements for corporate misdeeds pile up, perhaps it will get some traction.
244 2013-01-13 Someone who is more adventurous, or more sensitive to changing market conditions, might look at core-plus funds, he said. Although these vehicles keep a large majority of their assets in stocks and bonds, they also invest in alternatives like commodities, real estate investment trusts or hedge fund strategies. Depending on how they invest, Morningstar will classify them as “conservative allocation,” “moderate allocation,” “aggressive allocation” or “world allocation” funds, all niches in the balanced-fund category.

Rob Arnott, chairman and chief executive of the investment advisory service Research Affiliates, is among those who say it’s time to branch out from conventional funds. He tells investors that they “urgently need to build a third pillar.”

In Mr. Arnott’s opinion, an investment in alternatives is wise in the interest of diversification and risk reduction, but if inflation flares up down the road, as he expects, it would worsen the outlook for stocks and bonds enough to warrant particularly large allocations elsewhere.

“Stocks and bonds are going to be a big mistake for years,” he said. “Do yourself the favor of building a modest third pillar that can protect you” against inflation.

Bonds perform poorly in an inflationary environment, something that Mr. Arnott expects as a result of very loose monetary policy, he explained, and valuations on stocks fall because inflation generally sends interest rates higher.

The drawback to expanding beyond the two main classes now is that alternative assets have joined them in the mainstream, said Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic Capital, a financial planning firm in Morristown, N.J. Many investors have been buying such alternatives to the point that they may have become overvalued.

“With bond yields at all-time lows, investors are looking elsewhere for yield,” Mr. Cordaro said. “They’re pouring money into REITs, commodities and hedge funds. This is not the time to get too fancy. I think investors are taking on a huge amount of risk and not realizing it.”

One evergreen risk of owning any balanced fund stems from the difficulty of knowing what it contains. One portfolio that holds only stocks and bonds might be limited to blue chips and investment-grade bond issues, said Mr. Ratner, the Morningstar strategist, while another might reach into emerging markets, small-company stocks and high-yield corporate debt. When a portfolio starts adding alternative assets, the complexity only climbs from there.

The mix might include some holdings that investors would prefer to avoid, advisers say, but because managers report holdings only intermittently, shareholders don’t always know what’s coming or going from their funds.

Then there is the matter of management quality. An investor who buys a balanced fund, other than one that passively tracks stock and bond indexes, is placing faith in a manager’s ability to be a jack-of-all-trades — or at least a jack-of-two-trades.

“I’m generally not a big fan of balanced funds because I like to control the mix,” said Kent Kramer, a partner of the Foster Group, a financial planning firm in West Des Moines, Iowa.

He would rather own separate portfolios to gain exposure to various kinds of stocks and bonds.

“The vast majority of investors are going to have a better experience and probably with a lot less cost” with a more limited mix of assets, he said. “ ‘Souped up’ sometimes really means more expensive, and I don’t know if you’re getting bang for the buck.”

He advises investors who are interested in balanced funds to start the search with Vanguard, a fund provider known for low expenses. “With Vanguard, you get a good explanation of the fees, and the fees are low,” he said.

The Vanguard Balanced Index fund seeks to replicate the MSCI U.S. Broad Market Index of stocks and the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Float Adjusted Index of bonds in the traditional 60-40 ratio. It has annual expenses of 0.24 percent and gets four stars from Morningstar and a gold rating in the firm’s more subjective analyst rating system.

Core-plus funds favored by Morningstar analysts include T. Rowe Price Capital Appreciation and Leuthold Core Investment. The Price fund, which gets five stars and a gold rating, the highest on both scales, holds domestic and foreign stocks and conventional bonds, along with convertible bonds, preferred stocks and leveraged loans. The Leuthold fund, with four stars and a silver rating, likewise owns domestic and foreign stocks and bonds, as well as REITs and gold.

MR. RATNER encourages investors in balanced funds to consider buying not just one, but rather a handful of them, and to make sure that each holds assets in different proportions, even if the assets are just stocks and bonds. If they seek funds whose managers prefer more assets or more trading among them, he added, they should remember that more doesn’t necessarily mean better.

“Investors need to make sure that they’re comfortable with these additional risks,” he said, “and that the managers can add value.”
245 2013-01-13 One bit of uncertainty was eliminated on Jan. 1, when Congress agreed to limit the scope of scheduled tax increases, although the deal still resulted in higher tax rates on payrolls, dividends and capital gains.

Worries also abated when European Union finance ministers agreed in the fourth quarter to place big banks under the supervision of the European Central Bank. That followed the bank’s announcement that it would support the bond markets of weaker economies, which are concentrated along the region’s southern periphery.

THE moves on both sides of the Atlantic helped stock funds achieve modest fourth-quarter gains. The average domestic fund in Morningstar’s database rose 0.9 percent. International funds fared better, up 4.8 percent, on average, with portfolios that focus on European stocks returning 7.4 percent and emerging-market funds rising 6.2 percent. Full-year returns exceeded 14 percent for all four categories.

Yields on short- and long-term debt remained low all year as the Federal Reserve and other central banks maintained the easy monetary policies in force since the 2008 crisis. While that could account for much of stocks’ strength during 2012, the influence on bond returns, at least on high-quality government issues, may be waning.

The average bond fund rose a healthy 8.4 percent on the year, but the fourth-quarter gain was a slim 1.3 percent, dragged lower by a 1.1 percent loss for portfolios of long-term government bonds. High-yield bond funds rose 3.1 percent for the quarter, on average, and funds that specialize in debt issued in emerging economies gained 3.9 percent.

Just how helpful low interest rates were for economic growth is hard to discern. American economic output has continued to expand at a sluggish pace. And Europe is widely seen to be in recession.

“The trend of deterioration in Europe is not slowing down,” said Virginie Maisonneuve, head of global and international equities at Schroder Investment Management. She noted, though, that some indicators suggested that conditions were stabilizing at very low levels along the continent’s troubled southern fringe.

Whatever the economic impact of low interest rates, they seem to be helping corporate America. Corporate debt issuance last year exceeded $1 trillion for the first time.

Increased indebtedness provides leverage that lifts profit margins, said Jeremy Grantham, chief investment strategist of the fund management company GMO. Margins have reached record levels as a proportion of economic output and are “weirdly high,” in his opinion, “unless we’re in one of those wonderful secular shifts that people talk about but almost never see.” He doesn’t glimpse any such new normal, however, and cites high margins as a reason to be cautious about most stocks.

Rising debt of another kind is a pressing concern for many investors. With the national debt above $16 trillion, the second part of the fiscal cliff debate, focusing on spending cuts, is expected to be played out over the next month or so in Washington.

This could have higher stakes for the economy and markets and cause more acrimony than the haggling over tax rates. That’s because the debt ceiling — the limit imposed by Congress on the government’s borrowing authority — has been reached again. The concern is that Republicans will withhold approval to raise the ceiling without meaningful spending cuts. A similar battle in 2011 led to a downgrade of Treasury debt and was the catalyst for a violent stock market decline.

“We know there’s going to be another fight around the debt ceiling in February,” said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist for Citigroup. “We avoided plummeting off the cliff, but we haven’t avoided more cliffs in the future.”

THE immediate outlook for financial markets depends on how the next cliff is navigated. An overhaul of programs like Social Security and Medicare, combined with a revamping of the tax code in a so-called grand bargain, would set spending on a gentler slope for the long term without abrupt cuts now, investment advisers said. But some, like Mr. DeGroot, were not holding their breath.

“We have to have a credible medium- to long-term plan to bring down the excess of spending over revenues, but politicians are usually not ones to make those tough decisions until they’re forced to,” he said. “It usually takes a market disruption to force their hand. Kicking the can is an easier, less painful approach. At some point, do investors say they don’t see a resolution to this?”

Mr. DeGroot finds little to recommend to investors, though he does see opportunity in foreign stocks, particularly in emerging economies. Better still, he said, are so-called unconstrained bond funds whose managers have great flexibility in how they invest.

Mr. Grantham also finds emerging stock markets appealing, along with Japan and “cheap European value stocks,” and he advises longer-term investors to consider commodity and energy stocks. As for the United States, he judges the market overvalued and recommends only high-quality companies.

Sometimes, all it takes to do better is to avoid doing worse. Ms. Maisonneuve said investors in Europe, for example, had begun to recognize that if the region “is leaving behind its near-death experience, then equity valuations are very attractive, compared to fixed income.” A recovery in Chinese and American growth could help Europe “continue to heal itself,” she added.

As for sectors, she particularly favors global health care, which can profit from drug sales to emerging economies, and cyclical industrial companies and commodity providers that would benefit from resurgent Chinese growth. She also likes financial service companies but is avoiding European banks.

Investors fixated last year on so-called tail risks, or potential negative surprises. But what if 2013 offered some head risks? Such positive surprises wouldn’t faze Francis Scotland, director of global macro research at Brandywine Global.

“I think people are looking in the wrong direction,” Mr. Scotland said. “There is a risk that something might actually go right. I think we’re in a sweet spot. Let’s assume we take most of the sting out of the fiscal cliff. Just the clarity will improve the corporate sector outlook. There’s a real case for the economy to grow above trend in the first half. It’s time to move to a more risk-oriented strategy.”

While he is happy to advocate for the American economy and likes domestic market sectors like consumer discretionary and financial services, Mr. Scotland prefers to take risks elsewhere. He recommends bonds in peripheral European countries like Italy and Ireland; investment-grade emerging bond markets like Mexico, Poland and South Africa; and Japanese, Chinese and European stocks.

“You could make a case for all of these markets doing well, relative to the U.S.,” he said.

MR. LEVKOVICH makes the case for American stocks doing well. He says he expects the S. &P. 500 to rise 13 percent this year, to 1,615. He agrees with Mr. Scotland that “there’s a bunch of good news out there.”

“Housing has improved, and job trends should improve based on surveys and credit growth,” Mr. Levkovich said. “There’s an energy boom in places like Montana and South Dakota that is growing more jobs, and manufacturing competitiveness is developing in this country; it’s cheaper to build a plant and produce goods in South Carolina than in Shenzhen.”

Even though he is hopeful about 2013, Mr. Levkovich acknowledged that investors might want to wait until Washington produced a deal that averts the next fiscal cliff before they focus on the more pleasant landscape beyond it.

“We’ve got this positive dynamic,” he said. “The biggest constraint we’re facing is the fiscal issue and dysfunctional government.”
246 2013-01-13 Before leaving for cancer surgery in Havana in early December, Mr. Chávez designated Mr. Maduro as his political heir and said that he wanted him to run for president if a special election became necessary.

It is not unusual for Venezuelan officials to threaten or lash out at the opposition, which they routinely characterize as an enemy bent on overthrowing Mr. Chávez’s revolution. But recently, amid a debate over the constitutionality of postponing the president’s swearing in, the tone has gotten harsher.

Later on Thursday, Mr. Capriles posted a reply on Twitter saying, “Threats from No. 2s make us laugh, let’s see if starting tomorrow they get back to work, Government in paralysis.”

Mr. Capriles added in another post: “What do you know, they didn’t let Al Capone speak, what happened?”

Vladimir Villegas, a former ambassador who is now critical of the government, said that in Mr. Chávez’s absence, Mr. Maduro and other officials were using the clash with the opposition to promote unity among their followers.

“They can’t live without an enemy,” Mr. Villegas said. “The confrontation with the opposition holds them together.”

The vice president is appointed by the president, and some in the opposition have argued that Mr. Maduro cannot continue to serve in the new term without being reappointed by Mr. Chávez. But the Supreme Court ruled that Mr. Maduro and other appointees could continue in their posts.

Mr. Capriles has pointed out that although Mr. Maduro is now at the head of the government, he is not an elected official.

“He was not elected Oct. 7,” Mr. Capriles said last week, referring to the recent presidential election. “He shouldn’t come and talk to us about legitimacy.”

The front page of the newspaper Tal Cual on Friday showed a caricature of Mr. Maduro with the headline: “The Usurper.” Another newspaper opposed to the government, El Nacional, ran a front-page headline that said: “The new term starts with legality questioned.”

On Thursday, Mr. Maduro also said the government had uncovered a plot to destabilize the country, although he offered no evidence and was vague in his description of the conspiracy.

“There is a plan by sectors of the ultraright to find a cadaver, two cadavers and fill the streets of Venezuela with protests,” he said, adding that the opposition was planning “a kind of sabotage and constant fires in the cities.”

“We alerted all the police security forces to be very careful of their actions because they are looking to stain the political life” of the country, Mr. Maduro said.

Also last week, the government said it was starting an administrative proceeding against Globovisión, a television station allied with the opposition, over its coverage of the constitutional controversy around Mr. Chávez’s swearing-in. The proceeding could result in a large fine or the temporary shutdown of the station.

The National Telecommunications Commission announced the proceeding on Wednesday, several hours after Diosdado Cabello, president of the National Assembly and a top Chávez ally, said in a speech that the station should be sanctioned for its coverage of the issue.

The director of the commission, Pedro Maldonado, said punishment could include a fine of up to 10 percent of the station’s gross revenue and a 72-hour shutdown.

Globovisión paid a fine of about $2.2 million last year for its coverage of a deadly prison riot in 2010. The government said its reporting threatened public order and fomented anxiety.

On Friday, Globovisión ran a short spot several times showing a section of the Constitution that defends free speech followed by Mr. Maldonado announcing the proceeding against the station. It ends with the words, “Censorship of the Constitution.”

Mr. Chávez has not been seen or heard from since his cancer surgery on Dec. 11 in Havana. Officials have said that he is fighting a severe lung infection. In past trips to Cuba for cancer treatment, starting in June 2011, Mr. Chávez stayed in the public eye, posting on Twitter, making phone calls to government-run television stations and on one occasion conducting a televised government meeting from Cuba.

Mr. Chávez’s brother, Adán, the governor of Barinas State, said after returning from a visit to Cuba that the president was advancing in his recovery, according to a statement posted on his office’s Web site. It added that rumors that the president was in a coma were “totally false.”
247 2013-01-13 The Rangers will open the season Saturday night against the Bruins in Boston, with their home opener coming the next night against the Pittsburgh Penguins.

The Islanders and the Devils open their schedules with a game against each other Saturday night at Nassau Coliseum.

All clubs will play their four divisional opponents four or five times, and will face the other 10 clubs in their conference three times each.

The Rangers will play Pittsburgh and Philadelphia five times each and the Islanders and Devils four times each, a total of 18 games against Atlantic Division opponents. The Rangers will play the other 10 teams in the Eastern Conference three times apiece.

The Rangers’ regular season ends on April 27 with a game at Madison Square Garden against the Devils. However, 16 of the Rangers’ final 25 games will be on the road.

N.H.L. players have been skating at team rinks since Monday, but until the agreement had been signed, coaches were not permitted at practices, leaving the players to run things.

Shortly after the deal was complete, the Rangers said they would hold a noon practice at their training rink in Greenburgh, N.Y.

Teams will have only six days of training camp, with no exhibition games, before the condensed regular season begins.

Other league business will also resume, including trades and contract signings.

The lockout resulted in the cancellation of 510 games. It was the third lockout since Gary Bettman became the commissioner in 1993.

The three stoppages have resulted in the cancellation of 2,208 regular-season games, about 10 percent of regular-season games scheduled during Bettman’s tenure.

The 2012-13 season will begin with three matinee games Saturday.

Ottawa will play Winnipeg at 3 p.m. Eastern, on CBC. Also at 3 p.m., Pittsburgh will play at Philadelphia and Chicago will visit Los Angeles, in a regional broadcast on NBC. The Toronto Maple Leafs will open against the Canadiens in Montreal, in the kickoff to CBC’s “Hockey Night in Canada.” The Leafs and Canadiens will also close the season against one another, in Toronto on April 27.

It has been some seven months since the Kings won the Stanley Cup at Staples Center on June 11, 2012, the last time an N.H.L. game was played. On Saturday, they will raise their championship banner.
248 2013-01-13 The GL350, powered by an awesome 3-liter diesel V-6, is the first rung in the redesigned GL lineup. I submit that you need not climb any higher. Above the GL350 lie the GL450 (362 horsepower), the GL550 (429 horsepower) and the GL63 AMG (550 horsepower), all of which are powered by twin-turbocharged gasoline V-8s. In the company of those brutes, the GL350’s mere 240 horsepower might sound inadequate, but the Mercedes diesel punches above its weight.

Last summer I drove a 25-foot Winnebago fitted with a less powerful version of this motor; with a boat in tow it easily hauled 14,000 pounds’ worth of family vacation down the highway. Installed in the 5,467-pound GL350, the V-6 delivers relentlessly strong acceleration and managed better than 26 miles per gallon en route to my off-road adventures.

The official federal fuel economy estimate is 18 m.p.g. in the city and 24 on the highway. For comparison, the GL550’s overall combined rating is 15 m.p.g.

Despite its rank as the entry-level GL, you’re welcome to stuff the GL350 with nearly all of the options available on the fancier models. It’s worth noting that you could buy a whole other Mercedes, a C250 Sport Sedan ($36,255), for less than the cost of the options on the GL350 that I tested. Of that $36,535 in tasty extras, I could probably live without the auburn-brown Designo interior ($4,300), the diamond white paint ($1,515), the Bang & Olufsen sound system ($6,800) and the rear-seat entertainment system ($1,950).

I could even suffer, like some medieval oxcart driver, without the massage seats ($1,100). But there is one option you absolutely want, and no, it’s not the faux-leather lower dashboard (though, for $300, why not?).

The Active Curve System costs $2,900 extra, and it magically mitigates the thorniest challenge of an S.U.V.’s suspension tuning: head toss. That’s the unpleasant lateral whiplash you feel when your vehicle’s body rights itself after a corner or bump. The phenomenon tends to be worse in S.U.V.’s than in cars because of the higher seating position — the sailor up in the crow’s nest is going to feel the heaves of the swells more than the seaman swabbing the deck.

The Active Curve System replaces mechanical antiroll bars with a hydraulic system that quells body roll without requiring a punishingly stiff suspension. The spookily smooth ride recalls that of the McLaren 12C, which also relies on hydraulics instead of steel antiroll bars. All the system needs is a better name so that customers don’t confuse it with Active Curve Illumination, which is a separate option involving the headlights. I propose CornerSlayer 5000.

As fine as the GL is to drive, its many electronic assistants preview a world in which driving is a passive endeavor interrupted only occasionally by some malfunction in the matrix that requires human intervention. Active Blind Spot Assist can apply the brakes to nudge you away from an adjacent car you’re about to punt off your rear quarter-panel. Active Lane Keeping Assist relies on the same technique to keep you from drifting into the next lane.

Active Parking Assist does just what it sounds like, taking over steering chores when you’re parallel-parking. Distronic Plus cruise control will hit the brakes if its sensors decide you’re about to rear-end the car in front of you, and Collision Prevention Assist uses a dedicated radar sensor to warn of immovable objects and prepare the brakes for a panic stop.

Finally, between speeds of 50 and 112 m.p.h., Attention Assist monitors your steering movements and sets off a warning if it suspects you’re getting drowsy. Evidently, 113 m.p.h. is the threshold where Mercedes presumes — hopes? — that you’re fully sentient.

There is good news for those troglodytes who still enjoy taking the tiller of their own automobile, in that most of the GL’s robo-driving assistants are optional. So if you can park for yourself, for instance, you’ll help to avoid the biggest peril of GL shopping, which is that overindulgence in the options list will cause you to faint like a Victorian spinster when you see the final sticker price.

At, say, $80,000, the GL is a lot of German 4-by-4 for the money. At a six-figure price, though, I might seriously start pondering whether I could live with the Klingon-battleship styling of an Infiniti QX56, which is also big and plush but costs less than $80,000 with all the trimmings.

However, neither QX56 nor the new Range Rover offers a diesel. The GL350 is a unique beast, offering vanlike capaciousness and fuel economy along with an interior worthy of the S-Class and a helping of legitimate old-school S.U.V. abilities. The GL may not have set a record time around the Uwharrie off-road course, but I guarantee that none of the other drivers crossed the finish line while getting a massage from their seats.
249 2013-01-13 Abdo figured that federal employment would remain relatively stable, even in recessions. The continued opening of Metro stations would also allow for transit-driven development. And of course, there was that tremendous urban fabric — the brick row houses that make up the bulk of the housing in the city’s center, from Georgetown in the west to Anacostia in the southeast, and give it some of its genteel European feel. Abdo’s timing, it turned out, couldn’t have been better. Billions in federal spending, largely a result of two foreign wars, were pouring into the local economy by the early 2000s. Then came the housing bubble. But after it burst, a remarkable inversion occurred: as the country withered, Washington bloomed. Since 2007, the regional economy has expanded about three times as much as the overall country’s. By some measures, the Washington area has become the richest region in the country. It is now home to the three highest-income counties in the United States, and seven out of the Top 10.

The growth has arrived in something like concentric circles. Increased government spending has bumped up the region’s human capital, drawing other businesses, from technology to medicine to hospitality. Restaurants and bars and yoga studios have cropped up to feed and clothe and stretch all those workers, and people like Jim Abdo have been there to provide the population — which grew by 650,000 between 2000 and 2010 — with two-bedrooms with Wolf ranges.

During our drive, Abdo narrated this revival with such intensity that he took a few wrong turns, despite the fact that downtown is just a grid dotted with traffic circles. Near the campus, he pointed out a cheap hotel that he plans to turn into a pod hotel. Over by H Street, a neighborhood just a few years ago virtually untouched by gentrification, he pointed out a former convent that he converted into apartments. Abdo announced that he helped develop “thousands” of such tasteful, expensive though not outrageously priced units during the past decade and a half, for “people of substance,” he said, “people who want to participate in this city.” Mayor Williams had already bought a unit in H Street. Sheila Johnson, the philanthropist and co-founder of Black Entertainment Television, bought a chapel in the convent.

How Washington managed this transformation, however, is not a story that the rest of the country might want to hear, because we largely financed it. As the size of the has ballooned over the past decade, more and more of that money has remained in the District. “We get about 15 cents of every procurement dollar spent by the federal government,” says Stephen Fuller, a professor of public policy at George Mason University and an expert on the region. “There’s great dependence there.” And with dependence comes fragility. About 40 percent of the regional economy, Fuller says, relies on federal spending.

Congress may have passed legislation to avert the middle-class increases of the so-called but it has only postponed what is known as the “sequester” — $1.2 trillion in budget cuts. And that’s on top of several hundred billion dollars in cuts that the Pentagon has already agreed to. The capital’s boom days, in other words, might be over. “Rather than leading the nation, we’re going to be lagging it going forward,” Fuller says.

Peak Washington of the early 2010s, many economists believe, got its start during the Reagan Revolution of the 1980s. Reagan’s messianic push to get government out of the way of private-sector growth famously led to lower taxes and reduced regulation. It also led to a subtle change in the way government did business. Hiring became secondary to contracting, and more and more public projects were outsourced to private firms.

Washington’s economy did well under Reagan (added military spending gave it a boost), but the move to contract out more and more government work proved to be a crucial long-term change. In 1993, announced a “reinventing government” initiative, which ultimately included cutting the federal work force by about 250,000 positions. The agencies winnowed their rolls, but over the course of the Clinton years, their budgets expanded, and in many cases, the work just went to contractors. Those contractors often came at a bloated cost, too. In a study released in 2011, the Project on Government Oversight found that using contractors can cost the federal government about twice as much as federal employees for comparable work. According to the study, the salary for a federally employed computer engineer would be about $135,000; a contractor might bill the government around $270,000 for similar work.

It was not until the Bush years, though, that this increasingly wealthy not-federal-but-still-government work force truly metastasized. The amorphous war on terror and the creation of the — plus the wars in and — bloated the country’s spending by about $1 trillion. The contracting dollars that were pumped into the local economy, Fuller says, more than doubled between 2000 and 2010, when it reached $80 billion a year. This, in turn, created hundreds of thousand of desk jobs and fostered a sprawl of nameless, faceless office parks lining the roads out to Dulles Airport.

In the process, tens of thousands of new workers, often well-paid young white-collar professionals in areas like technology, bioscience and engineering, also entered the local economy. And many of these young professionals, as Abdo hoped, worked 14-hour days and wanted to live near work, friends, coffee shops and yoga studios. This infusion of human capital, combined with proximity to the Federal tap, proved attractive to a huge number of other businesses looking to hire. has opened an outpost in Washington. LivingSocial owns a huge, hiply decorated space downtown. , Intelsat, and dozens of other firms have opened up offices or moved their headquarters to the region. The health care sector, with its proximity to the , has greatly expanded, too. “Maryland got the life sciences, and got the death sciences,” Jim Moran, the Democratic congressman who represents much of the military corridor in Northern Virginia, said. “Of course, NoVa, given the two wars, it’s done even better than suburban Maryland.”

But the contours of Washington’s wealth are far different from those in other boom towns. In New York or , inequality has become fractured: the upper middle class has pulled away from the middle class, and the rich from the upper middle class, and the really rich from the rich and so on. Washington, though, has become an increasingly two-class town. About a third of households make less than $60,000 a year, while around 45 percent make more than $100,000 a year. Relatively few are what might be traditionally considered middle class.

Perhaps that, more than anything, explains the appearance of the new gilded-age Washington, which is less about wealth than it is about the growth of one of the most ascendant petite bourgeoisies that the United States has known. In the five years since I moved to the city, the transformation has been visible, palpable and sometimes astonishing. Washington has become a place that sports a decent turnover in multimillion-dollar homes, a Tesla dealership and a dozen fabulous new restaurants a year. You can even purchase a $69 tasting menu of craft cocktails at a speakeasy, if that’s your thing.

More prosaically, though, new residents have flocked to the city for its profusion of jobs and stayed on account of its bars and restaurants and its cheap rents, at least compared with New York. In 2007, David Alpert, a former Google employee, and his wife, a lawyer, decided to move to the District rather than staying in the New York area. “When I first moved here,” Alpert, the proprietor of the yuppie urbanist blog Greater Greater Washington, told me, “complaining about how terrible D.C. was was something everybody did. You’d move here for some government job and then talk about how it’s a terrible place. I think that has changed. Maybe it’s that I’m six years older, and my friends are six years older, and people have been here longer. But I don’t think it’s so common to come in and say, ‘Everything sucks.’ ”

Perhaps that’s because Washington is changing in their image. Oramenta F. Newsome, who has worked in community development in Washington since the ’90s, told me that while longtime residents benefited from new jobs and businesses, many eventually left. “If the market moves, it moves,” explained Newsome, now the executive director of the Washington office of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. And these days, many lower-income families have moved from the District altogether, often to the suburbs of Maryland, like Prince George’s County, or even farther out. Newsome stressed that the change has been economically driven, but there are some racial overtones too.

“People will tell you it’s not about race, but it is,” said George Pelecanos, a Washington native, novelist and screenwriter who worked on “The Wire.” “It’s no longer a black city, and a lot is going to be lost because of that. But the flip side of that is, I try not to get too nostalgic about what Washington was.”

The transition can be jarring. A few blocks from Abdo’s office are cheap Chinese joints, a large homeless shelter and empty buildings. But cranes and luxury condos have sprouted up in between, along with a four-story furniture emporium, Room & Board, which sells $2,500 sleek wood dining tables just a block or two away from a pawnshop. There is Estadio, a high-end tapas bar that makes its own tonic water. On a cross street sits . It’s no surprise that penthouses in the area often go for well more than $1 million.

According to the Federal Reserve, 2013 is supposed to be the year that the U.S. economy approaches , around 3 percent. Housing prices are rising, unemployment is at the lowest level in four years. And yet there is a sense that the capital is headed for a slowdown. Among the Pentagon’s plans to cut nearly $500 billion over the next decade could be reductions not only in matériel but also to all manner of support staff. The homeland-security budgets look certain to see significant reductions, too. One recent estimate noted that more than two million jobs would be at stake if the sequester comes into effect.

The big contractors and their lobbyists are already fighting back, and there is little doubt that years of rampant military, defense and security spending will be hard to curtail. “This whole nontransparent military-security buildup has created a lot of pressure on — or opportunities for — a variety of politicians and policy makers to misbehave,” says Daron Acemoglu, a development economist at the . “Nobody’s blinking an eye at having the same thing done by seven different agencies. And there’s no way to know whether the spending is necessary or not.” Still, fighting the majority of the cuts seems futile. The wars are winding down, and the whole country is being asked to sacrifice through entitlement cuts and increases on income and capital-gains taxes. “My reading is that the defense industry is not going to get what they want,” says William D. Hartung, a defense analyst at the Center for International Policy. “There are going to be more cuts. I think they’re starting to realize that.”

As it turns out, though, those cuts might only be following a much more subtle and already extant trend. Despite Jim Abdo’s optimism, despite the Tesla dealership, the homemade tonic water and the $2,500 wood tables, Washington has actually been slowing down since the Bush years. The dollars devoted to federal contracting have declined in the past two years of the Obama administration. Job growth has been lagging in recent quarters, and offices are renting less space than they used to. “I think that the growth rate,” Fuller says, referring specifically to federal spending, “is going to be something like 1 percent a year over the next five years. But for the past 10, it’s been something like 8 percent a year. Going from 8 to 1, that feels like more than a cutback.”

It is not hard to imagine how this marked decrease in federal spending might ripple through the regional economy. Scant job growth will mean lower wages, meaning slower consumer spending, meaning less demand for new bars and clubs and stores and luxury apartments. But just how deeply this will affect the economy is unclear. It’s possible that federal budgets might never get cut outright, with Congress instead slowing the path of spending growth. That might mean slower growth for Washington, but hardly a or a regional recession of the kind that plagued after the auto industry shrank. And even if the sequester cuts are more drastic, it might take years before the local economy feels them. “People are saying, ‘We’re going to lose a million jobs here,’ ” says Gordon Adams, a professor of international relations at American University. “That’s not going to happen, and it’s not going to happen because contractors are working on existing contracts financed with prior-year dollars. We’re going to be working through this for some time, and there’s going to be a very slow roll to actual projects. The implications aren’t for current work, but the next round of work.”

For some economists, though, this course correction — while miserable in the short term — could provide a long-term benefit. There’s something unsavory about having a capital city doing outrageously well while the rest of the country is limping along — especially when its economy is premised in part on capturing wealth rather than creating it. The enormous profusion of military spending drew money from other priorities, and those dollars might find better uses elsewhere, says Robert Pollin, an economist at the at . “If you look at military spending, it creates about 11 jobs per $1 million of expenditure,” says Pollin, who grew up in the region. “Infrastructure investment, in things like the green economy, it’s 17 jobs per $1 million in spending — that’s 50 percent more. And education? Education is 27 [jobs] per $1 million.”

David Boaz, executive vice president of the , told me: “Washington’s economy is based on the confiscation and transfer of wealth produced elsewhere. Out in the country they’re growing food, building cars and designing software — all these things that raise our standard of living. Here in Washington, everyone is writing memos to each other about how to take some of that money and which special interest should get it.” I asked him if he liked living in the city, which has become undeniably nicer. Boaz sputtered a bit. “I can’t walk to lunch from my office without having to avoid the construction projects!” he said. “For Washington, it does mean better restaurants and better entertainment, and the potholes get filled faster. But for the country as a whole? I don’t think it’s a good thing for America.”

If there is a broad sense that peak Washington is already past, it’s hardly perceptible in the city itself. Dozens of cranes dot the skyline, and construction projects snarl major intersections downtown. This past summer, if you had swung by Capitol Hill on a particular Saturday evening, you might have found yourself among scores of 20-somethings in black tie and flapper gear for a ball given by the city’s craft bartenders’ guild that costs $100 for a two-hour open bar. Or you could have recently wandered through the Ritz-Carlton, which is currently setting up for Obama’s second . For $100,000 you can stay, shop and eat the salted caramels that the president himself apparently adores while watching the inaugural festivities.

Abdo admitted that he, too, expected that the city’s extraordinary growth would slow down, but he suggested that the change would be a soft landing rather than a crash. The city had been so revitalized that the new workers and consumers would keep drawing in businesses that would keep drawing in new workers, he theorized, in a virtuous development cycle that might allow the region to stop leaning so heavily on federal money. That happens to more or less jell with Fuller’s prediction. During the boom years, the metro area had diversified enough into technology, bioscience and other industries to withstand the shock. It has started to resemble vibrant, heterogeneous capitals like and more than dry, homogeneous capitals like and . “We’re shifting from a top-down economy to one based on spending by residents,” Fuller says.

Moran, the Democratic congressman from Northern Virginia, is cautiously optimistic, too. “As we’ve grown, we’ve been the beneficiary of what Richard Florida calls the ‘rise of the creative class,’ ” Moran told me. “The lifestyle built around Metro stations, the ability to work and play without the automobile, the tremendous collaboration taking place among young technology professionals. That may have a life of its own. It remains to be seen how self-sufficient we can be without the continuing growth of the federal government.”

On the final spot on our tour, Abdo took me to his newest, biggest project. We drove north on North Capitol Street, as if we were driving out of the District, to a shabby and decidedly unhip neighborhood called Brookland. It is a mostly older, mostly lower-middle-class neighborhood, underserved by grocery stores and restaurants and overlooked by many of the young professionals farther south in Bloomingdale or Shaw or Capitol Hill. Abdo was undeterred. He said that and the young families nearby needed new places to go, and that hip youngsters were being priced out of neighborhoods downtown. He had already purchased and leased nearly nine acres for a number of apartment buildings with sidewalk cafes and art studios. “This is going to be an arts walk,” Abdo said, pulling his car up to point out the hollow building shells. One building faced a set of train tracks, and he styled the back of the apartment building to look like a factory that had always been there, even though it had only just arrived.

Whatever happens to Washington, it seems hard to believe that there won’t be enough people willing to pony up $3,000 a month to inhabit Abdo’s latest vision, to drink lattes on his sidewalk cafe and walk on his arts walk. Perhaps more valuable than the hundreds of billions in government money, the boom years introduced the capital to tens of thousands of young and educated workers who arrived for the promise of some job — any job — and, in the process, married, had a kid and needed to upgrade to a bigger place. In order to survive the cuts, sure, Washington’s economy will need to diversify and attract new businesses. But perhaps the best thing that has come of the past decade is that the city has proved, unequivocally, that it’s not just the province of think tanks and tepid salmon and boxy suits anymore.
250 2013-01-13 Thank you, thank you, thank you for the beautiful elegy to Maurice Sendak in your “Lives They Lived” issue. I heard the same interview by Terry Gross you used in your video in my car earlier this year in the midst of a chaotic day and had to pull over because I couldn’t see through my tears. Honestly, everyone in the world should hear that piece. It is the epitome of truth and beauty. FRAN DVORAK, Chicago

This issue was indeed a celebration, mostly of the famous, but interspersed with ordinary heroes. One of the many who could have been included is Marvin Hamlisch. (“The Lives They Lived” is even reminiscent of “The Way We Were,” one of Hamlisch’s indelible songs.) The arc of Hamlisch’s long musical career touched many, but at heart he was just an extremely talented, funny, hard-working New Yorker. After reading your issue, I happened to be walking on Broadway, an avenue embedded with Marvin’s soul. A beautiful snowstorm swept down the street, and I thought, Nobody did it better than Marvin. JOHN ACKERLY, Takoma Park, Md.

As always, some of the best pieces are about people you never heard of, or barely heard of. There is, for example, the essay about Ethel Person, a psychiatrist who did pioneering work studying transgender people, treating them with far more sympathy and humanity than previous researchers. There’s also a wonderful piece about the South African wildlife conservationist Lawrence Anthony, who “saved countless animals during his lifetime.” The oral history about Sylvia Woods, owner of the famed Harlem restaurant Sylvia’s, is also excellent. And who knew that Brooke Shields’s mom could be the subject of such a compelling profile? KATHLEEN GEIER, on washingtonmonthly.com

“Those ’70s Shows” said that “race and class were the central concerns of ‘The Jeffersons.’ ” But I liked the show for very different reasons. It featured a black man who was neither a criminal nor a drearily wholesome role model — just pushy and prejudiced yet exuberant and likable, with a realistic mix of virtues and flaws. And it was funny! FELICIA NIMUE ACKERMAN, Providence, R.I.

This year, I knew someone personally in the magazine. And that changed everything. . . . I speak of the author David Rakoff, who died of cancer at age 47 this past August. . . . “Keep reminding yourself you’re a grown-up,” David, who always hated being a kid and longed to finally reach middle age, wrote me in one e-mail. If only I could reply tohim now, I would tell him that the problem with being an adult, though, is your having to face your mortality. Especially when a childhood friend dies. RENEE GHERT-ZAND, on The Sisterhood blog at The Jewish Daily Forward

Nora Ephron was a hilarious, eloquent, miraculous writer whose voice spoke to generations of women in ways that opened doors, gave us hope and made us proud to be smart, different and strong women. To think that all that was said about her in the issue was a collage of the “When Harry Met Sally” orgasm scene feels trivializing. The collage also misses the point as to what her accomplishments, her insightful wit and the way she lived her life meant to so many people. PAM ALLYN, New York
251 2013-01-14 Federal banking regulators hit JPMorgan Chase with two enforcement actions on Monday. The regulators also ordered the bank to fix breakdowns in money-laundering controls....
252 2013-01-14 The Japanese automaker cut the price of its base Leaf model by 18 percent and announced other improvement to spur consumer interest in the electric car, which is a cornerstone of Nissan's strategy....
253 2013-01-14 The president's inaugural parade next Monday will feature eight floats....
254 2013-01-14 The actor Danny Glover speaks up for Nissan employees in Mississippi who are seeking to unionize an assembly plant....
255 2013-01-14 Jana Carriere joined Scales Advertising, St. Paul, in a new post, client services director. She had most recently been an account supervisor at the New York office of TPN, part of the Omnicom Group.

Catalyst Public Relations, New York, was acquired by IMG Worldwide, New York, as IMG seeks to expand into the communications realm. Financial terms were not disclosed. Catalyst, which also has offices in Charlotte, N.C., and Los Angeles, will operate under its current name and management as part of the consulting business at IMG.

Adam Chandler joined the New York office of Jumptap in a new post, senior vice president for sales. He had most recently been executive in residence at Lerer Ventures and before that was chief revenue officer at the Thrillist Media Group, New York. Jumptap created the sales post after Todd Anderman, who had been chief revenue officer, left to join Thrillist as president for sales, marketing and operations; Mr. Anderman’s post at Thrillist, which is new, includes the duties that Mr. Chandler had handled there.

Sabrina Chapman joined SK&G, Las Vegas, as a public relations account executive. She had most recently been a writer for publications like Las Vegas Weekly and Las Vegas magazine, covering spirits and cocktails.

Dbray Media, Parsippany, N.J., was hired by three clients. They are: Becker Brothers, Montclair, N.J., and New York, a real estate firm; Cinchcast, New York, a webcasting company that had previously worked with Affect, New York; and MyEchain, Raleigh, N.C., which offers apps that help consumers upload, store and organize their loyalty cards, membership cards and rewards cards.

Dentsu, Tokyo, said it would encourage certain employees to retire early with an incentive program. The effort is aimed at employees who will be ages 40 to 59 as of March 31 and will have worked at Dentsu for 10 years or longer. It is the sixth early-retirement incentive program at Dentsu and the first since 2007.

Mark Hansen joined the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, as executive vice president and director for account management. He assumes those duties from Peter McGuinness, chief executive at DDB Chicago, who had been acting as head of accounts for the last 18 months, the agency said. Mr. Hansen had been group account director for North America at TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles, which is the Playa del Rey, Calif., office of TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of Omnicom.

Jason Hoffman joined Optimedia, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for digital. He had been head of United States digital media and strategy at OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of the Omnicom Group. Optimedia is part of the ZenithOptimedia division of the Publicis Groupe.

Hoosier Lottery, Indianapolis, named Mortenson Safar Kim, formerly MeyerWallis, Indianapolis and Milwaukee, as its creative agency of record. The decision to award a contract to Mortenson Safar Kim came after a required review; the budget for the first year of the contract, including media, production and agency fees, is more than $10 million. The Lottery had previously divided creative assignments between Mortenson Safar Kim and Boyden & Youngblutt, Fort Wayne, Ind. The Lottery plans reviews for assignments handled by other agencies that include media planning and media buying.

IPG Mediabrands, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, shifted three media specialty units in the United States to its Orion Holdings division from its Geomentum division. They are NSA Media, the Outdoor Advertising Group and Wahlstrom.

David Jenkins joined Taxi New York — the New York office of Taxi, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP — as president. He succeeds Durk Barnhill, who left in the summer to become chief executive of the flagship New York office of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Jenkins had most recently been chief integration officer at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners.

D’nae Kingsley-Cronan was named to a new post, vice president for integrated planning at Trailer Park, Hollywood, Calif., and its advertising unit, Goodness Mfg. She has worked for agencies that include GolinHarris and TBWA/Chiat/Day.

McCann Worldgroup, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, formed a division, McCann ExtraBoldCondensed, that will be devoted to one of the agency’s biggest worldwide clients, MasterCard. The new division will be led by Joyce King Thomas as president; she had been chief creative officer at the McCann Erickson New York unit of the McCann Worldgroup from 2004 to 2010 and helped create the original MasterCard “Priceless” campaign in 1997.

MediaWhiz, New York, a digital media agency, was acquired by the Matomy Media Group, Tel Aviv, and becomes the North American hub of Matomy Media. Financial terms were not disclosed. MediaWhiz had been a part of Hyper Marketing, which was recently acquired by the Epsilon unit of Alliance Data, but the acquisition did not include MediaWhiz. Hakan Lindskog becomes chief executive at MediaWhiz, succeeding John Kuendig, who continues as chairman of the Ryan Partnership division of Hyper Marketing. Mr. Lindskog had most recently been a consultant to Matomy Media and before that was president and chief executive at Neverblue, Vancouver, British Columbia.

Sujata Mitra, manager for media relations at CQ Roll Call, Washington, part of the Economist Group, was named to a new post, director for marketing communications.

Dee Mustafa-Bowne joined the Atlanta office of Digitas, part of the VivaKi division of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, vice president and group creative director. She had most recently been creative director at the Atlanta office of Engauge.

RMM Online Advertising, New York, part of Lin Media, was renamed Lin Digital.

Rokkan Media, New York, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris. Financial terms were not disclosed. Rokkan will operate as an autonomous unit of the Publicis Groupe under its current managers.

Marty Senn joined Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as an executive creative director; the agency will now have two executive creative directors as Mr. Senn joins Randy Hughes. Mr. Senn had been a creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group.

Chris Wilson, a business director at JWT New York, part of the JWT division of WPP, joined the JWT Atlanta office as senior partner and director for account management. He succeeds Mary Margaret Connell, who left JWT Atlanta last year.
256 2013-01-14 The musical, based on the 2003 movie about a father-son relationship and the power of mythic storytelling, will begin performances on Sept. 5 at the Neil Simon Theater with Bobby Steggert and Kate Baldwin joining Norbert Leo Butz....
257 2013-01-14 The actions of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission may have more influence over the direction of Herbalife's stock price than two hedge fund managers do....
258 2013-01-14 Your next assignment: Draw the new Miss America in her hometown: Brooklyn. Also, your drawings of the runaway zebra of Staten Island....
259 2013-01-14 Everyone knows that stock investing is risky, but avoiding equities creates other risks, including ones that come from long-term inflation....
260 2013-01-14 Suppose we were to allow lenders to be paid back with a percentage of an entrepreneur's future earnings - irrespective of what company the entrepreneur ends up building or working for....
261 2013-01-14 Swatch Group, the world's largest watch maker, agreed on Monday to pay $750 million to acquire the watch and jewelry business of Harry Winston, which plans to shift its focus to its diamond mining activities....
262 2013-01-14 A trillion-dollar coin, the Soup Nazi, tips for manufacturers, hiring without an H.R. department. And do you think small businesses are overly romanticized?...
263 2013-01-14 Russell Henley became the first PGA Tour rookie to win his debut in 10 years with a record-setting performance in the Sony Open in Honolulu.

Tied for the lead with another rookie, Scott Langley, to start the final round, Henley closed with a seven-under-par 63 for a three-shot win over Tim Clark. Henley finished at 24-under 256, breaking the Sony Open scoring record by four shots. It was the second-lowest score for a 72-hole tournament in PGA Tour history. The win gives Henley an invitation to the Masters.

Louis Oosthuizen shot a six-under-par 66 to beat Scott Jamieson of Scotland by a stroke for the Volvo Champions title in Durban, South Africa. Oosthuizen finished at 16 under.  Jamieson, who led by five shots heading into Sunday, had a final round 72. The win elevated Oosthuizen toa career-high fourth in the world rankings.
264 2013-01-14 The president-elect of the New Mexico Young America Football League was removed from his position after he and his wife were arrested on a child pornography charge.

The Albuquerque Journal reported that the league’s incoming president, Frederick Gonzales, 42, and his wife, Carey, 36, were arrested Friday. The league’s board on Saturday removed Gonzales as president-elect of the group, which oversees about 5,000 players statewide who range in age from 7 to 14.
265 2013-01-14 “The way I think she’d put it is that, when bad things happen, women brood — they’re cerebral, which can feed into the depression,” said Martin Seligman, a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, who oversaw her doctoral work. “Men are more inclined to act, to do something, plan, beat someone up, play basketball.”

Dr. Seligman added, “She was the leading figure in sex differences in depression of her generation.”

Dr. Nolen-Hoeksema wrote several books about her research for general readers, including “Women Who Think Too Much: How to Break Free of Overthinking and Reclaim Your Life.” These books described why rumination could be so corrosive — it is deeply distracting; it tends to highlight negative memories — and how such thoughts could be alleviated.

Susan Kay Nolen was born on May 22, 1959, in Springfield, Ill., to John and Catherine Nolen. Her father ran a construction business, where her mother was the office manager; Susan was the eldest of three children.

She entered Illinois State University before transferring to Yale. She graduated summa cum laude in 1982 with a degree in psychology.

After earning a Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, she joined the faculty at Stanford. She later moved to the University of Michigan, before returning to Yale in 2004.

Along the way she published scores of studies and a popular textbook. In 2003 she became the editor of the Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, an influential journal.

Dr. Nolen-Hoeksema moved smoothly between academic work and articles and books for the general reader.

“I think part of what allowed her to move so easily between those two worlds was that she was an extremely clear thinker, and an extremely clear writer,” said Marcia K. Johnson, a psychology professor and colleague at Yale.

Dr. Nolen-Hoeksema lived in Bethany, Conn. In addition to her husband, a science writer, she is survived by a son, Michael; her brothers, Jeff and Steve; and her father, John.

“Over the past four decades women have experienced unprecedented growth in independence and opportunities,” Dr. Nolen-Hoeksema wrote in 2003, adding, “We have many reasons to be happy and confident.”

“Yet when there is any pause in our daily activities,” she continued, “many of us are flooded with worries, thoughts and emotions that swirl out of control, sucking our emotions and energy down, down, down. We are suffering from an epidemic of overthinking.”
266 2013-01-14 Under the new collective bargaining agreement signed Saturday, the cap is to plunge by about $10 million next season, but teams will be allowed two amnesty buyouts to help reach the cap. If a player is injured, however, he cannot be bought out.

General Manager Marc Bergevin said it was safest for the team that Gomez, a 33-year-old center, not play this season.

“We had to buy out Scott’s contract, and the safest way to do that without risking him being injured was to send him home,” Bergevin said. “It’s the rules we have to play by.”

Under the new rules, the Canadiens will have to pay Gomez’s $10 million total salary for the next two seasons but will save $900,000 in cap space this season and remove the cap hit entirely in 2013-14.

Gomez, a 12-year N.H.L. veteran who had his best seasons with the Devils in the early to mid-2000s, has been a disappointment on the ice the last two seasons.

HURRICANES MAKE MOVES Carolina opened training camp by acquiring forward Kevin Westgarth from Los Angeles for forward Anthony Stewart and two draft picks. That came after the Hurricanes sent goalie Brian Boucher and the minor league defenseman Mark Alt to the Philadelphia Flyers for the minor league center Luke Pither.

Carolina also signed the former Anaheim Ducks goalie Dan Ellis to a one-year deal worth a prorated $650,000 this season.

PITTSBURGH OPENS CAMP The Pittsburgh Penguins practiced for nearly 90 minutes, and the only player not in camp was forward Evgeni Malkin, the reigning N.H.L. most valuable player. Malkin, who spent the lockout playing at home in Russia, was expected to be on the ice Monday.

IGINLA SITS OUT Jarome Iginla, Calgary’s captain, missed the Flames’ first practice of the season with a groin injury. Coach Bob Hartley said he expected Iginla to be cleared soon to join his teammates on the ice.

CANUCKS SIGN DEFENSEMAN Vancouver signed defenseman Cam Barker, the third pick in the 2004 draft, to a one-year deal.
267 2013-01-14 MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Maria Sharapova finished her first match of the year in 55 minutes Monday, cruising to a 6-0, 6-0 win over Olga Puchkova at the Australian Open and showing no problems with her sore right shoulder.

Sharapova, who lost last year’s final here to Victoria Azarenka before winning the French Open, faced only two break points against Puchkova, a fellow Russian.

Sharapova, ranked second, withdrew from the Brisbane International this month with an injured right collarbone, saying she wanted to concentrate on being fit for the Australian Open, the season’s first major.

She could have a third-round match against Venus Williams, who defeated Galina Voskoboeva of Kazakhstan, 6-1, 6-0, in her opening match. Williams, the 25th seed, took command early with a steady stream of winners and powerful serves.

Third-ranked Serena Williams is in the top half of the draw with Azarenka. The two will start Tuesday.

Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland advanced to the second round by defeating the wild-card entry Bojana Bobusic of Australia, 7-5, 6-0.
268 2013-01-14 While Mr. Armstrong’s celebrity fed the charity, the charity also enhanced his marketability. Livestrong also engaged in some deals that appeared to have benefited him and his associates, according to interviews and financial records.

In one case, the charity sold the rights to its iconic Livestrong name to a commercial media company that also hired Mr. Armstrong as a spokesman.

“There was a conflict. I felt there was,” said Doug Kingsriter, a former Livestrong development officer. “And of course we run into this with nonprofits. Personal interests, personal agendas, should not be greater than the interest of the mission of the organization.”

As Mr. Stapleton predicted, Mr. Armstrong became a crossover celebrity, gaining endorsement deals with a variety of companies. Many of those companies donated to the foundation, burnishing their images through association with a good cause.

Mr. Stapleton’s company, Capital Sports & Entertainment, of which Mr. Armstrong was the key client and a minority shareholder, earned fees from the foundation, beginning in 2010, based on the partnerships it generated. In three years, those fees amounted to $423,000.

On his company’s Web site, Mr. Stapleton is identified as the chief management officer of the Livestrong brand at the foundation. The foundation distinguished itself by emphasizing survivorship, providing programs and services aimed at easing the personal and practical hardships that come with cancer. Millions of people wore the yellow Livestrong wristbands that became the organization’s trademark and a rallying point for cancer awareness.

As the doping allegations mounted, the foundation’s popularity became part of Mr. Armstrong’s defense. His lawyers invoked his charity as he fought the United States Anti-Doping Agency, known as Usada, whose October report disclosed overwhelming evidence that Mr. Armstrong had doped during most of his career and had supplied performance-enhancing drugs to his teammates. Usada also accused both Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Stapleton of lying under oath in an effort to cover up Mr. Armstrong’s use of the drugs.

Last summer, the charity also ran interference when its executive director, Doug Ulman, issued statements raising questions about the integrity of Usada’s investigation. Livestrong also hired lobbyists from Patton Boggs, the firm representing Mr. Armstrong in the doping case.

Livestrong’s stated purpose in visiting Capitol Hill lawmakers, according to lobbying records, included “issues related to support for the foundation’s activities.” But a spokesman for Representative José E. Serrano later said that the Usada investigation was the primary focus of the discussions.

Mr. Ulman said that the lobbying was related to issues linked to cancer and that any discussion of the antidoping agency came up only in passing. To avoid conflicts of interest in the foundation’s overall business, he said, its executive committee screened all of its partnerships, and a top lawyer who specializes in nonprofits monitored the integrity of its deals.

In an interview at Livestrong’s headquarters in , Tex., Mr. Ulman, himself a cancer survivor, said that the last few months “felt like years,” but that the foundation would endure. It has reduced its budget by 11 percent for this year but expected many of its donors would remain loyal, he added. “In the long run, I think the organization is going to be incredibly strong because the cause is so important,” he said.

Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Stapleton, who are not accused of any wrongdoing related to the foundation, did not respond to requests for comment.

Stripped of his seven Tour de France titles, barred from all Olympic sports, including triathlons, and dropped by his former sponsors, Mr. Armstrong may face civil litigation seeking millions.

John Korioth, one of Mr. Armstrong’s oldest friends and a co-founder of the foundation, said he believed that the interview with Ms. Winfrey would begin to mend the damage. “I think, I hope, that Lance will talk to the media in addressing those things that happened and the public moves on, moves on in a sense that there’s still this organization down in Austin that helps people fight and survive cancer,” Mr. Korioth said. He predicted that Mr. Armstrong would confess to using some performance-enhancing drugs but deny that he was a ringleader.

For Livestrong, much hangs in the balance. Records and interviews show that the foundation has already lost financial support as corporations scale back or end their donations, even though Mr. Armstrong resigned as Livestrong’s chairman in an effort to contain the damage.

Trek, the bicycle maker, has not renewed its pledge to Livestrong — worth at least $1,050,000 over the last three years. , which had guaranteed $4 million a year, has extended its agreement with the foundation through June but with no guarantee, the foundation said. The sunglasses company Oakley, which had guaranteed at least $500,000 a year, said it continued to support the organization but had guaranteed no minimum for 2013.

“What typically happens is that a sponsor doesn’t want to pull out when the spotlight is shining on the controversy and look like bad guys for not supporting a cancer awareness charity,” said Daniel Borochoff, president of CharityWatch. “They typically wait until it dies down.”

In a recent episode of “South Park,” the town’s residents lined up at a pharmacy to have their yellow Livestrong wristbands safely removed. The wristbands are “out,” except at Livestrong’s headquarters, where all of the nearly 100 employees wear them.

The foundation spared no expense on its offices, which resemble a gigantic loft plunked down in a trendy section of East Austin. The same goes for its staff, which earns among the top nonprofit salaries in Austin.

Initially called the Lance Armstrong Foundation, the organization had grand plans almost from the beginning. After Mr. Armstrong won his first Tour de France, in 1999, the group hired a professional nonprofit executive, Howard Chalmers, as its president.

Mr. Chalmers decided to establish a “founders circle” of donors who would each pledge $500,000. The foundation offered a glamorous incentive: finish line tickets at the Tour de France and dinner afterward at the Four Seasons George V in Paris.

“That took us from off the map entirely to on the map,” said Mr. Chalmers, who said he believed that Mr. Armstrong’s good works through the foundation outweighed any misdeeds. “He’s popular as a symbol of hope to many people,” Mr. Chalmers said.

In 2004, the foundation’s fortunes increased drastically, and almost overnight, with the introduction of the yellow wristbands emblazoned with the word Livestrong, an idea developed by . As Armstrong won his sixth Tour that July, nearly every rider wore the yellow wristband. The next month at the Olympics in Athens, the American sprinter won a gold medal wearing one. By 9 a.m. the next day, more than 300,000 wristbands were sold on the foundation’s Web site. By the end of the year, the foundation had earned $26 million from wristband sales.

“What people connect with is Lance’s story,” Mr. Kingsriter said. “Get a second opinion. Get a third opinion. Take charge of your life. Live your life and don’t let cancer live it for you. Those messages resonated with a lot of people.”

The foundation saw its mission as “survivorship” — addressing the problems of people after their diagnoses. Among Livestrong’s top initiatives are survivorship centers at eight major cancer institutions. Other initiatives include a cancer “navigation” program that gives clients help finding government programs and fighting for reimbursement.

As the foundation grew, some supporters felt it had become too glamorous, overly focused on branding, image and public relations. The 2011 marketing budget, for example, reveals a $964,000 payment to one vendor for “digital marketing and strategy.”

Among the projects undertaken by the vendor, Bully Pulpit, was an “open letter campaign” to generate more than 100,000 signatures delivered to world leaders asking them to make cancer a global priority. Livestrong placed a video billboard in Times Square featuring photographs of those who had signed.

“They just seem to be running around and doing all these different events,” said Michael Birdsong, a donor and fund-raiser who has been critical of the foundation. Among examples of what Mr. Birdsong viewed as unnecessary expenditures: the foundation’s plans in 2009 to send five of its employees to post on from the Tour de France.

The potential conflicts between the foundation and Mr. Armstrong’s business interests became apparent early, according to Mr. Chalmers.

Mr. Chalmers became concerned that one company, , was using the foundation to promote its brand. The company, which had hired Mr. Armstrong as a spokesman, created a “Cycle of Hope” campaign in 2000 that included an information kit on cancer risk factors and symptoms, with advice from Mr. Armstrong.

“It was presented to us: here’s your cancer kit and we’re providing this as part of our relationship with the foundation,” Chalmers said. “It could have looked to an outsider, Wait a minute, Lance is using his foundation as leverage to get sponsors.”

Mr. Chalmers added that the organization took pains to avoid such conflicts. In a statement, Bristol-Myers said it had sponsored the Cycle of Hope to promote early diagnosis and support cancer patients.

Mr. Armstrong’s empire expanded with lucrative endorsement deals and investments, including Honey Stinger food bars, FRS sports drinks, real estate, the Internet company Demand Media and an Austin shop. At the same time, Mr. Armstrong accounted for 20 percent to 30 percent of the business for Mr. Stapleton’s company, Capital Sports & Entertainment, according to testimony in a lawsuit.

Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Stapleton and the company made substantial donations to Livestrong over the years. Mr. Armstrong gave a total of $7 million, making him the largest noncorporate donor.

Mr. Stapleton, who also served as an executive of some of Mr. Armstrong’s cycling teams, gave up his role as foundation president early on, but employees said he remained a behind-the-scenes presence. The organization’s governing board also had several members with close ties to Mr. Armstrong, including business partners.

The foundation hired top lawyers with nonprofit expertise to make sure its deals were in its best interests and complied with I.R.S. rules. Still, some people within the organization said they felt uneasy over the ties between Mr. Armstrong’s private business deals and partnerships with the foundation.

In 2008, Demand Media hired Mr. Armstrong as a spokesman and reached an agreement with the foundation to develop a commercial health and fitness Web site called ., which would be supported by advertisers.

That meant there would be two Livestrongs — , the health and fitness Web site, and , the foundation.

Mark Zimbelman, a professor who specializes in accounting fraud, and an amateur cyclist who has followed Mr. Armstrong’s career, called the agreement “unprecedented” in the world of nonprofit organizations.

“Imagine if the decided to create a new Web site called ‘ ’ and sold the Web site,” Mr. Zimbelman wrote on his blog. “On the Web site they sold and other health products and used the same logos that the nonprofit organization uses.”

In 2011, as a result of the deal, the foundation ended up with 184,000 shares of Demand Media at an offering price of $17, according to documents filed with the . Shares soared as high as $25 on the first day of the company’s trading. Mr. Armstrong received 156,000 shares, valued at about $2 million, which he donated to the foundation. Capital Sports & Entertainment received 28,000 shares.

Mr. Kingsriter, who by then had left the foundation, questioned the propriety of the agreement. “It was pretty clear from what I understand that the Livestrong brand was there for the foundation, and , a for-profit that benefited Lance’s agent, in my opinion was wrong,” he said.

Denis Prager, a nonprofit expert who formerly served as a consultant for Livestrong, also said the arrangement “crossed a red line.”

Mr. Kingsriter said he also had questions about a deal involving the upstart sports drink company FRS.

In March 2007, the maker of FRS announced that it would help sponsor the Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team, which was managed by Capital Sports and owned by Tailwind Sports. Capital Sports and Mr. Armstrong were also part owners of Tailwind, according to court testimony.

The sports drink company appointed Mr. Armstrong to its board of directors and gave him a financial stake. The company agreed to give the foundation a percentage of its profits, which amounted to $250,000 in 2012.

In return, the foundation promised to make FRS the official sports drink at its events, including Livestrong bicycle races, marathons and triathlons.

Mr. Kingsriter said the foundation should have pursued a deal with a widely distributed drink that would have made more money for the foundation.

Under I.R.S. rules, charities may be asked to demonstrate whether agreements are in their best interest, particularly when there is an appearance of a conflict of interest, according to Mr. Borochoff of Charity Watch. “Hopefully, they would have gone to Gatorade and other sports drinks and said, ‘Hey, what would you give us for that right to be the official drink?’ ” he said.

FRS has ended its partnership with Mr. Armstrong and the foundation.

For now, one of the foundation’s most generous donors, Nike, is continuing to support the charity, pledging at least $7.5 million for 2013 and 2014. To much public attention, Nike ended its contract with Mr. Armstrong himself in October, saying he had misled the company about his doping for 10 years. A 2001 Nike television ad, in fact, featured Mr. Armstrong disputing the doping allegations against him.
269 2013-01-14 The Miss in question, Mallory Hagan, is a student at the Fashion Institute of Technology whose victory was credited to her tap dancing (to James Brown’s “Get Up Offa That Thing”), her campaign against child sexual abuse, and her adroit response when asked whether schools should hire armed guards (“I don’t think the proper way to fight violence is with violence”).

An Alabama native who moved to New York several years ago and became Miss Brooklyn in 2010, Ms. Hagan, 23, is not exactly a Brooklyn product. But she appears to have embraced the borough, even if it is not yet quite so ready to reciprocate. “In the time I’ve spent in New York, Brooklyn has grown very close to my heart. I love New York (and not in a tourist T-shirt kind of way) dearly and I truly believe this is the city where dreams come true,” she wrote on her blog. “Thank you, Brooklyn, for helping me get one step closer to mine.”

Southern transplant though she is, Senator Charles E. Schumer was quick to hail her victory for New York. (The last Miss New York to win the Miss America title was Vanessa Williams, the actress and singer, nearly 30 years ago; she relinquished her title after a magazine published nude photos of her less than a year later.)

“Just goes to show that people from Brooklyn can do everything and anything,” the senator said. “Pizza, bagels, beauty and talent — there’s nothing we don’t have in the borough of Kings.”

Amy Brill, 42, a writer who lives just south of Prospect Park, simply laughed when she heard the news.

“That’s hilarious!” She turned to her 4-year-old daughter, Isa, and asked, “Do you know who Miss America is?”

“Miss America is a girl who represents our country,” Ms. Brill said, offering what some might consider a wishful description. “What do you think she should be like?”

Much as Ms. Brill might hope her young daughters grow up to possess those same qualities, she said she would “never in a million years” encourage them to enter a pageant.

“I want them to feel beautiful every minute of their lives, and I want them to judge whether they’re beautiful,” she said, “and not anybody else.”

Even if her particular ambition did not find favor, some saw Ms. Hagan’s story as a classic tale of making it in the big city, albeit with an unorthodox twist.

Ms. Hagan has said she came to New York in 2008 with a large suitcase and less than $1,000, dreaming of becoming Miss America and then, someday, a big-time cosmetics executive. She competed for the Miss New York title twice before winning it last year, and wrote that she juggled full-time employment and school in addition to her pageant duties.

At least one Windsor Terrace resident needs no convincing.

“That’s Brooklyn chutzpah,” said Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, who has met Ms. Hagan a few times. “Who’s more Brooklyn — somebody that voluntarily decided to leave wherever they lived and chose Brooklyn to live and reside and whatever? Or someone who was born and raised here and decided to leave us?

“She is Brooklyn,” Mr. Markowitz proclaimed, praising Ms. Hagan’s grit and down-to-earth quality. “She may have a little Southern twang, but we have a Brooklyn twang, too.”

But was Miss America, the pageant, equally “Brooklyn”? That, Mr. Markowitz acknowledged, was a somewhat more difficult proposition.

“There’s a lot of things Brooklyn, but if you would have said to me Miss America, it was out of my — ” he said, sounding at a loss for words. “It’s just not the kind of thing the — you know?”

Yes, his constituents know. But a few were following Mr. Markowitz’s lead and making overtures toward the new hometown queen, even if partly in jest.

The staff at the Double Windsor put out a sign advertising the “Mallory Hagan” special: a pint of a local beer and an Alabama slammer — a shot of Southern Comfort, amaretto, grenadine and lime juice — for $7.

“Congrats Mallory our neighborhood Miss America!” it read. “If you are Miss America, come in for your free bacon cheeseburger and unlimited fries.”
270 2013-01-14 ¶Clift Jones joined Captains of Industry, Boston, an agency that specializes in content creation, as president and chief executive, a new post. He will also take an ownership stake in the agency, he said, along with Ted Page, principal and executive creative director, and Fred Surr, principal and executive producer. From 2003 to 2010, Mr. Jones held posts like president and worldwide chief operating officer at Modernista, Boston, which closed in 2011.

¶Andrew Benett, global chief executive at Arnold Worldwide, Boston, part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas, was named to a new post at a larger, sibling agency, global president at Havas Worldwide, New York. Robert LePlae, global president at Arnold, will succeed Mr. Benett there as global chief executive.

¶Rick Doerr, senior vice president and managing director at the New York office of T3, was promoted to president and chief client officer of the agency. The post of chief client officer is new; he assumes the duties of president from Gay Gaddis, who continues as chief executive, based at the T3 headquarters in Austin, Tex.

¶Colleen DeCourcy and Mark Fitzloff were named co-global executive creative directors at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore. Ms. DeCourcy had been chief executive and chief creative officer at Socialistic, New York, part of Havas, and Mr. Fitzloff had been executive creative director for the Wieden & Kennedy Portland operation. Ms. DeCourcy and Mr. Fitzloff are assuming duties from John C. Jay, who was named to lead a new joint venture for Wieden & Kennedy called W.&K. Garage, and Iain Tait, who had been global interactive executive creative director before leaving in April to join Google as executive creative director at the Google Creative Lab, New York. Joe Staples, creative director at the Wieden & Kennedy Portland operation, will succeed Mr. Fitzloff as executive creative director there. Separately, Dave Luhr, partner and global chief operating officer at Wieden & Kennedy, was named president, assuming duties from Dan Wieden, who becomes chairman, a new post.

¶Maurie Perl is leaving Condé Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, after 21 years. Her post as senior vice president for media and communications at the Condé Nast Entertainment Group division of Condé Nast was eliminated as the division begins to work with outside public relations agencies. Ms. Perl had also handled public relations and communications for Condé Nast magazines like The New Yorker and Vanity Fair and also led corporate communications for Condé Nast.

¶Todd Waterbury joined the Target Corporation, Minneapolis, as senior vice president for creative, serving as the retailer’s executive creative director, assuming duties from Liz Elert, vice president for creative, who left during the summer. Mr. Waterbury had been running his own firm, Todd Waterbury Consulting, New York, where he worked for clients like the retailer Uniqlo, and before that was co-executive creative director at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy.

¶Linda A. Woolley, who had been serving since May as acting president and chief executive at the Direct Marketing Association, New York, was named to those posts permanently, effective immediately.

¶Nathan Lump joined Condé Nast Traveler, New York, part of the Condé Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications, as brand development director, a new post. He had been director for content strategy at JWT, New York, part of WPP.

¶R&R Partners, Las Vegas, expanded its presence in Washington through a joint venture with Hannegan Landau Poersch Advocacy, Washington, which will now share the R&R Washington office. R&R recently expanded into Austin, Tex., and Denver, and also has offices in markets like Los Angeles, Phoenix and Salt Lake City.

¶Advertising pages in magazines fell 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the same period a year ago, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, New York. For all of 2012, the organization said, magazine ad pages fell 8.2 percent compared with 2011.

¶Business Valuation Resources, Portland, Ore., acquired the assets of EPM Communications, New York, which publishes newsletters like The Licensing Letter. Financial terms were not disclosed. EPM becomes a division of Business Valuation Resources and Ira Mayer, president and publisher at EPM, will serve in those posts at the division, which will remain based in New York.

¶Three agencies owned by WPP acquired the remaining shares they did not own in three agencies in Bogota, Colombia. Financial terms were not disclosed. Grey, part of the Grey Group, acquired shares in REP/Grey. G2 Worldwide, also part of the Grey Group, acquired shares in REP/G2. And MediaCom, part of GroupM, acquired shares in Massive.

¶GlobalPost, Boston, opened a sales office in New York to be led by John J. McMenamin as chief revenue officer; he has worked for companies that include Cablevision Systems and Turner Broadcasting System.

¶Triad Retail Media, Tampa, Fla., which works for clients like CVS, eBay, Toys “R” Us and Walmart, was acquired by Rockbridge Growth Equity, Detroit, in partnership with Falcon Investment Advisors, Boston. Financial terms were not disclosed. Triad had been owned by an affiliate of H.I.G. Growth Partners and two senior executives of Triad, Greg Murtagh and Roger Berdusco; Mr. Murtagh and Mr. Berdusco will remain as chief executive and chief operating officer, respectively, and will own equity in the agency.

¶The One Club for Art and Copy, New York, named four people who will be inducted into the One Club Creative Hall of Fame for 2013. They are: Steve Hayden, who held senior posts at agencies like Chiat/Day, BBDO West and Ogilvy & Mather and created, with Lee Clow, the famous “1984” Apple commercial; Martin Puris, who founded with Ralph Ammirati the New York agency Ammirati & Puris; Jim Riswold, whose work at Wieden & Kennedy included the “Bo Knows” and “Hello World” campaigns for Nike; and John Webster, who will be honored posthumously for his career as a writer and director of British television commercials. Also, Richard Wilde, chairman at the BFA advertising and graphic design department at the School of Visual Arts, will be inducted into the Educators Hall of Fame.

¶Warc, London, predicted that worldwide advertising spending this year would increase 4 percent from 2012. That was lowered from a forecast made in August, which called for an increase of 4.9 percent. For 2014, Warc predicted, worldwide ad spending will grow 5.5 percent from 2013.
271 2013-01-14 Re “Health Insurers Raise Some Rates by Double Digits” (front page, Jan. 6): Health plans share the goal of affordable health care coverage for all Americans. Arbitrarily capping premiums without addressing underlying cost drivers will not move the country closer to that goal.

Data show that premiums are increasing because of the unsustainable rise in medical costs, new benefit mandates that make coverage more expensive, and the effect of younger and healthier people forgoing insurance because of a slow economy.

Moreover, the health care reform law imposed new rate review requirements and a federal cap on health plan administrative costs and profits, further suggesting that rising premiums are being driven by increased spending on medical care.

Focusing on affordability is critical as the reform law is fully carried out in 2014. That is why policy makers should address provisions that will further increase premiums, like the health insurance tax, and take steps to ensure broad participation in the system.
272 2013-01-14 The fund says standards are widely being ignored or lowered, affecting air, water and land use, from the reduction of mandatory environmental impact reviews to plans for increasing coal use and the likelihood that 95 percent of Greece’s environmental fund — more than $1 billion collected for projects like improving energy efficiency and sustaining nature conservancies — will be absorbed into the general government budget.

In June, the fund issued a report saying it was witnessing an “avalanche of serious environmental losses.” It said some rollbacks were an attempt to fulfill the demands of the trio of creditors, the , the and the , that have been sustaining Greece in recent years. But it said that, to an equal extent, the losses were because of initiatives put forward by various ministries.

No project, however, appears to have elicited more of a public outcry than the resumption of mining operations in the mineral-rich hills here, where legend has it that Alexander the Great also mined for gold. Past mining operations here have been boom-and-bust enterprises, their fortunes swinging with the price of metals, leaving behind ugly piles of sandy gray tailings. Virtually everybody in the area has stories about the runoff from old mining operations, which turned the sea yellow at times.

But perhaps as much as anything, the anger over the mines is a reflection of the fundamental distrust many Greeks feel toward their government: a firm belief that most officials are busy enriching themselves, their friends and their families at the country’s expense. Nick Malkoutzis, a columnist for the conservative daily newspaper Kathimerini, wrote that it was hard to blame villagers for their distrust, when so often companies had been allowed to ignore regulations. “Perhaps in another country, locals would feel more comfortable with the project because the process for awarding public contracts or environmental certificates is transparent and trustworthy,” he wrote, adding that in Greece, that was not the case.

Opponents complain, for instance, that while making the deal with Eldorado, the government failed to make sure that Greece received a percentage of the earnings, a common practice in mining contracts.

And they believe the 50 million euro letter of the government got as a guarantee against any problems is not nearly enough.

A spokesman for Eldorado, Kostas Georgantzis, said the Canadian mining company had actually offered more, but that was all the government wanted.

Until recently, environmentalists were beginning to feel optimistic about Greece. Environmental issues dominated the political agenda after was elected prime minister in 2009. He established an Environment, Energy and Climate Change Ministry and appointed a noted environmentalist to head it. He talked with enthusiasm of and renewable energy.

But as Greece’s financial problems snowballed, the head of the ministry was replaced by the former finance minister, George Papaconstantinou, who is now embroiled in a scandal over whether he removed family members from a list of Greeks with Swiss bank accounts. Shortly after his appointment, the permit for Eldorado’s mining plans was issued, though it is still under review in the courts.

Officials of Greece’s environment ministry, responding in writing to questions, acknowledged that they were overhauling regulations with a view to making “modern environmental policies” go hand in hand with much needed investments. But they said the WWF report was “excessively negative” in its conclusions.

They also defended the decision to reintroduce mining in the Chalkidiki area, saying that northern Greece constituted a “wealth reservoir” of metals worth more than 20 billion euros based on current prices. The officials said the permit was issued after an eight-year period of preparations, evaluations and public consultations that ensured that the mining activity would not damage the environment.

In fact, the officials said, the new activity would ensure that the acidic runoff from abandoned mine operations would be averted and modern practices of waste management implemented.

The ministry officials said they were unable to explain the 50 million euro letter of credit because the official in charge of that was on vacation.

Eldorado has big plans for the region. It intends to invest one billion euros in various mining operations there, and its executives expect mining activities to last 15 years or more.

But some opponents question that too, noting that right now the price of gold hovers around $1,700 an ounce, making even the tailings left behind by past mining efforts valuable. Eldorado is already at work reprocessing those tailings, which still contain about 3.4 grams of gold per ton. But the new open pit mine is expected to produce only 0.81 grams per ton. What will happen if the price of gold drops?

Eldorado officials say the villagers need not worry because the open pit mine will also yield copper. But the villagers are not so sure.

The new mining operations have divided the region, in some cases setting brothers against each other. Most often it is those that live close to the sea, where tourists arrive in the summer, who oppose the project. Those that live in the hills where there is little work generally support it.

“These jobs mean that the barber and the doctor will have work too,” said Kostas Karagiannis, who has been working clearing the forest. “It is not just the miners who benefit.”

But opponents worry about dust and ground water pollution. In the last year, opponents of the projects, many of them retirees, have staged more than a half-dozen demonstrations, some of which have been broken up by police shooting tear gas and rubber bullets. Both sides point fingers. Mining officials say the villagers surrounded city hall and kept the mayor imprisoned for eight hours at one point.

But the villagers say that at one particularly large demonstration at the end of October, when 21 villagers were arrested, the police used brutal tactics.

Rania Ververidis, 62, said that she had been ordered out of her car and told to kneel. At that point, she said, a police officer had stomped on her ankle. She was still limping three weeks later, she said.

But she said she intended to protest more. She fears that Greece is in the process “of selling everything.”

“We can’t let that happen without doing anything,” she said.
273 2013-01-14 “First, I think he’s had a very, very distinguished public service record that he can stand on,” Mr. Powell said. “There are a lot of comments about different things he said over the years, and I think he’ll have a chance to respond to all those comments at the confirmation hearings.”

Another Republican, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, said on the ABC News program “This Week” that he had questions about Mr. Hagel’s “overall temperament.”

Mr. Schumer is also suspicious of comments by Mr. Hagel that seem to support a strategy of containment, in which the United States would accept Iran’s development of a nuclear weapon while seeking to prevent a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.

Mr. Hagel might need to fully reject that strategy in order to bring his position in line with President Obama’s and Mr. Schumer’s. During his race against Mitt Romney last year, Mr. Obama took a more forceful position against Iran.

As a senator from Nebraska, Mr. Hagel voted against several rounds of sanctions against Iran that ultimately passed the Senate. Mr. Hagel has said unilateral sanctions are ineffective, a position that is out of step with the Obama administration’s thinking. But in recent weeks, Mr. Hagel has sounded more hawkish about Iran in meetings with administration officials.

Mr. Hagel’s views on the militant Islamist groups Hezbollah and Hamas have also become issues. He was among only a handful of senators who declined to sign a letter to the European Union calling for the designation of Hezbollah as a terrorist organization.

Mr. Hagel has since said he does not believe in sending letters to foreign governments. He has also supported direct negotiations between the United States and Hamas, which governs Gaza.

Mr. Schumer will seek reassurances that Mr. Hagel now considers Hezbollah and Hamas to be terrorist groups, the person familiar with his plans said.

Mr. Schumer is also expected to ask Mr. Hagel about his disparaging statements about gay people — remarks he has since apologized for — and his views on abortion, particularly his opposition to allowing abortions for women in the military who have been raped, a position that has upset some Democratic women in the Senate.

Although Mr. Schumer said Mr. Obama should have discretion over appointments to his cabinet, people close to the senator said his concerns would need to be put to rest before he would support Mr. Hagel’s nomination.

Jewish groups that have met with Mr. Schumer have expressed reservations about openly opposing Mr. Hagel’s nomination for fear of inflaming their tensions with the Obama administration and deepening difficulties between the United States and Israel. Further, it would be a major break with the Obama administration for Mr. Schumer to oppose him.

On Sunday, Mr. Hagel continued to draw criticism from conservatives who share Mr. Schumer’s worries about Israel and Iran and have lingering concerns about Mr. Hagel’s criticisms of the Bush administration’s execution of the Iraq war.

Senator John McCain of Arizona said on “Face the Nation” that Mr. Hagel’s early opposition to the troop surge in Iraq was “bizarre.” Mr. McCain is the ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee, which will conduct Mr. Hagel’s confirmation hearing.
274 2013-01-14 NEW DELHI — President Mahinda Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka removed the nation’s chief justice from office on Sunday in the culmination of a widely criticized impeachment process that has crippled the nation’s courts and may precipitate a constitutional crisis.

Mr. Rajapaksa’s decision to sign a decree dismissing Chief Justice Shirani Bandaranayake came two days after Parliament, packed with Rajapaksa loyalists, voted to impeach her in defiance of a Court of Appeals ruling. The court had nullified the verdict of a parliamentary panel that had found the chief justice guilty of financial irregularities. Separately, the Supreme Court had ruled that the impeachment process was illegal.

Religious leaders, pro-democracy activists and lawyers groups have denounced the impeachment process as a naked power grab by Mr. Rajapaksa and members of his family who serve in his government. Lawyers across Sri Lanka boycotted courts on Thursday and Friday in protest.

Many lawyers have vowed to oppose anyone appointed to fill the chief justice’s post. Ms. Bandaranayake was seen as a Rajapaksa loyalist until she ruled in September that Mr. Rajapaksa’s younger brother, Basil Rajapaksa, needed to submit a $600 million development bill to the nation’s nine provincial councils before it could be approved.

In November, the governing party filed impeachment motions against her, and in December a parliamentary panel appointed by another of the president’s brothers found her guilty.

The United States government has repeatedly expressed concern about the impeachment process. Ms. Bandaranayake has yet to announce whether she will accept the president’s decision to remove her from office. She had earlier protested the rapidity of the parliamentary proceedings and her inability to confront or cross-examine her accusers.
275 2013-01-14 At the ruins of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala., where a bomb killed four girls on Sept. 15, 1963, he crafted his most famous column, “A Flower for the Graves.” Walter Cronkite was so moved that he asked Mr. Patterson to read it on the “CBS Evening News.”

It began: “A Negro mother wept in the street Sunday morning in front of a Baptist Church in Birmingham. In her hand she held a shoe, one shoe, from the foot of her dead child. We hold that shoe with her. Every one of us in the white South holds that small shoe in his hand.”

He also protested the Georgia legislature’s refusal to seat Julian Bond, the black civil rights leader, for opposing American involvement in Vietnam and supporting draft resisters. His exclusion was overturned by the United States Supreme Court in 1966, and Mr. Bond served 20 years in the legislature.

Mr. Patterson joined The Washington Post in 1968 as managing editor, succeeding Benjamin C. Bradlee, who became executive editor. The two led the newsroom in June 1971 when The Post followed The New York Times in publishing the Pentagon Papers, the secret study of American duplicity in Indochina. Nixon administration challenges to both publications were struck down in a historic Supreme Court ruling.

Later in 1971, Mr. Patterson left The Post and taught for a year at Duke University. In 1972 he became editor of The St. Petersburg Times (now known as The Tampa Bay Times) and two sister publications, The Evening Independent in St. Petersburg and Congressional Quarterly, covering the government in Washington. After the death of the publications’ owner, Nelson Poynter, in 1978, he became the company’s chairman until his own retirement in 1988.

Under Mr. Patterson, The Times’s liberal traditions flourished on Florida’s largely conservative west coast, with foreign and national news reports and strong investigative articles. In 1976, he insisted that news of his own arrest on a drunken-driving charge appear on Page 1 to show that the paper could be as hard on its own as it was on others.

Eugene Corbett Patterson was born on Oct. 15, 1923, in Valdosta, Ga., to William C. and Annabel Corbett Patterson. He grew up on a farm, did office work for The Adel News, edited a campus newspaper at North Georgia College at Dahlonega and majored in journalism at the University of Georgia at Athens, graduating in 1943.

He joined the Army in World War II, became a tank platoon commander in Gen. George S. Patton’s Third Army, and fought in the Battle of the Bulge. After Germany’s defeat he sailed for the Pacific, but learned on the way of Japan’s surrender. He became an Army pilot after the war, but left the service in 1947 to go into journalism.

In 1950, he married Mary Sue Carter. She died in 1999. Mr. Patterson, who lived in St. Petersburg, is survived by their daughter, Mary Patterson Fausch, and three grandchildren.

Mr. Patterson was a reporter for The Temple Daily Telegram in Texas and The Macon Telegraph in Georgia in 1947 and 1948 and worked for United Press in Atlanta in 1948, in New York in 1949 and in London as bureau chief from 1953 to 1956. He then became vice president and executive editor of The Atlanta Journal and The Constitution, both owned by Cox Enterprises, and four years later was named editor of The Constitution.

From 1964 to 1968, Mr. Patterson was vice chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, an appointee of President Lyndon B. Johnson. He was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors in 1977 and 1978, and served from 1974 to 1985 on Columbia’s Pulitzer Prize Board, selecting winners of those prestigious awards in journalism and the arts.

In 1981, Mr. Patterson was one of the few board members who opposed a feature-writing Pulitzer for Janet Cooke of The Washington Post for an article about an 8-year-old heroin addict, which proved to be a hoax. He objected because the article was about an anonymous boy and relied on unnamed sources. The Pulitzer was returned, Ms. Cooke resigned, and the episode was a profound embarrassment for The Post.

Mr. Patterson also scoffed at the idea of journalists posing as someone else to get a story. “If this becomes the standard for news coverage in America, then we have set a standard that young reporters are going to follow, and misrepresenting oneself, misleading, camouflaging one’s identity, will become a way of life,” he said in a discussion on the CBS News program “60 Minutes.”

In a newsroom with his sleeves rolled up or at an awards ceremony in a tuxedo, he carried himself with military bearing, a stocky, barrel-chested man with the rolling gait of James Cagney, whom he resembled in style and grit. Colleagues said he seemed always to be on the verge of a smile or a good idea.

“Every day you had to have an idea,” he said in 2003 of his column-writing years. “You kept your pockets stuffed with quotations and ideas and turns of thought, famous sayings that you could credit and work into your columns. At laundry time, you had an awful lot of chewed-up paper in your pockets.”

In 2002, a collection of his columns for The Constitution was published as a book, “The Changing South of Gene Patterson: Journalism and Civil Rights, 1960-1968.” He was the author of “Patton’s Unsung Armor of the Ardennes: The Tenth Armored Division’s Secret Dash to Bastogne” (2008). A chair in journalism was established in his name at Duke, where he was a trustee from 1988 to 1994.

In a 2008 interview with Florida Trend magazine, Mr. Patterson remembered a day when his daughter, Mary, then 9, called him at The Constitution. She was sobbing. Someone had shot her dog in the backyard. He hurried home. “I kept telling my daughter, ‘Look, we don’t know who shot her,’ ” he recalled. “But my daughter said she knew — that it was ‘somebody who doesn’t like what you’ve been writing in the paper.’ ”

“I tried to explain to her,” he said. “It was tough for a child.”

But there was no turning back. “You had to address the issue of race relations because the civil rights marchers were in the streets, the sit-ins were going on, the riots, the fire hoses, the police dogs, the killings,” he said. “This had to be addressed and not simply by reporting it, but by editors who would stand up and say what we had been doing was wrong, and we had to change.”
276 2013-01-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
277 2013-01-15 The Surface tablet has been on the market for nearly three months, and analysts say it has not done well....
278 2013-01-15 My music had always been deeply informed by my depression. Listen to what happened when it finally began to lift....
279 2013-01-15 The money you contribute to your child's college education may lead to lower grades....
280 2013-01-15 The South by Southwest film festival announces its opening-night film, which features Steve Carell, Steve Buscemi and Jim Carrey....
281 2013-01-15 Employers, not just employees, tend to chase investment returns and pick funds for retirement plans based on what has done well recently, a new analysis finds....
282 2013-01-15 The trail runs cold in the investigation of Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund billionaire who runs SAC Capital.
283 2013-01-15 "I also wonder if I'm training people correctly," said one owner....
284 2013-01-15 The program rewards riders who have earned 20,000 points in a year....
285 2013-01-15 Mike McCoy, the offensive coordinator for the Broncos who was a hot property on the coaching market, will replace Norv Turner as coach of the San Diego Chargers....
286 2013-01-15 When Nissan designed its stand for this year's Detroit auto show, one of the things it considered was how the stand would smell....
287 2013-01-15 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
288 2013-01-15 An 18th-century Chinese vase that sold for a record-setting $83 million at auction in 2010 but never paid for has now been sold for less than half that amount, according to Bloomberg....
289 2013-01-15 Fitch Ratings Ltd. warned Tuesday that Congress's failure to raise the federal government's statutory borrowing limit would "very likely" prompt a downgrading of the U.S. Government's credit rating....
290 2013-01-15 Nissan shows a replacement for the Versa hatchback at the Detroit auto show....
291 2013-01-15 A hybrid-powered concept that we are assured signals the look of future Nissan crossovers and could indicate the appearance of the new Murano....
292 2013-01-15 HMV announced on Tuesday that it had entered administration, a form of bankruptcy, as it became the latest British company to suffer from the country's flagging economy....
293 2013-01-15 Michael E. Mann, a climatologist at Penn State, promotes passage of a Pennsylvania bill that would subsidize energy retrofits and strengthen the state's renewable energy standard....
294 2013-01-15 Chelsea Clinton will serve as the honorary chairwoman of President Obama's National Day of Service, a call to volunteerism that will start the president's inaugural weekend....
295 2013-01-15 Paul Downs started by taking an online course on how to figure out the best allocation of resources -- labor, machinery -- in a factory. Can anyone suggest a good course in finance or accounting?...
296 2013-01-15 There has been no greater irritant to Turkish-E.U. relations than the enduring requirement that Turks obtain visas to travel to Europe....
297 2013-01-15 A court case filed by Precision Cars India, an auto importer, has led to warrants for nine Porsche executives and calls by the Indian government for help from Interpol....
298 2013-01-15 “With his broad scientific and medical background, he is ideally positioned to drive Roche’s strategy of translating a better understanding of disease mechanisms into promising therapeutics,” Severin Schwan, the chief of Roche, said in a statement.

It is not unprecedented for drug companies to tap academic scientists to run research. Sanofi’s research and development is now run by Elias Zerhouni, the former director of the National Institutes of Health and professor at Johns Hopkins. Mark Fishman, a cardiologist at Harvard, was recruited to run research at Novartis, and Peter S. Kim, who heads research at Merck, was previously a biology professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Dr. Reed, who has been on biotechnology company boards but never had a full-time corporate job, said in an interview that he was joining Roche to “have an opportunity to contribute on a larger stage, so to speak.”

At Roche he will oversee not only research but also early- and middle-stage clinical trials, something Sanford-Burnham does not do. He will supervise about 2,000 people with an annual budget in the billions, while Sanford-Burnham has about 1,200 people and a budget of around $175 million.

Dr. Reed, who will move to Basel, where Roche is based, said it was too early to discuss his agenda at Roche, other than to make its research more collaborative.

The operation Dr. Reed will run, called Pharma Research and Early Development, or pRED, does not include Genentech, the California biotechnology company that Roche fully acquired in 2009. In an effort to preserve the culture at Genentech, Roche left it autonomous, forming a group it calls gRED.

Recently, gRED has been eclipsing pRED. Roche’s three best-selling drugs, the cancer medicines Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin, were developed at Genentech. So have some of its most attractive experimental drugs, including T-DM1, a breast cancer drug that could win regulatory approval early this year.

The organization Dr. Reed will run, by contrast, has had its share of problems in recent years. Several hundred researchers were cut in a corporate reorganization. And last year Roche discontinued development of a heart drug after it failed to work in a late-stage clinical trial.

The troubles contributed to Roche’s decision in June to shut its campus in Nutley, N.J., the birthplace of valium. At that time, Jean-Jacques Garaud, head of the Roche unit that Dr. Reed will run, left the company and was replaced on an interim basis by Mike Burgess. Roche said Tuesday that Mr. Burgess would now also leave the company.

Sanford-Burnham said that Dr. Kristiina Vuori, its president and head of its cancer center, would take over as chief executive on an interim basis. Dr. Vuori, who is originally from Finland, has worked closely with Dr. Reed.

M. Wainwright Fishburn Jr., the chairman of Sanford-Burnham, said it was “bittersweet” to see Dr. Reed leave. While the institute will lose a very successful leader, he said, the move could advance the institute’s efforts to get drug discovery work from pharmaceutical companies.

“We have one of our own in one of the most influential positions around,” he said.
299 2013-01-15 Mickelson won four times on tour in 2005. The adjustment is not always so seamless. It took McDowell nearly two years to record his first victory with his new clubs. Golf being equal parts mechanical and mental, it is impossible to predict how a new club will affect a player’s swing or scores.

Change always carries risk, but McDowell has little reason to fret for McIlroy. “I think 20 years ago, it would have been a monster move and perhaps a mistake,” McDowell said last month. “I think as we sit here, there’s about 6, 8, 10 golf manufacturers on the planet that are making incredibly good equipment, and I don’t think there’s such a thing as inferior equipment nowadays.”

McIlroy, who had four PGA Tour victories in 2012, including his second major, said he had thoroughly tested the Nike equipment and was buoyed by the results. “I’m getting more distance out of the driver and the ball,” he said. “I’m comfortable with the irons.” He added, “I’m excited to put the clubs in play.”

McIlroy and Woods have forged a friendship, but McIlroy insisted he was not influenced by Woods. “I didn’t speak about it to Tiger,” he said, adding, “We didn’t talk about it at all until after it was all done.”

Of course, after it was all done, they filmed a commercial in which they try to one-up each other. The spot, which will start appearing this week, calls to mind a McDonald’s commercial in the 1990s featuring Michael Jordan and Larry Bird engaged in a game of Horse.

Asked last month about equipment changes during his tournament last month at Sherwood Country Club, Woods said it could take anywhere from a few weeks to more than a year to become comfortable with new equipment. “It’s worth it in the end if you get it right, and over the course of my career, I haven’t put anything in my bag unless I knew it was already better,” Woods said. “But that’s just because of all the testing I’ve done prior to that.”

He added: “Forget what it does on the range, or it’s important what it does on the range, but what is it going to do on the back nine on Sunday? Is this equipment, in general, is this going to help me win golf tournaments?”

After winning last year’s P.G.A. Championship by eight shots, McIlroy could be forgiven for feeling as if he could put persimmon woods in his bag and win. Only time will tell whether McIlroy’s gamble rockets him to the next level or fizzles.
300 2013-01-15 In words that came as a shock to almost no one, Joseph J. Lhota, the former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, suggested on Monday that he would probably enter the 2013 race for mayor.

“I wouldn’t have left the M.T.A., a job and a position that I’ve loved, if I wasn’t going to run for mayor of New York City,” he said in a lunch speech to the New York Building Congress at the Mandarin Oriental in Midtown.

Mr. Lhota’s comments were his first since stepping down from the authority on Dec. 31, after a brief but notable 14-month stint in which he was lauded for the agency’s quick recovery after Hurricane Sandy. Indeed, it was the agency’s handling of the storm, which one longtime watchdog described as bordering “on the edge of magic,” that prompted calls by fellow Republicans and others for Mr. Lhota to run.

No formal timetable has been set as to when Mr. Lhota, a former deputy mayor to Rudolph W. Giuliani, will set up an exploratory committee, or announce his candidacy. But he has been assiduously meeting with potential donors and Republican county chairmen and public officials about the contours and contents of a citywide run, said Susan Del Percio, an adviser.

Should Mr. Lhota enter the contest, as expected, he would join an increasingly crowded field on the Republican side. Among those considering a run are four former Democrats: Tom Allon, a community newspaper publisher; Adolfo Carrión Jr., a former Bronx borough president; John A. Catsimatidis, the owner of the Gristedes supermarket chain; and George T. McDonald, an advocate for the homeless.

Among Democrats, candidates like Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; Bill de Blasio, the public advocate; William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller; and John C. Liu, the current comptroller, will most likely vie for their party’s nomination.
301 2013-01-15 A single mother who used to work 15-hour days thought earning a paycheck was her top priority for her family, but when her eldest was suspended from school, she made a change....
302 2013-01-15 John Isner, who at No. 13 is the top-ranked American, pulled out of the tournament with a lingering knee injury. Mardy Fish, who began 2012 at No. 8, has fallen to No. 29, forced off the tour in recent months by heart-related health issues. Andy Roddick, the last American to win a Grand Slam singles title, at the 2003 United States Open, retired last year. Though Roddick has not played since last year’s United States Open, his ranking, No. 39, still puts him fourth on the American ladder.

“I mean, Serena’s probably the real leader,” Querrey said with a laugh when asked if he had emerged as the leader of the American men at this tournament.

The United States has won 12 Grand Slam singles titles in the nine years since Roddick’s 2003 triumph: nine by Serena Williams and three by her sister Venus. That ranks second over that time to the 16 that Roger Federer has single-handedly brought to Switzerland.

Though there is promise in the current crop of young American women, like Sloane Stephens, 19, and Madison Keys, 17, the focus for the American men has been expectation management.

“A little bit, we got spoiled over the years,” John McEnroe said Monday. “Accustomed to great things happening to us, with Connors, Sampras, Agassi, myself. It was a great history, and now we’re struggling.”

Of the Americans’ situation in Melbourne this month, McEnroe said: “It’s a little bit unlucky for us right now. John Isner is a guy that’s been in the second week, and he’s hurt, he’s not there. And Mardy Fish, who is currently someone whose illness has kept him out, is certainly someone who has maxed out maybe more than a lot of people including myself thought he was capable of, to eight in the world. Wasn’t able to handle, I guess, all the expectations and the pressure.”

The coach and television analyst Brad Gilbert also spoke of the need for reduced expectations for the American men.

“It’s like my Raiders,” said Gilbert, a Bay Area native. “We haven’t had a .500 season in 11 years. How about let’s just make the playoffs first?

“I think for us, now, it’s like, let’s get some guys in the top 10, let’s get some guys in the top 100. And I think the more guys that we have, I think it will make it easier for maybe that next level that maybe can make a breakthrough when there’s a lot more guys around to win a major.”

Like almost all his peers, Querrey does not speak of hastily trying to resurrect American tennis by himself. Though he improved his ranking from to 22 from 93 in 2012, he keeps his stated goals for ascendancy somewhat more conservative.

“I want to be a top-10 guy,” he said. “And I want to make the quarterfinal of a Slam.”

The exception to that restraint is Ryan Harrison, a 20-year-old ranked 62nd, who spoke Monday about his desire to reach the No. 1 ranking and win a Grand Slam event. Harrison’s results have lagged behind his goals; he has never advanced past the second round of a Grand Slam event, and only just notched his first career win over a top-15 opponent last week in Sydney, against a hobbled Isner.

“My goal with my career is to win Grand Slams and to be No. 1,” Harrison said Monday after a four-set win in the first round. “As far as that is away right now, because I have so many steps to get there, and I’m very realistic about understanding that.”

He added: “If somebody else is a little more relaxed and wants to surprise themselves all the time, then that might be what they like to do. But that’s not the way I do it.”
303 2013-01-15 Ms. Sebelius has given “conditional approval” to 17 states that want to run their own insurance exchanges. The 17 include Utah, where officials have said they are reluctant to perform some functions of an exchange.

In its application, Utah said it did not want to enforce the federal requirement for people to carry insurance and was reluctant to determine whether consumers might be eligible for federal income tax credits to help defray the cost of insurance.

“Those are clearly federal responsibilities,” said Norman K. Thurston, the health reform coordinator for Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah, a Republican. “We are not enthusiastic about enforcing federal tax policy.”

Federal officials granted conditional approval to some states even though state legislators had not provided clear legal authority or money to run an exchange.

Gov. C. L. Otter of Idaho, a Republican, received conditional approval from the Obama administration this month. But getting approval from the Idaho Legislature, where Republicans control both houses with large majorities, will be more of a challenge, state officials said.

Rather than judging their readiness at this time, Obama administration officials said they would work with the 17 states, setting timelines and milestones for progress toward creation of an exchange.

“There is no deadline,” said Gary M. Cohen, director of the federal Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. “We are going to give final approval once states demonstrate that they are able to satisfy all the requirements and meet all the conditions of operating an exchange.”

Federal officials are also allowing extra time to other states that might cooperate with the White House to some degree. Ms. Sebelius told states they had until Feb. 15 to file applications to operate exchanges “in partnership with the federal government.”

At a meeting here last week, Ms. Sebelius encouraged Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, an outspoken Republican critic of the federal law, to work in partnership with the federal government in running an exchange for his state, where 3.8 million people are uninsured.

Cindy Gillespie, leader of the health policy team at the law firm McKenna Long & Aldridge, said the Obama administration was trying to accommodate states within the limits of the law.

“It’s smart,” said Ms. Gillespie, who worked for Mitt Romney when he was governor of Massachusetts. “This is a respectful strategy. It shows deference to the states.”

Jay Angoff, a former administration official who served as a senior adviser to Ms. Sebelius, said: “There is no such thing as ‘conditional approval’ in the statute, nor is there a ‘partnership exchange’ in the statute. The federal government has the ultimate responsibility for making sure that an exchange is established in every state. So if a state that receives conditional approval is unable to do all the things it needs to do to establish an exchange by Oct. 1 — which is likely — then the federal government will run the exchange in that state.”

In all the states that received conditional approval, Mr. Cohen said, “there is more work to be done to be ready for open enrollment in October.”

Utah has had an exchange for small businesses for several years. To comply with federal law, Mr. Cohen said, the Utah exchange needs to offer coverage to individuals and help them enroll in health plans with advice from counselors, known as navigators.

It is unclear whether the State Legislature will approve the next steps. “I am opposed to using one dime of Utah state taxpayers’ dollars to comply with federal requirements for the exchange,” said Rebecca D. Lockhart, a Republican who is speaker of the Utah House of Representatives.

Federal officials said they were laying the groundwork for exchanges in Oklahoma and other states that refused to set up their own. But Oklahoma officials said they had not observed much activity. “We have not seen evidence of any steps to set up a federal exchange in Oklahoma,” said Kelly Collins, a spokeswoman for the State Insurance Department.

Julie J. Cox-Kain, the chief operating officer of the Oklahoma Health Department, said: “I assume the federal government is working quickly to build an exchange here and in other states. But the only evidence we’ve seen is a couple of telephone calls seeking information about state insurance regulations.”
304 2013-01-15 Parents saving for college costs, take heed: A new national study has found that the more college money parents provide — whether in absolute terms or as a share of total costs — the lower their children’s college grades.

Students from wealthy families are more likely than those from poor families to go to college, and those whose parents pay their way are more likely to graduate. But according to “More Is More or More Is Less? Parent Financial Investments During College,” a study by Laura Hamilton, a sociology professor at the University of California, Merced, greater parental contributions were linked with lower grades across all kinds of four-year institutions.

“It’s a modest effect, not big enough to make the kid flunk out of college,” said Dr. Hamilton, whose study was published in this month’s American Sociological Review. “But it was surprising because everybody has always assumed that the more you give, the better your child does.”

The negative impact on grades was less at elite institutions than at other private, expensive, out-of-state colleges. The higher graduation rate of students whose parents paid their way is not surprising, she said, since many students leave college for financial reasons.

Dr. Hamilton suggested that students who get a blank check from their parents may not take their education as seriously as others. She became intrigued with this possibility years ago, after spending a year living in a college dormitory and observing the students, then following them through graduation and, eventually, interviewing their parents.
305 2013-01-15 Bill’s letter got me thinking about the different ways animals are recycled in natural ecology and about how scavengers cleanse the world so there’s room for new life.

In many ways, this was a subject I’d been circling for a long time. Over the years, I’d studied ravens and beetles, scavengers who are key actors in natural recycling. I may have felt some affinity for them because we — my parents, my sister and I — had once been scavengers ourselves.

Yes. At the end of World War II, in Germany, my family escaped the advancing Red Army and lived in the forest. My father was an entomologist, a wasp specialist, and he believed the most awful place to be in a war was a city. We ate by scavenging. We trapped mice. I remember finding a dead boar, and my sister and I ate it.

But to return to Bill: I wondered if his idea was feasible. What if we put him out and no ravens came? I could imagine that even if they did eat him, there might be a human skull lying around and the next thing, the police would be up there. No, this wasn’t practical! I sent Bill a note saying that regrettably I could not help him.

But now I began doing little experiments on my property. I’d been working on a book about beetles and I thought this might make a chapter. So I put out roadkill — mice, raccoon, a shrew — and then watched for who came and how nature’s undertakers — burying beetles, maggots, gorgeous green bottle flies — broke the carcass down.

The entire scene was about transformation. A mouse would die and get eaten and it became beetles. Or its molecules could become part of a hawk or an owl. I looked at a moose and a deer carcass and I was fascinated by how quickly even big things disappeared in nature. So before I knew it, this chapter had grown into a book!

Did you find it difficult to work with roadkill?

Aside from the ick factor, a carcass is a very active scene. It’s not so much about death as life. The carcass provides a huge amount of concentrated food for the animals who are recyclers. So you get competition and all kinds of interesting animal behavior as they try to get access to it. If the food is being defended, that’s interesting. And if all kinds of animals want it, that’s even more interesting.

Some of the recyclers I enjoyed more than others. Ravens are very appealing. I’ve never met a raven I didn’t like. I can’t find maggots appealing, but after a while I did get used to them. Today I can watch maggots and find them quite interesting. Just this summer, I put out a raccoon carcass and it was almost consumed by maggots and there was nothing left, no meat whatsoever, in three days. And then, I saw a whole cohort leave, thousands of them, and they left the raccoon as a group, all in one direction.

What do you think was going on?

I still don’t have all the answers. I can give you some hypothesis. They were heading for the sun, moving towards light. They had to leave the carcass because they’d finished it off and there wasn’t any food left. Most creatures, if they don’t have food, they move on. Why shouldn’t a maggot? The question still is why did they all go at once? This was in the summer and if you move in a group, you reduce the surface area and lose less water. I’ll be doing more research on this next summer.

Many scavenger species have a bad reputation. In some cultures, there’s a hatred for vultures and ravens. Do you understand it?

It’s because of their association with death — they are blamed for it. Ravens get blamed a lot for killing a lot of things when, in fact, they mostly eat the dead and the nearly dead. It’s an illogical association that comes from a lack of understanding of what these animals do. Consider what would happen in the ocean if nothing ate the dead fish. Eventually, the ocean would be up to the top with dead fish. If there were no recyclers, nature would stop.

Many of the scavenger species are now endangered. What is happening to them?

With some of the larger scavengers — the condors and the vultures — we’ve hunted out their food base. There’s nothing left for them to eat. Also, we are using poisons to kill competitors for our own food sources — rats and mice. Then owls and hawks eat these poisoned rodents and die.

With some of the vultures, there have been population crashes because some of the medication fed to livestock is toxic to them. They eat dead cattle, traditional food, and then they die.

I was just reading about how the Parsis of India have sky burials as part of their religion. Lately, they’ve begun breeding vultures for their ceremonies because there aren’t enough wild ones left. It’s tragic. The ecosystem is very complex and we can’t know what will happen if these animals disappear.

Are humans and their remains part of that complex ecosystem?

I think so. But human death is becoming more and more divorced from nature. We pump our dead with polluting chemicals like formaldehyde, put them into airtight boxes and then plant them in precious real estate that could be used for agriculture. We think we’re denying death that way. The appealing thing about Bill’s idea was that he wouldn’t be consuming resources in death — his body would give back to natural world.

What ever became of Bill?

He’s still alive. Happily that sky burial hasn’t been required.
306 2013-01-15 The debt issue dominated the news conference, and later the secretary, , added to the pressure by writing to Congressional leaders that the department still expects to hit the limit between mid-February and early March.

“Treasury would be left to fund the government solely with the cash we have on hand on any given day,” he said, forcing it to choose among creditors, federal contractors, veterans, and beneficiaries and the many other claimants to federal dollars. Some Republicans support temporarily making choices among claimants, but the administration and some financial analysts say that approach would be unworkable and amount to the nation’s first default on its obligations.

Separately, Mr. Geithner and , director of the White House National Economic Council, held a conference call with corporate executives, many of whom have expressed concern the threat of default could damage the economy. The administration is hoping that business leaders can persuade Republicans to avoid confrontation over the debt limit, but party leaders were undeterred.

The chairman, , also called on Congress to increase the debt ceiling to cover bills that it has already incurred. “The right way to deal with this problem is for Congress to do what it is supposed to do and what it needs to do,” Mr. Bernanke, a Republican appointed by President and later reappointed by Mr. Obama, said in a speech at the .

On a separate topic at the news conference, Mr. Obama defended his record on appointing women and minorities to administration jobs, responding to criticism of the largely white male composition of his inner circle and recent cabinet nominations.

“I would just suggest that everybody kind of wait until they’ve seen all my appointments, who’s in the White House staff and who’s in my cabinet before they rush to judgment,” he said. “It’s premature to assume that somehow we’re going backwards. We’re not going backwards, we’re going forward.”

On the budget, Mr. Obama tried several times to emphasize that the debate over the debt ceiling was not one over how much the government should spend.

“I want to be clear about this: The debt ceiling is not a question of authorizing more spending,” he said. “Raising the debt ceiling does not authorize more spending. It simply allows the country to pay for spending that Congress has already committed to.”

He said that he agreed with Republicans that spending must be reduced to stabilize the debt. Unlike Republicans, though, he argued that such cuts should not be a condition for increasing the debt limit and should instead be part of other budget talks.

Mr. Boehner said the Republican-controlled House would pass legislation cutting spending and increasing the debt limit, and would defy Mr. Obama and the Democratic-controlled Senate to reject the package. : The Senate Republican minority leader, , in his own statement, also demanded spending cuts for a debt-limit increase.

House Republicans will meet for a retreat on Thursday and Friday in , Va., largely to develop plans to get through the three approaching fiscal deadlines. In addition to the debt ceiling, the automatic across-the-board military and domestic cuts will begin March 1 unless Mr. Obama and Congress agree to alternative deficit reductions, and the law providing financing for federal operations expires March 27.

“Yes, the House is going to act,” said Rory Cooper, a spokesman for Representative of , the House majority leader. But, he added, “We’ve got nothing yet until we can sit down as a conference and hammer out what we all want to do.”

Senate Democratic leaders are likely to act early next month on legislation that would allow the president to raise the debt ceiling on his own, both now and in the future. But just as the Senate would most likely reject the bill that House Republicans are considering, House Republicans would probably oppose the Senate Democrats’ proposal.

Under the contemplated Senate bill, Congress could move to block an increase in the debt limit, but lawmakers would have to muster a two-thirds majority in both the Senate and House. Still, Senate Democratic leadership aides say they are unsure of their party’s next move; Democrats might decide to wait until the House sends the Senate its debt-limit bill, with cuts Democrats consider unacceptable, and then seek to pass an amended version.

House Republicans have already listed cuts to programs including food stamps, children’s , , state and local grants to pay for antipoverty initiatives like Meals on Wheels and other programs. But their package underscores the challenge for even Republicans to meet their condition that spending cuts equal the amount of the debt increase.

Their tentative measure, combined with $550 billion in across-the-board reductions from other domestic programs, would save nearly $900 billion over 10 years — enough to raise the debt ceiling for about one year, forcing Congress to look for more cuts in 2014, an election year.
307 2013-01-15 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index ended lower on Monday as worries over demand for Apple products drove down its shares and investors braced for earnings disappointments.

Running counter to that was Dell’s stock, which rose 13 percent to about a five-month high at $12.29 after Bloomberg News reported that the No. 3 personal computer maker was in talks with private equity firms to go private. Dell’s gains offset some weakness in the technology sector.

Apple lost 3.6 percent to $501.75 and was the biggest weight on both the S.& P. 500 and Nasdaq 100 indexes after reports emerged that the company had cut orders for LCD screens and other parts for the iPhone 5 this quarter because of weak demand. The stock hit a session low of $498.51, the first dip below $500 since Feb. 16.

“With Apple, it seems as if the sentiment has shifted from this being the one stock that everybody wanted to own” to people starting to see it as a company whose business is “slowing down somewhat,” said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer of North Star Investment Management in Chicago.

Adding to investor unease, fourth-quarter earnings kick into high gear this week. Analyst estimates for the quarter have fallen sharply since October. S.& P. 500 earnings growth is now seen up just 1.9 percent from a year ago, Thomson Reuters data showed.
308 2013-01-16 “Let us pledge together to make these next four years the best four years in America's history, so that on its 200th birthday America will be as young and as vital as when it began, and as bright a beacon of hope for all the world.”
309 2013-01-16 Planners of President Obama's inauguration named eight "citizen co-chairs" attuned to his agenda....
310 2013-01-16 An internal report written by a management task force pointed to widespread failures regarding a bad bet on credit derivatives that cost JPMorgan Chase more than $6 billion....
311 2013-01-16 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Wednesday, selections include a developer who hired a Chinese company to do his job so he could surf cyberspace, a pessimistic look at i...
312 2013-01-16 A starkly designed house in Drammen is on the market for $1.6 million (8.7 million Norwegian kroner)....
313 2013-01-16 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
314 2013-01-16 The annual Eyes on Design Awards for design excellence at the Detroit auto show were presented to four winners on Tuesday night....
315 2013-01-16 On the eve of Lance Armstrong's interview with Oprah Winfrey, The Times's Brian Stelter talks about the fallen athlete as he faces the media.
316 2013-01-16 The Presidential Inaugural Committee held a news conference at the National Press Club Wednesday to preview this weekend's festivities....
317 2013-01-16 Technical problems with Boeing's new passenger jet prompted a touch of Schadenfreude in Europe, where some were asking whether what was bad for the U.S. planemaker could be good for Airbus....
318 2013-01-16 The New England tight end is a versatile offensive threat. He's also a rugged presence who can clear a path for other receivers....
319 2013-01-16 Goldman Sachs reported a fourth-quarter profit of $2.89 billion, or $5.60 a share, beating analysts’ estimates....
320 2013-01-16 Do you know what you will do with yourself after the sale?...
321 2013-01-16 Policy decisions that created tax exclusions and implicit subsidies have helped the health sector of the economy grow....
322 2013-01-16 In 2011, several groups, including Telecomix and Citizen Lab, raised concerns that Blue Coat products were being used to find and track opponents of the Syrian government. The company initially denied that its equipment had been sold to Syria, which is subject to United States trade sanctions.

Shortly afterward, Blue Coat reversed itself and acknowledged that the systems were indeed in Syria, but it said that the devices had been shipped to a distributor in Dubai, and said that it thought that they had been destined for the Iraqi Ministry of Communications.

The Citizen Lab research project was led by Morgan Marquis-Boire and Jakub Dalek. Mr. Marquis-Boire, a Google software engineer, has during the last year been involved in a variety of research projects aimed at exposing surveillance tools used by authoritarian regimes. He said that he carefully segregated his work at Google from his human rights research.

Last year, Mr. Marquis-Boire used computer servers to identify the use of an intelligence-oriented surveillance software program, called FinSpy, which was being used by Bahrain to track opposition activists.

On a hunch last month, the researchers used the Shodan search engine, a specialized Internet tool intended to help identify computers and software services that were connected to the Internet. They were able to identify a number of the Blue Coat systems that are used for content filtering and for “deep packet inspection,” a widely used technology for detecting and controlling digital content as it travels through the Internet.

The researchers stressed that they were aware that there were both benign and harmful uses for the Blue Coat products identified as ProxySG, which functions as a Web filter, and a second system, PacketShaper, which can detect about 600 Web applications and can be used to control undesirable Web traffic.

“I’m not trying to completely demonize this technology,” Mr. Marquis-Boire said.

The researchers also noted that the equipment does not directly fall under the dual-use distinction employed by the United States government to control the sale of equipment that has both military and civilian applications, but it can be used for both political and intelligence applications by authoritarian governments.

“Syria is subject to U.S. export sanctions,” said Sarah McKune, a senior researcher at the Citizen Lab. “When it comes to other countries that aren’t subject to U.S. sanctions it’s a more difficult situation. There could still be significant human rights impact.”

The researchers also noted that a large number of American and foreign companies supplied similar gear in what Gartner, the market research firm, described as a $1.02 billion market in a report issued in May 2012.

The researchers said that some American security technology companies, like Websense, had taken strong human rights stands, but had declined to grapple with the issue of the possible misuse of the technology.
323 2013-01-16 Big business is so fearful of economic peril if Congress does not allow the government to keep borrowing — to pay creditors, contractors, program beneficiaries and many others — that it is nearly united in skepticism of, or outright opposition to, House Republicans’ demand that Mr. Obama first agree to equal spending cuts in benefit programs like and .

That explains the administration’s outreach to corporate chiefs, like Monday’s conference call. Mr. Obama wants business’s support to buttress his vow that he will never again negotiate over so essential an action like he did in 2011, when the nation flirted with default and the economy suffered. Vexing Republicans, many business leaders are siding with him.

“I’m agreeing with the president — you should not be using the debt limit as a bargaining chip when it comes to how you run the country,” said David M. Cote, chief executive of , and a Republican. “You don’t put the full faith and of the at risk.”

As a new warning was issued Tuesday about a possible credit downgrade, even the hard-line conservative group Americans for Prosperity, financed by the billionaire Koch family, urged Republicans not to use the debt limit as leverage for deep spending cuts.

Another flash point between Republicans and corporate America: Even as they pocket big campaign contributions from business, many Republicans resent that the donors play both sides of the political fence. A senior aide to a House Republican leader summed up the feeling: “Corporate America isn’t the friend to Republicans that most people assume. So I think there is a healthier sort of skepticism that is brought into those meetings” with business leaders. (Chief executives still have some sway; no critics wanted to be identified slamming them.)

Some of the Republicans’ distancing from big business is a matter of political tactics — to alter their image as the party of wealth and corporate power. A writer for the conservative Weekly Standard said of the fiscal fight last month, “While big business cozies up to Obama once again, Republicans have an opportunity to enhance their reputation as the party of Main Street.”

A news release e-mailed in late December from the office of Speaker captured the changed dynamic. On a day when Mr. Obama met executives from the Business Roundtable, a group that for decades was close to Congressional Republicans, the subject line on the Boehner e-mail, abbreviating “President of the United States,” read: “GOP to Meet With Small Biz While POTUS Meets With Big CEOs.”

Courtship of business has been central to the president’s postelection legislative strategy, both to repair relations strained in his first term and to gain allies who might influence Republican lawmakers in the second. Yet Republicans on Capitol Hill profess bemusement, saying that administration officials misread their party.

“They trot out these big business executives and just assume, ‘Well, these guys are big business — if they just go tell Republicans what to do, they’ll do it.’ That’s just a cartoon version of how things work,” said a House Republican adviser.

But the White House was not alone late last year in believing that a group called Campaign to Fix the Debt — the biggest and best-financed mobilization of corporate clout in lawmakers’ memory, with more than 150 chief executives and $46 million — could create pressure for a bipartisan grand bargain of tax increases and entitlement program reductions to stabilize the federal debt.

There was no such deal in December, and people in both parties agree that Fix the Debt has had no impact so far. Yet the coalition is back: “I definitely think this is a marathon, not a race, so it’s not going to all happen when we want it to happen,” said Mark T. Bertolini, chief executive of and a leader in the coalition.

Privately, however, some Republicans in the group concede their advocacy has limits among the new breed of Republican lawmakers.

With each year, “you’re getting even further away from the big-city, corporate domination of the Republican Party,” said Merle Black, a scholar of Southern politics at . And if a Republican in a conservative district did back a deal with Mr. Obama, Mr. Black added, “It won’t get you very far if you say, ‘Well, I talked to the corporate guys and they’re all for this.’ “
324 2013-01-16 But it also says something about the long American romance with guns and the nation’s self image. “All of that ties into the frontier tradition, rugged individualism, a single American with a flintlock or a gun of some kind holding off the Indians or fighting off the British,” said Robert Spitzer, a scholar of gun control at the State University of New York at Cortland.

While Mr. Spitzer called that more mythology than reality, even he found himself using such references in a recent speech responding to comments by Wayne LaPierre, the N.R.A.’s vice president, after the Sandy Hook Elementary School attack. “My opening line was, his speech was a misfire; he missed the target,” Mr. Spitzer recalled. “I liked using the gun metaphor because I think it’s doubly appropriate for him.”

In that case, of course, he was doing it deliberately. And others use double entendre purposefully. The National Shooting Sports Foundation says on its Web site that it is “always shooting for more” to promote the future of sport shooting. For an editorial last week criticizing Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, for his past solidarity with the N.R.A., The New York Times used the headline, “Senator Reid Takes Fresh Aim.”

But much of the time, such phrases come spilling out without apparent irony. Candy Crowley, the CNN anchor, introduced an interview by highlighting “our conversation with N.R.A. point man Asa Hutchinson.” Christiane Amanpour on the same network featured a story about a Tennessee lawmaker known for supporting gun rights. “So why did the N.R.A. take aim at her?” she asked.

After Alex Jones, a gun rights advocate, erupted during an interview with Piers Morgan, the Internet lit up. As of Tuesday, the phrase “Alex Jones goes ballistic” drew 357,000 hits on Google.

The Brady Campaign found itself in the awkward position of using a firm called Point Blank when it needed help last month. Point Blank, named for the Bruce Springsteen song, had an archery bull’s-eye on its Web site. But it has since dissolved and one of its principals, Debra DeShong Reed, has founded a new firm, called Five by Five Public Affairs, that is now working for the Brady Campaign.

The Brady Campaign’s own name attests to the sensitivity of language in the gun debate. Gun control advocates these days generally do not use the term gun control; instead, they talk about curbing gun violence, recognizing that “control” stirs opposition among legal gun owners who fear their rights being trampled.

The use of gun symbolism has at times provoked controversy. After Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona was shot in the head by a gunman in 2011, many criticized Sarah Palin, the former vice-presidential nominee, for using cross hairs on her Web site to identify Democrats like Ms. Giffords who she said should be defeated for re-election.

Gun control advocates like Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden tend to draw less criticism when they use the language of guns. “We know that there is no silver bullet,” Mr. Biden said last week about stemming gun violence. But he said he planned to present an array of ideas to Mr. Obama that he hoped would make a difference. “I’m shooting for Tuesday,” he said.

At a news conference on Monday, Mr. Obama said he would review those ideas. But during a discussion on fiscal talks, he too used the terminology of firearms. “What I will not do is have that negotiation with a gun at the head of the American people,” he said.

Gun control advocates said such lapses are not surprising. “We do it, too,” said Mark Glaze, director of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, an advocacy group co-founded by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. “We notice and laugh, and we don’t think it goes to our core motivations. We kind of accept that there’s a piece of us that will always be based in the Old West.”

Mr. Glaze said he had slipped plenty of times. “I stopped feeling guilty about it a while ago when one of the survivors we work with somehow managed to squeeze in at least four gun references into a sentence that had nothing to do with guns,” he said. “Since then, I’ve let it go.”
325 2013-01-16 All Nippon’s vice president, Osamu Shinobe, told a reporters at a news conference at Tokyo’s Haneda Airport, “I apologize for the grave concern and trouble we have caused our passengers, their families and others.” He said the airline was still investigating.

Federal authorities in the United States have also voiced concern about problems the new aircraft has faced but still endorsed it as a safe airplane.

The Federal Aviation Administration last week ordered a comprehensive review of the 787’s manufacturing and design, with a special focus on the plane’s electrical systems. But in a news conference last Thursday, the Transportation Secretary, Ray LaHood, made no mention of a possible grounding of 787s.

Still, the review is unusual and comes 15 months after the 787 entered service after a lengthy certification process by the F.A.A. It comes during a formal investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board into what caused a battery fire in a Japan Airlines plane that had flown to Boston from Tokyo last week.

Late Tuesday in Tokyo, the N.T.S.B. said it was “currently in the process of gathering information about the B-787 emergency landing in Japan earlier today."

Eight airlines now fly the 787: All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines in Japan currently own 24 of the 50 delivered by Boeing since November 2011. The other operators are Air India, Ethiopian Airlines, Chile’s LAN Airlines, Poland’s LOT, Qatar Airways and United Airlines.

Boeing has sought to ease concerns about the plane’s design and reliability, and insisted it was no more trouble-prone than other new commercial airplane programs. The 787 relies more on electrical systems than previous generations of airplanes. Electrical systems, not mechanical ones, operate hydraulic pumps, de-ice the wings, pressurize the cabin and handle other tasks. The plane also has electric brakes instead of hydraulic ones.

While problems are common with early models — including with the first Airbus A380, the Boeing 777 or even the first 747s — analysts say the issue could become a growing embarrassment for Boeing if travelers or airlines begin to lose confidence in the plane.

So far, safety experts said that the problems with the 787 pointed more to teething problems than structural faults. But the problem is more than just one of reputation for Boeing: the plane maker has said it expects to sell 5,000 787s in the next 20 years, but analysts believe it will be years before it breaks even because of delays.
326 2013-01-16 A part-time student strode into the office of a longtime administrator at Stevens Institute of Business and Arts in St. Louis on Tuesday and shot the man in the chest, before turning the gun on himself, the police said. A hospital spokesman declined to discuss their conditions. Police Chief Sam Dotson said the suspect had no history of threats or violence. He said the gunman apparently sought out the victim.
327 2013-01-16 CAIRO — A White House spokesman on Tuesday condemned anti-Semitic comments made by President Mohamed Morsi before he took office, calling on him to “make clear this kind of rhetoric is not acceptable or productive in a democratic Egypt.”

In a three-year-old video clip that resurfaced recently, Mr. Morsi, then a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, urged Egyptians to “nurse our children and our grandchildren on hatred” for Jews and Zionists. In another video clip from 2010 that was recently distributed by a Washington research group, Mr. Morsi referred to “Zionists” as “these bloodsuckers who attack the Palestinians, these warmongers, the descendants of apes and pigs.”

Asked about Mr. Morsi’s anti-Semitic statements during a briefing at the White House, Jay Carney, the press secretary, said, “We have raised our concerns over these remarks with the government of Egypt.”

He added: “We completely reject these statements, as we do any language that espouses religious hatred. This kind of discourse has been acceptable in the region for far too long and is counter to the goal of peace. President Morsi should make clear that he respects people of all faiths.”

Representatives of Mr. Morsi have declined repeated requests to comment on the remarks, and on Tuesday they again remained silent.
328 2013-01-16 National health care spending has been rising at an unusually low rate for three consecutive years. Yet health insurance companies in some states with lax regulations are requesting and winning double-digit premium increases for some customers. That jarring discrepancy suggests that both the federal government and the states need more power to reject premium increases that can’t be justified.

The Affordable Care Act requires that proposed premium increases of 10 percent or more for small businesses and for individuals who lack employer coverage must be reviewed by state or federal regulators to determine if they are reasonable. Most states can reject increases found to be unjustifiable. But some states cannot; they simply rely on public disclosure to deter insurers from getting too greedy.

For example, in California, which lacks the power to deny excessive rate increases, three major insurers are proposing premium rate increases for 2013 of as much as 20 percent, 22 percent, and 26 percent for some policyholders. In New York, however, the rate increases for 2013 are far lower than what insurers requested because state law allows state regulators to roll back unjustified increases. For individual policies, the insurers sought an average 9.5 percent increase but were granted only 4.5 percent. For small groups, insurers asked for 15.8 percent but were approved for 9.6 percent.

For now, the slow rate of growth in national health spending — a modest 3.9 percent annually in 2009, 2010, and 2011, the lowest annual increases in the 52 years the government has been collecting such data — is good news. But experts don’t know whether this is a temporary, recession-related slowdown or a permanent downward trend. Insurers often claim that high premiums for individual policies are driven by rising medical costs in some states and younger and healthier people forgoing insurance in the slow economy, leaving only sick and costly patients signed up for insurance. That rationale should disappear in 2014 when virtually all Americans will be required to buy insurance or pay a penalty.
329 2013-01-16 An Egyptian human rights lawyer was convicted Tuesday of smuggling drugs into Saudi Arabia and sentenced to five years in prison and 300 lashes, Egypt’s state news agency reported. The case of Ahmed el-Gezawi caused an outcry in Egypt, where his relatives and human rights groups claimed he was detained for allegedly insulting the kingdom’s monarch. Saudi authorities said he was found at the Jidda airport with more than 20,000 antianxiety pills hidden in his luggage. His supporters said he confessed to the smuggling charges under duress. A second Egyptian who was traveling with him was sentenced to six years and 400 lashes. After he was detained, Egyptian protesters called for the expulsion of the Saudi ambassador and Saudi Arabia closed its embassy for a week in response.
330 2013-01-16 James Cerruti, a senior partner for strategy and research at the consulting firm Brandlogic, said that while Walmart no doubt wanted to get away from recent negative news like the factory fire, gun sales and a Mexico bribery inquiry, “these are real commitments.”

One beneficiary of the new effort, 1888 Mills, said an advantage was Walmart’s committing to contracts longer than the standard six months to a year. Jonathan R. Simon, the 1888 chief executive, said Walmart had given the company a multiyear contract outlining how and when it would buy the American-made towels.

That “allows us to make investments with confidence,” he said. “We’ve been staying with U.S. manufacturing and quite honestly, we’re one of the very last producers of terry towels left in the United States. It had been quite a challenge, keeping the operation going, but we stuck with it hoping that eventually there would be more opportunity.”

Mr. Simon said 1888 Mills made about 10 percent of its products in the United States, including towels in Griffin, Ga. While 1888 Mills had been supplying Walmart with foreign-made products, the retailer recently agreed to carry an American-made towel at 600 of its stores starting this spring.

Executives at Walmart told Mr. Simon that “especially in some of the towns where we manufacture that have been hit hard by the economic downturn, that these are Walmart customers and it makes perfect sense to try to support jobs here in the U.S. for people who end up shopping in their stores,” he said.

In the last decade or so, American manufacturers have moved operations to China, Bangladesh, Vietnam and other lower-cost countries as they try to meet retailers’ strict cost requirements. However, recent consumer interest in American-made goods, rising labor and energy costs overseas, and pressure to get merchandise from the design phase into stores within weeks rather than months have renewed interest in manufacturing in this country.

For instance, the United States turned out almost 100 million pairs of shoes in 2000, but that fell to about 26 million by 2009, according to the American Apparel and Footwear Association. In 2011, though, there was a rebound to 30 million pairs.

The association reported a similar trend in apparel, with about one-third of all apparel sold in the United States being produced in this country in 2000. By 2009 that amount had fallen to 2.1 percent, but ticked up to 2.3 percent in 2011.

Bill Kilbride, the president of Mohawk Home, a Walmart supplier that produced rugs and mats in the United States, said that although American-made products often cost more, Walmart seemed to find the speed with which domestic manufacturers could make and get items into stores compelling.

Even so, Kevin Burke, the chief executive of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, said the challenge for Walmart would be finding vendors who could meet its price points with American production, which was generally much more expensive than overseas production.

“The trend has been to be offshore,” Mr. Burke said. Overseas production is “indicative of consumer demand for product at a lower price.”

The 1888 Mills product made in the United States, for instance, would not be budget-priced, but would be “more in the luxury end of the business,” Mr. Simon, the 1888 Mills chief executive, said.
331 2013-01-16 “Many times in the past people asked me if I wanted to lead workshops for disabled people,” Adina Tal, president and artistic director of Nalagaat, said in an interview. “It did not interest me, though I thought it was nice that others did it.”

But about 14 years ago the Swiss-born Ms. Tal was approached to run a two-month workshop for members of a deaf-blind social club. She agreed and became captivated, she said, by the challenge of creating a new form of communication; the workshop evolved into a wandering theater company. In 2007 the troupe moved to its permanent home, the Nalagaat Center in the old Jaffa port of Tel Aviv.

“There was no other deaf-blind theater group,” said Ms. Tal, who is 59. “I always regretted that I’d been born too late to establish the state of Israel. This was a gift — a chance to invent the wheel.”

She began working through tactile-sign interpreters and with much squeezing of hands. “I did not have a clue,” she said. “Yet somehow inside I knew exactly what to do.”

Some social workers told her she was too demanding of her actors. “I may have been the first person who did not say, ‘Great!’ to everything they did,” she said.

The ensemble’s first production, “Light Is Heard in Zig Zag” (2003), about dreams and aspirations, came out of a long process in which the actors worked on improvisation, rhythm and body movement. Eventually the performers learned to express their emotions and fantasies in pantomime.

After three months of work a member of the group told Ms. Tal that all the pantomime was nonsense and that he wanted to do a Gorky play.

“I asked him: ‘How? You don’t hear, see or talk,’ ” Ms. Tal recalled. “He said: ‘That’s your problem. You’re the director.’ I said: ‘No, it’s your problem. You are the deaf and blind ones.’ We did not do Gorky because the whole strength of the group is that they are not like other actors. They had to create their own truth.”

Building on the actors’ senses of taste, smell and touch Ms. Tal explored the binding experience of preparing food. She had the troupe make salads and other basics, and the activity crystallized into the exercise of baking bread.

For “Not by Bread Alone” Ms. Tal also devised the method of using drumbeats as punctuation between scenes. After six months the performers had learned to feel and respond to the vibrations, giving them a new link to the seeing and hearing world.

“You come to see them, but through them you see yourselves,” Ms. Tal said. “To me that is art.”

At the Nalagaat Center audience members can have a pre- or post-performance meal at the Blackout Restaurant, where the flavors of the food and wine, served in the pitch dark, take on a special intensity. Blind waiters and waitresses glide around the tables wearing bells, and diners are given bibs.

The Blackout Restaurant and a mini version of Café Kapish, a coffee shop where the deaf or hearing-impaired waiters take orders in sign language, will be replicated at Skirball.

At the end of the show, as the trays of steaming bread come out of the ovens, the audience is invited onstage to have a sample. The actors mingle with the crowd, communicating through interpreters and touch — a reminder of the need for human contact, even when normal avenues of communication are closed.

It is a simple, universal message that Itzik Hanuna, who was born blind and became deaf at 11, powerfully conveys from the stage.

In a searing monologue he remembers being stuck in his bedroom as a teenager, alone with his thoughts.

“Generally I’m used to the darkness and the silence,” he declares in his distinctive high-pitched monotone. “But this time I was feeling them more than I could bear.

“I started wandering around the room. Suddenly I felt the touch of a hand. When someone touches my hand, I can feel that my loneliness starts to disappear.”

His friends had come to take him for a walk.
332 2013-01-17 Peter Liguori, a longtime television executive, was named the new chief executive after the newspaper and television station owner Tribune Company emerged from a four-year bankruptcy process....
333 2013-01-17 In his “Notes on Cinematography,” the great French director Robert Bresson argued against the use of music in films. “Noises must become music,” he wrote. Many of Bresson’s techniques and ideas — the employment of nonprofessional actors, the adaptation of naturalistic means to spiritual ends — have taken hold among European filmmakers in the past decade or so. Perhaps nowhere more strikingly than in the work of Bruno Dumont, whose second feature, “Humanité,” won the Grand Prix in Cannes in 1999, the year of Bresson’s death.

Mr. Dumont’s latest movie, “Hors Satan” (“Outside Satan”), is full of Bressonian music, provided by a sound mix that emphasizes footsteps trudging along rural roads, the heavy breathing of bodies in motion, the song of birds and the sighing of wind. Human speech is minimal, as are conventional elements of cinematic storytelling.

The two principal characters, played by David Dewaele and Alexandra Lematre, are identified in the credits only as “the Guy” and “the Girl.” They spend a lot of time wandering the fields and pathways of a drab and marshy northern French countryside, their mostly silent, idle days punctuated by spasms of violence and eruptions of metaphysical strangeness.

He is either a saint or a sociopath, or perhaps both, with a silent, watchful demeanor and what may be magical powers. He is protective of the girl, dealing brutally with the men who take a predatory or even mildly romantic interest in her, though he turns aside her sexual advances. In one of the first scenes he kills her stepfather, a crime that attracts mild concern from the local gendarmes.

The people in most of Mr. Dumont’s films, even though they live in a recognizably modern world, occupy a primitive, almost animalistic state of being, beyond the reach — or beneath the notice — of any civilizing force. But this brute condition also gives them special access to grace, as if dumbness were close to godliness. It is possible to find this notion intellectually dubious (I would suggest that it is hard not to) while still acknowledging the aesthetic power of Mr. Dumont’s fables, and especially of the sounds and images out of which he constructs them.

He and his cinematographer, Yves Cape, use the dense grain of 35-millimeter celluloid, natural light and shallow-focus lenses to distill poetry from plain faces and drab landscapes. Mr. Dewaele’s craggy features might remind you of David Carradine, while Ms. Lematre’s pale, smooth skin and impassive expressions have some of the eerie suggestiveness of silent-film heroines. They are fascinating to look at and also studiously opaque, perhaps in keeping with Bresson’s strictures against acting and in favor of performers “enclosed in the mystery of their appearance.”
334 2013-01-17 How do we distinguish fact from opinion in The Times, and in other news reports? In this lesson, students learn how news and opinion articles are labeled for clarity, then examine articles and opinion pieces on the sentence level....
335 2013-01-17 The cruise ship operator has sold shares in itself at $19 apiece, a person briefed on the matter said on Thursday, reaping about $446.5 million in proceeds....
336 2013-01-17 As the N.B.A. continues its plan to extend its brand globally, the Knicks played the Detroit Pistons before a sold-out crowd at the O2 Arena in London....
337 2013-01-17 Amazon has stepped up its competition against iTunes with a version of its MP3 store for Apple's iPhones and iPod Touch devices....
338 2013-01-17 At House Republicans' retreat to discuss the future of their conference, Representative Paul D. Ryan warned members that they have to "recognize the realities of the divided government that we have."...
339 2013-01-17 According to a new poll, 64 percent of Republicans think the president is hiding information about his early life....
340 2013-01-17 The popular talent show dropped in the category advertisers care most about, continuing the falloff from the huge ratings of earlier seasons....
341 2013-01-17 General Motors is planning to spend about $1.5 billion to expand its operations in North America this year....
342 2013-01-17 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
343 2013-01-17 In the last quarter, the money manager's customers opted for stocks or equities instead of the lower-risk bond investments that they had favored since the financial crisis....
344 2013-01-17 As China's economy looks to strengthen again this year, some are concerned that exotic investment vehicles may pose hidden risks that could cause real problems in a few years....
345 2013-01-17 Bode Miller has elected to skip the remaining portion of the World Cup season, along with the world championships, to give his surgically repaired left knee more time to heal. Miller had microfracture surgery nearly a year ago and said he did not want a setback with the Olympics so close, because another injury would probably end his career.

¶ John Teller of the United States won a freestyle World Cup ski cross event in Megeve, France. Alex Fiva of Switzerland retained the overall lead despite finishing sixth. (AP)
346 2013-01-17 In a telephone interview, Mr. Nikitin said his defense team had been bitterly divided at first. Its military experts wanted to emphasize that the materials he published were not classified, he said, but the legal experts, led by Mr. Schmidt, feared that a Russian court would not understand the distinction and argued that the focus should be on prosecutors’ procedural violations. Mr. Nikitin sided with Mr. Schmidt.

“He could be stubborn. He could be very tough,” Mr. Nikitin said. “Some people became convinced that he could not compromise. But he was right.”

Yuri Markovich Schmidt was born on May 10, 1937, in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg. His father, a political dissident, was arrested shortly after Mr. Schmidt’s birth and sentenced to 19 years in a prison camp. Mr. Schmidt became a criminal lawyer after graduating from the legal department of Leningrad State University in 1960.

He began representing prisoners charged with political crimes in the late 1980s. His clients included jailed leaders of political independence movements in the ethnic enclaves of Nagorno-Karabakh and South Ossetia as well as a journalist charged with defaming President Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan.

Mr. Schmidt often sought out clients: when a reformist St. Petersburg lawmaker, Galina V. Starovoitova, was found shot to death in an elevator in her apartment building in 1998, Mr. Schmidt found her sister at the funeral, hugged her and told her he would represent the family. His efforts helped lead to the conviction of a gunman and an accomplice in 2005.

His survivors include his wife, Elena, and two sons, Vadim and Mark.

Mr. Schmidt’s involvement in Mr. Khodorkovsky’s defense also began in 2005. Mr. Khodorkovsky had been arrested two years earlier after declaring his intention to challenge Mr. Putin in the political arena. He was convicted of tax fraud in 2003 and of money laundering and theft in 2010, and is expected to be released in 2014. Amnesty International considers him a prisoner of conscience.

In a statement, Mr. Khodorkovsky said Mr. Schmidt had continued to visit him at the prison, in a remote spot more than 700 miles from Moscow, “despite being gravely ill.”

“This kind of work is never easy, it can be dangerous, and it’s not very lucrative,” Mr. Khodorkovsky said. “But then, you never have to make any compromises with your conscience.”

Mr. Schmidt had expressed concern that in addressing rising crime and terrorism, the government was threatening to give the authorities more power and to remove legal and judicial protections. Such a move, he said in an interview in 2004, “would mean a rollback from the democratic achievements we have made.”
347 2013-01-17 Yet the Lobster Pound, Home/Made and Sunny’s bar, a cherished neighborhood stalwart, are among the businesses still closed, clouding the already forlorn air that hangs over Red Hook these days. Winter is always the neighborhood’s slow season, but this one is even quieter, with the nearest subway stop long closed for repairs, and Fairway Market, the giant grocery store that anchors the neighborhood, still shut.

“People are coming specifically to be in Red Hook and go to restaurants or shopping,” said Monica Byrne, who, with Ms. Swenson, owns Home/Made. “But it’s not nearly what we need at all.”

Hopes remain pinned on the reopening of the Fairway, where dozens of workers have descended like soldier ants, laboring to get the store up and running by the end of February.

One day last week, Howard Glickberg, whose grandfather founded Fairway, stopped with his son Dan Glickberg to check on the progress. Sixty new refrigerator cases had arrived. Workers were power-washing salt marks off the walls. The electrical cables running to the building from the on-site power plant would have to be replaced. Repairing and reopening the store, Mr. Glickberg said, would cost close to $10 million. “We want to open as quickly as possible,” he said. “All the local businesses say we’re a linchpin.”

Nine blocks up Van Brunt, just south of the Lobster Pound and beneath a leaden sky, a young man with a bushy mohawk and bejeweled combat boots sawed through metal posts. He was helping Ms. Swenson of Home/Made build new tables. Ms. Swenson and Ms. Byrne, partners in business and life, had already rewired the entire shop, installed new breakers and a boiler, and scrubbed, disinfected, primed and repainted the wood floor.

But problems kept surfacing. The combination unit for heat and air-conditioning refused to work, and the stove needed fixing. Still, they said they hoped to fully reopen on Valentine’s Day, and start serving brunch this weekend. “Just to get cash flowing in,” Ms. Swenson said, “and to figure out what we need to do to make it work.”

To the south, a block west off Van Brunt, in the back room of a dark and dusty bar, an old man was gently plucking a tune from a guitar. His face, curtained by steely gray hair, was fixed with a childlike smile, and his eyes were closed. The man, Sunny Balzano, is the owner of Sunny’s. He and his wife, Tone Balzano Johansen, enjoyed a very successful Internet fund-raising campaign after the storm, but repairs were creeping along, and being done entirely by volunteers. On this day, the repair team consisted of just one person, their friend Michael Horenstein, a carpenter who was fixing segments of the once-sodden floor.

The couple’s home next door still had no power, the first-floor furniture was piled high under thick plastic sheets, and they, along with their preteen daughter, were living out of their kitchen on the second floor.

“My life in a blender,” is how Ms. Johansen refers to it. She has stopped giving estimates on when the bar would open again, but said the support that had poured in had taken some of the sting out of the daunting, seemingly endless hurdles that lay ahead.

“The lows are incredibly low,” she said, “and the highs are incredibly high.”
348 2013-01-17 Less than three months after the Justice Department sued Meridian, Miss., after finding that school students there were routinely arrested without probable cause, a report by a group of civil rights organizations says that “overly harsh school disciplinary policies” are common throughout the state.

The report, which is to be released Thursday, found that in one Mississippi school district, 33 of every 1,000 children were arrested or referred to juvenile detention centers; that in another, such referrals included second and third graders; and that in yet another, only 4 percent of the law enforcement referrals were for felony-level behavior, the most often cited offense being “disorderly conduct.”

“The school-to-prison pipeline is nothing new in Mississippi, and it is certainly not unique to Meridian,” the report says. “In fact, it is a problem that has plagued Mississippi schools statewide for years.”

In addition to statistics, the report described episodes in which a child was taken home by the police for wearing shoes that violated the dress code, and a school where misbehaving students were handcuffed for infractions as minor as not wearing a belt.

The report also found that, over all, Mississippi imposed out-of-school suspensions at a rate more than one and a half times the national average. In several districts, the rate was more than 9 times the national average, and in one, more than 17 times.
349 2013-01-17 Public colleges and universities that compete in N.C.A.A. Division I sports spend three to six times as much on each athlete as they do to educate each of their students, according to a new report by the Delta Cost Project at the American Institutes for Research.

“Participation in intercollegiate athletics in the United States comes with a hefty price tag, one that is usually paid in part by students and institutions,” said Donna Desrochers, the author of the report. “Public institutions with Division I athletic programs have continued to invest significant resources in athletics, even as academic budgets were under strain during the recent recession.”

Between 2005 and 2010, on a per-capita basis, the report found, athletic costs increased at least twice as fast as academic spending at institutions with top-tier athletic programs.

“The Delta report confirms what a lot of college presidents have long feared: that intercollegiate athletics has become a financial arms race,” said Terry Hartle, a senior vice president at the American Council on Education. “Sooner or later, the increases will be unsustainable. I thought we would reach that point a decade ago, but it shows no sign of slowing down.”

Many college presidents would like to pull back on athletic spending, he said, “but taking significant steps in that direction would cost them their job, because the constituencies for increasing spending are numerous and powerful, and the counterpressures are few and relatively powerless.”
350 2013-01-17 If a school finds itself under threat, the job of the volunteer posse is to “eliminate the target,” said Mr. Donowick, 58, using the military language for shoot to kill.

Every morning, the volunteers go out in cars and uniforms just like those used by the Maricopa County deputies under Sheriff Arpaio’s command; there is no way to tell them apart. They roll by, scrutinize the people around the schools, looking for someone they feel does not belong, like “a guy in trench coat in the middle of summer” or a driver sitting in a parked car too long, Mr. Donowick said.

On patrol one morning, he carried a 9-millimeter Glock in his holster. In the trunk of his marked Chevy Caprice, he had an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle similar to the one used in Connecticut. Posse members bring their own weapons and buy their uniforms. They receive nine months of training before hitting the streets, and those who are armed — Sheriff Arpaio said there were about 500 of them — must be recertified every year.

As he pulled outside Kiser Elementary School here, across from alfalfa fields and next to Interstate 8, he smiled and waved to a teacher and her students as they made their way to class. He talked about the “halo effect” of a marked sheriff’s car, which can deter some criminal mischief simply by its presence. “Prevention,” he said as he drove off, heading west to another school.

Sheriff Arpaio created the posse in 1993 to patrol malls during the holiday season, when thefts in parking lots are common. Since then, the volunteers have gone on to take detainees to the county’s jails, escort dignitaries and help deputies serve warrants and support them during raids. It has retirees, including former police officers and military veterans, like Mr. Donowick, who served in Vietnam. An investigation by a local CBS affiliate, KPHO-TV, revealed that several of them also have criminal records — for assault, drug possession, disorderly conduct and other offenses.

Sheriff Arpaio said that they are “disciplined accordingly” and that he has “faith in them, faith in the posse.”

It began patrolling 59 schools in unincorporated communities in Maricopa County last week. They are mostly small, rural places where the sheriff’s office was already providing policing services, so he did not need to seek additional permission to add the school visits to his posse’s agenda. He did not contact the schools ahead of time and he did not need money to finance the program because the members of the posse do not get paid for their work.

They are, however, insured by Maricopa County while on the job. Mr. Campbell, who has his own plan to protect schools and toughen the state’s gun laws, said of the posses that he was “not sure how effective” their officers would be by simply driving around the schools without being on school grounds or interacting with teachers and administrators.

On Monday, in her State of the State speech, Gov. Jan Brewer proposed adding more financing to a program that puts armed police officers inside schools, an idea that has strong support among Republicans and Democrats but still needs legislative approval. She also expressed opposition to arming teachers, a suggestion by the state’s attorney general, Tom Horne, in the days after the shootings at Sandy Hook.

In an interview on Tuesday, Timothy Ogle, executive director of the Arizona School Boards Association, said, in a nod to the punishing rounds of state budget cuts school districts have had to endure for several years, that “politicians are talking about more money for school resource officers, but they have yet to fund the basic needs of our children.” He added that he would rather see the districts work with local police departments to figure out the best way to protect their schools.

Mr. Donowick, a lieutenant commander in the posse who coordinates the patrols in 24 schools, steered clear of the politics of school safety, saying he was “out here being constructive.” His job, he went on, is an antidote of sorts.

“I’m the good guy who is armed looking for the bad guy who is armed,” he said.
351 2013-01-17 ALBANY — Middle-class contributors are getting squeezed out of New York’s political process.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has condemned the influence of money in politics and promised reform. But his own campaign is a case study in how irrelevant small donors have become in New York. Over the last two years, only 1 percent of the money raised by Mr. Cuomo's campaign came from donors who gave him less than $1,000, according to an analysis by the New York Public Interest Research Group, while seven donors gave him $100,000 to $500,000.

Only about 5 percent of donations to the governor came from donors who gave less than $2,500.

The pattern is hardly unique to the governor’s campaign, though his numbers are perhaps the most striking, as he has built a $22.5 million war chest, according to new campaign finance disclosures made this week. New York has the highest contribution limits in the nation — $60,800 for statewide candidates — though there are a dozen states without any limits at all. The donation limit for federal campaigns is $2,500.

But even the high contribution limits in New York are easily evaded. The name of the governor’s largest donor, the real estate developer Leonard Litwin, does not appear in new campaign finance records, because he takes advantage of what has long been seen as a loophole in state laws — using limited-liability companies to legally circumvent the contribution limits. Mr. Litwin has donated $500,000 to the governor over the past two years.

Mr. Cuomo’s campaign is hardly the only case in point. The largest individual political donor in recent years has been Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. He recently flexed his political muscle by giving $250,000 to State Assembly Democrats; such large donations are permitted to campaign committees. He has already given millions of dollars to State Senate Republicans.

“No better case can be made for campaign finance reform that includes public funding than the results these candidates are posting,” said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, one of the main groups supporting tighter state laws.
352 2013-01-17 “Afghan military forces and police that operate effectively and with respect for human rights are central to the success of the U.S. strategy in Afghanistan,” said Cmdr. Bill Speaks, a Pentagon spokesman on Afghan policy.

Transfer of prisoners to Afghan control throughout the country was restored last year, after it had been cut off in response to a United Nations investigation published in October 2011 that found widespread use of torture at prisons run by Afghan police and intelligence agencies.

Now a second United Nations report on the subject is to be released, possibly as early as next week, and according to American officials the move by the security assistance force was prompted by revelations expected in that report. United Nations officials involved, however, had no comment.

Afghan officials denied there was any torture or abuse of prisoners while in Afghan custody. “I dismiss all the allegations of torture and mistreatment of prisoners in Afghan prisons,” said Amir Mohammad Jamshidi, general director of the prisons department in the Ministry of Interior. “I have not heard anything about Americans’ decision to halt or cut their support or transfer of detainees to the Afghan side,” he said.

But a spokesman for the security assistance force, Jamie Graybeal, said prisoner transfers had been suspended “as a result of information I.S.A.F. has determined to be credible.” He added: “In the remaining 23 months of the I.S.A.F. mission, we will continue to support the Afghan government in its efforts to improve problems identified.”

There have also been a series of concerns raised about the Afghan Local Police units, which are recruited and trained by American Special Operations troops in villages in heavily contested areas. Some of those units have changed sides, and been involved in serious abuses, including rapes and murders.

“We have formally requested that the Ministry of Interior investigate allegations of torture by the A.L.P.,” Mr. Graybeal said. “I.S.A.F. takes all reports of human rights violations seriously, and we are committed to the humane treatment of detainees.”

Both actions by the International Security Assistance Force were apparently in anticipation of legal provisions — informally known as the Leahy law, after its champion, United States Senator Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat — which prohibit Defense and State Department financing to foreign government agencies that practice torture or other human rights abuses and take no action to punish those responsible. At stake are billions of dollars in direct American aid that will essentially pay the salaries of every member of Afghanistan’s security forces for years to come — but which would legally not be payable under the Leahy provision if torture and other abuse continues.

“It is known that the Afghan security forces have committed abuses, including extrajudicial killings of civilians and the mistreatment of prisoners,” said Tim Rieser, foreign policy aide to Senator Leahy. “They have not been accountable in ways Senator Leahy believes they should be.”

Pentagon officials acknowledged that certain Afghan commanders had been identified as potential violators of human rights, and that steps had been taken to prevent Defense Department money from supporting those commanders and their units, in keeping with the Leahy law.

A spokesman for the NATO Special Operations Component Command in Afghanistan, Lt. Col. Tom Bryant, said there had been no financing cutbacks under the Leahy law to the Afghan Local Police program. He said it was continuing to grow, and had been extended from a five-year program, as initially planned, to one to be continued to 2025 by the Afghan authorities. He declined to comment on the security assistance force request that the Afghan authorities investigate accusations of Afghan Local Police torture.

“There has been some misbehavior by A.L.P., there are members who have violated Afghan law and who do things they shouldn’t do,” Colonel Bryant said. “Show me a police program anywhere in the world that is perfect.”

The Afghan general in charge of the program nationwide, Gen. Alisha Ahmadzai, acknowledged concerns about the forces, but said officials had acted to prosecute abusers and insisted that most of the 20,000 local police members did a good job. “We know that there are some problems and complaints from our local police forces about the A.L.P., and therefore we have arrested 65 or 66 local police officers, who were accused of murder, rape, theft, torture or dereliction of duty,” he said.

Colonel Bryant said in most places Afghan Local Police units had been important in fighting insurgents and had suffered three times as many attacks by the insurgents as other Afghan security forces, which he said was a measure of their importance in the war.

Recruited in their local communities and vouchsafed by elders in a process overseen mostly by Army Special Operations troops, the local police units receive less pay and training than normal police units.

“One of the beauties of the A.L.P. program is that it is Afghan-sustainable,” Colonel Bryant said, adding that by June, 15,000 of the local policemen would have been completely transferred from oversight by Special Operations troops to purely Afghan authority and support.

Critics of the program, however, have raised concerns that the local units are essentially militias with insufficient accountability to the Afghan authorities — echoing an initial concern of Mr. Karzai’s when the program was started.
353 2013-01-17 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Two days after a charismatic preacher swept into the capital surrounded by thousands of supporters, Pakistan’s government responded by rejecting his political agenda and hinting that an operation to dislodge him was imminent.

Interior Minister Rehman Malik told reporters on Wednesday that there were indications that suicide bombers planned to target the preacher, Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri, who is in a bulletproof container near Parliament.

Mr. Qadri and his boisterous supporters, estimated at 25,000 people, could be the subject of a “targeted operation” as early as Thursday, Mr. Malik said. “For the safety of the women and children in the protest, I request you to leave by tomorrow,” he said at a news conference.

Mr. Qadri, 61, who has demanded that the government resign to make way for a caretaker administration, insisted that he was standing firm, but also suggested the standoff could be resolved within a couple of days, although he declined to specify how.

“We are in the victory zone and about to achieve our target,” he told The New York Times, speaking inside the fortified container, mounted on the back of a truck, from which he has delivered several fiery speeches. “The march will be successful in the next one or two days at most.”

Earlier, the information minister, Qamar Zaman Kaira, mocked Mr. Qadri’s demands at a news conference, and accused him of using the many women and children among his supporters as “human shields.” But Mr. Kaira said, “The people will not stand by him.” The government was showing some teeth after Mr. Qadri managed to lead his supporters into the capital, despite numerous obstacles, leaving officials looking outwitted.
354 2013-01-17 Following is the statement issued Wednesday evening by the Federal Aviation Administration ordering the temporary grounding of Boeing 787s operated by carriers in the United States:

As a result of an in-flight, Boeing 787 battery incident earlier today in Japan, the FAA will issue an emergency airworthiness directive (AD) to address a potential battery fire risk in the 787 and require operators to temporarily cease operations.  Before further flight, operators of U.S.-registered, Boeing 787 aircraft must demonstrate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that the batteries are safe.

The FAA will work with the manufacturer and carriers to develop a corrective action plan to allow the U.S. 787 fleet to resume operations as quickly and safely as possible.

The in-flight Japanese battery incident followed an earlier 787 battery incident that occurred on the ground in Boston on January 7, 2013. The AD is prompted by this second incident involving a lithium ion battery.  The battery failures resulted in release of flammable electrolytes, heat damage, and smoke on two Model 787 airplanes.  The root cause of these failures is currently under investigation.  These conditions, if not corrected, could result in damage to critical systems and structures, and the potential for fire in the electrical compartment.

Last Friday, the FAA announced a comprehensive review of the 787’s critical systems with the possibility of further action pending new data and information.  In addition to the continuing review of the aircraft’s design, manufacture and assembly, the agency also will validate that 787 batteries and the battery system on the aircraft are in compliance with the special condition the agency issued as part of the aircraft’s certification.

United Airlines is currently the only U.S. airline operating the 787, with six airplanes in service. When the FAA issues an airworthiness directive, it also alerts the international aviation community to the action so other civil aviation authorities can take parallel action to cover the fleets operating in their own countries.
355 2013-01-17 “We are confident the 787 is safe and we stand behind its overall integrity,” Jim McNerney, Boeing’s chief executive, said in a statement.

The grounding — an unusual action for a new plane — focuses on one of the more risky design choices made by Boeing, namely to make extensive use of lithium-ion batteries aboard its airplanes for the first time.

Until now, much of the attention on the 787 was focused on its lighter composite materials and more efficient engines, meant to usher in a new era of more fuel-efficient travel, particularly over long distances. The batteries are part of an electrical system that replaces many mechanical and hydraulic ones common in previous jets.

The 787’s problems could jeopardize one of its major features, its ability to fly long distances at a cheaper cost. The plane is certified to fly 180 minutes from an airport. The government is unlikely to extend that to 330 minutes, as Boeing has promised, until all problems with the plane have been resolved.

For Boeing, “it’s crucial to get it right,” said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. “They’ve got a brief and closing window in which they can convince the public and their flying customers that this is not a problem child.”

The 787 uses two identical lithium-ion batteries, each about one-and-a-half to twice the size of a car battery. One battery, in the rear electrical equipment bay near the wings, is used to start the auxiliary power unit, a small engine in the tail that is used most often to provide power for the plane while it is on the ground. The other battery, called the main battery, starts the pilot’s computer displays and serves as a backup for flight systems.

The maker of the 787’s batteries, Japan’s GS Yuasa, has declined to comment on the problems so far.

Boeing has defended the novel use of the batteries and said it had put in place a series of systems meant to prevent overcharging and overheating.

In a conference call last week with reporters, Boeing’s chief engineer for the 787, Mike Sinnett, said that the company had long been aware of possible problems with lithium-ion batteries, but it had built numerousredundant features to keep any problems with the batteries from threatening the plane in flight. He said the batteries had not had any problems in 1.3 million hours of flight, and that Boeing was trying to understand what had caused the problems.

Mr. Sinnett said that if the lithium-ion batteries started a fire, it would be nearly impossible to put out because the batteries produce oxygen when burning. Mr. Sinnett said that the plane was designed to survive such an event in flight, when the cabin’s air-pressure system protects passengers and allows the plane to vent the smoke outside. The plane is also designed, he said, to contain a fire to a small area.

“Fire suppressants just won’t work on a situation like that,” he said in the conference call. “So something like that is very difficult to put out.”

Heat from the fire on the plane parked in Boston last week was so extreme that it melted the bolts holding the battery to the equipment rack. Firefighters had to use a hydraulic tool to cut it loose.

The solutions to the battery problem could be simple, analysts said, like encasing the battery in a stronger shell or monitoring the batteries more closely. But if Boeing had to switch to more conventional nickel-cadmium or lead-acid batteries, they would have to be larger, adding more weight to the plane and cutting into the plane’s fuel-savings potential.

Wednesday’s emergency landing was the latest in a string of incidents for the 787, which also included an electrical failure, fuel leaks and other smaller mishaps. But the latest event raised concerns that the 787’s problems were potentially more serious than thought and led to doubts about the plane’s safety and reliability.

Lithium-ion batteries provide power more quickly than conventional batteries and can be recharged quickly. They are increasingly used in cellphones, computers and electric cars but also have known risks of fires and explosions, particularly if they overheat or overcharge.

While the federal agency has recognized these hazards, it still decided in 2007 to allow Boeing to use them in the 787 as long as the company took a series of protective measures. At the time, the agency noted that “lithium ion batteries are significantly more susceptible to internal failures that can lead to self-sustaining increases in temperature and pressure” than conventional batteries.

As part of Wednesday’s emergency directive, the government said it would “validate that the 787 batteries and the battery system on the aircraft are in compliance with the special condition the agency issued as part of the aircraft’s certification.”

Eight airlines now fly the 787, which entered service in November 2011. All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines in Japan own 24 of them. The other operators are Air India, Ethiopian Airlines, LAN Airlines of Chile, LOT of Poland and Qatar Airways. Orders for about 800 additional 787s are in the pipeline.

The airplane’s six power generators produce enough electricity to power 500 houses. By contrast, the Boeing 777, a larger aircraft, can generate only a fifth of the 787’s electric power.

Replacing batteries on the 787 with different ones, like metal hydride batteries, is theoretically possible but would be costly, said Hans J. Weber, the president of Tecop International, an aviation consulting firm.

He estimated that different batteries could double the weight of the current systems and would be twice the size.

“It’s not trivial, but it could be done,” Mr. Weber said.

Boeing expects to sell 5,000 787s in the next 20 years. It is counting on the Dreamliner in the global sales battle with Airbus, its European rival, which plans to introduce its own carbon-composite plane, the A350, in the second half of 2014. Boeing has said that it outsourced too much of the work on the 787 to suppliers who were willing, collectively, to cover billions of dollars of the development costs, and many parts needed reworking.

Boeing has said it expects to average a percentage profit in the low single digits on the first 1,100 planes, which could include deliveries into 2021. But David E. Strauss, an analyst at UBS, cautioned last month that Boeing’s production costs might remain too high for it to make a profit on any of the plane sales before 2021.

While problems are common with the introduction of a new model — including the Airbus A380, the Boeing 777 and the Boeing 747 — analysts say the issue could become a growing embarrassment for Boeing if travelers or airlines begin to lose confidence in the Dreamliner.
356 2013-01-17 Asked for a response to Mr. Goldberg’s column, Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said: “I can’t confirm that specific comment or what was allegedly discussed in private meetings. The president has been clear in stating what he believes is a realistic basis for successful negotiations, and we will continue to base our efforts on that approach.”

The stinging criticism attributed to Mr. Obama made headlines in Israel, not least because of the timing. Months ago, Mr. Netanyahu was widely perceived as meddling in the American presidential campaign in favor of the Republican nominee, Mitt Romney. Now, some Israeli commentators posited, it is payback time.

Others suggested that Mr. Obama’s criticism could only help Mr. Netanyahu, a conservative who is battling political parties further to his right.

Tensions peaked last fall, before the American election, when Mr. Netanyahu publicly criticized the Obama administration for refusing to set clear “red lines” on Iran’s nuclear progress and said that, as a result, the administration had no “moral right” to restrain Israel from taking military action of its own.

The Netanyahu government’s frequent announcements of plans to build more Jewish homes in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and the annexed East Jerusalem have been also been continual sources of friction. Washington has long viewed settlement construction as an obstacle to peace. With the Palestinians demanding a settlement freeze before returning to the negotiating table, Israeli-Palestinian talks have been stalled for years.

Mr. Netanyahu blames the Palestinians for the stagnation, saying he is ready for talks without preconditions.

Soon after the General Assembly voted to upgrade the status of the Palestinians, the Netanyahu government announced that it would advance plans to settle a particularly contentious area of the West Bank known as E1. Mr. Obama “didn’t even bother getting angry,” Mr. Goldberg wrote. “He told several people that this sort of behavior on Netanyahu’s part is what he has come to expect, and he suggested that he has become inured to what he sees as self-defeating policies of his Israeli counterpart.”

Moshe Yaalon, Israel’s minister of strategic affairs, told Israel Radio on Wednesday that Mr. Netanyahu had led the country responsibly, and that some of his actions found favor with the United States and Europe while others did not. Asked about the timing of Mr. Goldberg’s column, so soon before Israeli elections set for Tuesday, Mr. Yaalon said that perhaps the journalist had chosen this “sensitive time” to publish it.

Mr. Goldberg, a columnist for Bloomberg and a national correspondent for The Atlantic, dismissed speculation that his column had been timed to influence the Israeli election.

“Think of the column as coming out after the E1 announcement rather than before the election,” Mr. Goldberg said by telephone. Arguing that American criticism of Israeli settlement building was nothing new, he added, “My column just reflects the ongoing concerns of the administration.”
357 2013-01-17 Or as Diana McLellan, the retired society columnist put it, “People spend a lot of money and time getting dressed to go, but even the best official balls are enormous scrums.” In particular, she remembers the one (and only one) given by Jimmy Carter, which was called a “party” rather than a “ball” to assuage recessionary guilt. It was in Union Station before it was renovated.

“And all there was to eat were peanuts,” she said. “It was like going to hell.”

Well, nobody ever said Washington was an easy town. That’s especially true during fiscally tricky times, which may explain the difficulties that the president’s inaugural committee had raising $50 million for festivities, after the most expensive presidential race in history.

Nor is the capital in a particularly jolly mood — what with all the fiscal drama, contested appointments and a Congress so embittered that it makes the one depicted in “Lincoln” look like a garden club. And let’s not overlook the fact that second inaugurations should be more subdued, “a little bit like a second wedding” according to The Washington Post Magazine.

But never mind. Even with fewer attendees expected, and the news this week that the Washington power couple Tony and Heather Podesta are divorcing, it’s still a festive week for all kinds of party animals, especially of the Democratic persuasion. Here’s a selective and highly curated list.

The power brokers atop the invitation should be a tip off — Buffy and Bill Cafritz, Ann and Vernon Jordan, Vicki and Roger Sant — for one of the most coveted tickets in town. Their 2009 edition was so star-studded — Tim Geithner here, Tom Brokaw, Ben Bradlee and Eli Broad there — that the Clintons couldn’t make it 10 feet past the door. And at least one movie star, an organizer claimed, was turned away. It wasn’t Glenn Close. She was inside.

Dolley Madison Ballroom at the Madison, 1177 15th Street, NW; Sunday, 9:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Invitation only.

With tickets starting at $10,000 a pair, expect the Creative Coalition’s Inaugural Ball to attract high-rollers and notable names, even if not quite like in 2009. The Goo Goo Dolls play this time for guests including Paula Abdul, Eric Stonestreet, John Leguizamo, Giancarlo Esposito and Johnny Galecki. Oh, and Tim Daly, too. He’s the president — of the Creative Coalition, that is.

Harman Center for the Arts, 610 F Street, NW; Monday from 9 p.m. Tickets from $10,000 a pair.

Michelle Obama and Jill Biden headline the Kid’s Inaugural concert, hosted by the presidential inauguration committee and held in honor of military families. Expected guests include Alicia Keys, the cast of “Glee,” Katy Perry and Marc Anthony. Mindless Behavior (the boy band) is also on the roster. A prediction of the days to follow?

While there are only two official balls, there’s no shortage of state society balls.And veterans know that these state balls have more food, drink and chances to hobnob with members of Congress. The standout is the Black Tie & Boots Inaugural Ball, sponsored by the Texas State Society of Washington, which promises six stages with performers, and truckloads of Texan food and drink. Gowns for women and tuxedos and boots for men suggested. Cowboy hats optional.

Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center (National Harbor, Maryland); Saturday, 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. $250 members; $275 for nonmembers (texasstatesociety.org).

Google is toning things down from its 2009 inaugural bash, which featured dancing, a game room and big names like Ben Affleck, John Cusack and Craig Newmark (of Craigslist). This time, the search engine (which has a big legislative agenda) is partnering with Elle and the Center for American Progress for a Leading Women in Washington brunch, toasting the record number of new congresswomen, many of whom are expected to attend. No binders full of women here, just the real thing.

National Portrait Gallery, Eighth and F Streets, NW; Sunday, noon to 3 p.m.: Invitation only.

Last fall, activists took the Kennedy Center to task for only including two Hispanics — Plácido Domingo and Chita Rivera — among its 186 honorees since 1978. Now a committee has been formed to address the issue. By happy coincidence (or is it?), Latinos take center stage for “ In Performance at the Kennedy Center,” hosted by Eva Longoria and others. Lineup includes Antonio Banderas, Rosario Dawson, Raúl Esparza, José Feliciano, Melanie Griffith, George Lopez, Rita Moreno and Ms. Rivera. Picante!

At the 2009 Peace Ball, Joan Baez sang “Forever Young.” This time around, sentiments may not be as hopeful. Still the ball, which is organized by Busboys and Poets, a much-loved Washington community bookstore and cafe, offers this cynical and compromising town a progressive and idealistic vision of tomorrow. Guests include Angela Davis, Amy Goodman, Ralph Nader, Alice Walker, Marian Wright Edelman and Danny Glover. Moby spins, too.

Arena Stage at the Mead Center, 1101 6th Street, SW; Sunday, 7:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets, $135, sold out.

Nancy Pelosi, always gracious at parties, will be the main attraction at the 2013 Speaker’s Cabinet Inauguration Luncheon and Concert, hosted by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. But Cyndi Lauper, in town to perform at the Human Rights Campaign LGBT celebration the following night as well, will be the entertainment (along with John Legend).

Even yogis are getting into the spirit of things with the Yoga Ball, sponsored by Off the Mat Into the World, and Yoga Votes, which promotes voting between oms and sun salutations. The evening includes asana yoga, a vegetarian dinner, music and meditation. Dress: spiritual.

St. Francis Hall, 1340 Quincy Street, NE; Sunday from 4 p.m.; $50 in advance, $60 at the door.

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel will be out and about, and no doubt at the Illinois Society State Ball on Saturday night. Mr. Emanuel is also hosting a Chicago-style after-party at the Hamilton (600 14th Street, NW). Co-hosts include Matthew Barzun (former United States ambassador to Sweden), Eva Longoria, Jim Messina and Julianna Smoot. Around the corner at the W hotel (515 15th Street NW), Electronic Arts is hosting an after party to promote an organization called Learn. Build.Create. It’s with Pharrell Williams, John Legend and Malin Akerman, along with Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles. Both are invitation only, with doors opening at 11 p.m – unimaginably late – by D.C. standards.
358 2013-01-17 BEIJING — The authorities in northwest China have detained seven people they say organized the fatal self-immolation of a Tibetan villager in October, photographed his burning body and then sent the images abroad.

The arrests, announced Tuesday by Xinhua, the official news agency, suggest that the Chinese government is increasing the use of its newest strategy against the politically motivated suicides in Tibetan areas of China: punishing friends and relatives of those who self-immolate.

The Xinhua report said a Tibetan advocacy group in India convinced the villager, Sangye Gyatso, a 27-year-old father of two, that self-immolation was a “heroic deed” and that it would improve his family’s standing.

A spokesman for the group, the Tibetan Youth Congress, called the assertions “ridiculous.”

With the accumulated toll of self-immolations approaching 100, Beijing has been scrambling to find effective deterrents to such acts, which began in 2009 as a desperate attempt to publicize what many Tibetans consider heavy-handed Chinese policies. In the early months of the crisis, officials sought to demonize self-immolators as terrorists or mentally deranged people. The authorities also locked down the most restive towns and monasteries, preventing monks from leaving or foreign journalists from entering.

Such measures appear to have done little to quell the protests, prompting officials to try new tactics. In Tongren County, in Qinghai Province, the authorities recently issued new regulations that permanently revoke public benefits for the families of self-immolators and cancel government-financed projects in their hometowns. If monks or nuns visit the home of a self-immolator, their monasteries are to be shut down as punishment.
359 2013-01-17 Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, the country’s largest bank, rose after both posted quarterly results that trounced analysts’ estimates.

Harry Clark, chairman of Clark Capital Management Group in Philadelphia, described JPMorgan’s numbers as staggering. The bank’s quarterly earnings jumped 55 percent and total revenue for the year hit $100 billion.

“Their earnings are just ridiculously good,” Mr. Clark said. “It shows you that these giants can make money in any type of environment.”

Slightly smaller financial firms, like Northern Trust and Bank of New York Mellon, reported weaker earnings and their stocks sank.

JPMorgan Chase gained 47 cents to $46.82. Its results were offset by an internal review of a $6 billion trading loss on credit derivatives. JPMorgan’s board criticized executives for failing to keep it informed of potential problems and using unapproved models for measuring trading risks.

Goldman Sachs gained $5.50 to $141.09, a 4 percent jump. Its profits nearly tripled in the fourth quarter of last year. Goldman’s bond underwriting business had its best year since the financial crisis, thanks to strong demand for fixed-income investments and companies lining up to borrow at historically cheap rates.

Genworth Financial jumped 9 percent, the largest gain in the S.& P. 500. Genworth, a financial services company, laid out a plan to reorganize its business, including putting its mortgage unit under a new company. Genworth’s stock gained 72 cents to $8.85.

Analysts forecast that companies in the S.& P. 500 will report a 3.2 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings. Financial firms and consumer-discretionary companies are expected to post the biggest growth, according to S&P Capital IQ.

The Labor Department said consumer prices were flat last month as gas prices sank. The December reading of the Consumer Price Index capped a year of tame inflation. Consumer prices increased just 1.7 percent in 2012, down from 3 percent in 2011.

The report led traders to push up prices for Treasurys, knocking yields down. The 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32 to 98 9/32 and the yield slipped to 1.82 percent. The yield, used to set mortgages and a wide variety of other loans, ended Tuesday at 1.84 percent.

Wendy’s rose 4 percent, or 18 cents, to $5.08. The hamburger chain, known for its Frosty shakes and square burgers, posted earnings that topped Wall Street’s estimates, even as a critical indicator of sales at North American restaurants dipped slightly.

Chipotle Mexican Grill dropped 6 percent. The burrito chain warned that its quarterly earnings would fall short of previous forecasts because it underestimated the hit it would take from higher food costs. Chipotle’s stock lost $16.38 to $280.94.
360 2013-01-17 Mr. Leung’s tenure in office has been star-crossed almost from the start. A plan for patriotic education, which had been under preparation for a decade, set off huge demonstrations, sit-ins and hunger strikes at the local government’s headquarters when schools began moving to introduce it two months after Mr. Leung took office.

The subsequent revelation that Mr. Leung had sealed up an illegal extension of his basement with a brick wall several days before he began his run for office — and then upended his opponent’s election campaign by accusing him of illegal basement construction — left him vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy. Even Mr. Leung’s moves to improve the affordability of housing have been troubled, as his steep taxes on home purchases by people without permanent residency cards have antagonized wealthy developers, who want to be able to sell their apartments to whoever will pay the most.

In his speech on Wednesday, Mr. Leung tried to change the political narrative by addressing the bread-and-butter concerns of the residents of Hong Kong, where an influx of money, much of it from the Chinese mainland, has led to yawning wealth disparities.

“While Hong Kong is a generally affluent society, there are still many people who live a hand-to-mouth existence,” he said. “Public resources should be devoted to those who cannot provide for themselves.”

Mr. Leung also promised to reduce air pollution, notably through the retirement of diesel trucks. He said his government would offer a total of $1.29 billion to the owners of more than 80,000 old, heavily polluting trucks, who will be required to retire them or replace them with new models.

The government said the plan would reduce roadside emissions of particulates by 80 percent and emissions of smog-causing nitrogen oxides by 30 percent.

While cars tend to draw more attention than trucks as pollution sources because of their greater numbers, American air pollution researchers working in Asia have found that the diesel engines in trucks and buses are a far bigger threat. They account for over 90 percent of vehicular emissions of particulates and nitrogen oxides in mainland China, studies have found. Some studies have also found that diesel exhaust is carcinogenic, but this aspect of Chinese air pollution has been studied less.

In a bid to blunt the criticism against his leadership, Mr. Leung has sought the support of young people, who have become increasingly active in the past year in street protests, which have traditionally drawn more middle-aged demonstrators. The city’s young people face higher unemployment than previous generations and more worries about housing affordability. But they also tend to be sympathetic to environmental concerns about encroachment on the city’s many hillside parks, which developers regard as a hindrance.

“Our young people should recognize that the planning proposals and development options under discussion today are intended to address their future needs,” Mr. Leung said. “It is all too easy for the government to sidestep the problem, but it is today’s young people who will have to bear the adverse consequences in the future.”
361 2013-01-18 The flashing lights that make Select Bus Service buses stand out have long prompted complaints, and now the Metropolitan Transportation Authority says they will be turned off....
362 2013-01-18 President Obama begins his second term in office and Times reporters in Washington will be providing live updates and analysis throughout the day. Post a comment | Tweets via @TheCaucus
363 2013-01-18 The Season 2 premiere of "Girls" drew fewer viewers than the series premiere did last year....
364 2013-01-18 Days after posting a jump in profit, Goldman Sachs said the bank's chief executive and chairman had been granted restricted stock valued at $13.3 million for 2012, which is expected to bring his total compensation to $21 million....
365 2013-01-18 The casting director for "Les Misérables" says that until Hugh Jackman delivered a hair-raising audition, she wasn't sure it was possible to find a Valjean....
366 2013-01-18 Bucks readers weigh in on the merits of paying some (but not a lot of) money for help with investments....
367 2013-01-18 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
368 2013-01-18 Credit: Matthew Staver for The New York Times
369 2013-01-18 The lithium-ion battery in the grounded Boeing 787 Dreamliner is different from the batteries used in electric vehicles....
370 2013-01-18 When this owner’s boutique advertising agency suggests outreach, the reaction has been one of surprise, intrigue and excitement — followed by little or no action....
371 2013-01-18 President Obama's inauguration festivities at the Capitol will have a distinctly New York flair, thanks to the man who is running them: the ultimate New Yorker, Senator Charles E. Schumer....
372 2013-01-18 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
373 2013-01-18 Hun Sen’s influence over Cambodian song and dance may be his most insidious form of control....
374 2013-01-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
375 2013-01-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
376 2013-01-18 Citing a lack of evidence, a federal judge in Florida on Thursday dismissed terrorism support and conspiracy charges against the younger of two Muslim clerics accused of funneling thousands of dollars to the Pakistani Taliban. Judge Robert N. Scola Jr. of the United District Court for the Southern District of Florida ruled that “no rational trier of fact” could convict Izhar Khan, 26, who is an imam at a mosque in suburban Margate, north of Fort Lauderdale. The case against Mr. Khan’s father, Hafiz, 77, is continuing. Prosecutors said Hafiz Khan orchestrated the sending of about $50,000 to the Pakistani Taliban between 2008 and 2010.
377 2013-01-18 His doping confession could mean more legal trouble for Lance Armstrong, who already faces several civil lawsuits, including a federal whistle-blower case filed in 2010 by his former teammate Floyd Landis.

Landis said Armstrong and several team officials from Armstrong’s United States Postal Service cycling team defrauded the government by allowing doping on the squad when the team’s contract with the Postal Service explicitly forbade it.

Armstrong and his lawyers have been negotiating with the government to settle the case, with Armstrong offering a payment of $5 million, while the government is asking for much more than that, said one person with knowledge of the discussions. That person did not want to be identified because the case is under seal.

Tim Herman, one of Armstrong’s lawyers, did not immediately respond to a request for comment late Thursday.

The government asked a judge for an extension Thursday to decide whether to join the case as a plaintiff and was granted it, the person said.
378 2013-01-18 Four members of the armed forces who have served in Afghanistan and Iraq will take a whirl on the dance floor Monday night with President Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and their wives....
379 2013-01-18 The team confirmed the hiring in a news release, saying Arians received a four-year contract with a club option for a fifth year.

Arians, a 60-year-old longtime assistant, went 9-3 as the Colts’ interim head coach while Chuck Pagano was undergoing treatment for leukemia last season.

Arians also was a finalist for the Chicago job that went to Marc Trestman. He was the sixth known candidate interviewed to replace Ken Whisenhunt, whom Arizona fired after six seasons. Whisenhunt was introduced on Thursday as the offensive coordinator for new head coach Mike McCoy in San Diego.

JACKSONVILLE NAMES COACH The Jaguars have hired the Seattle defensive coordinator Gus Bradley as the franchise’s fifth head coach, the latest move in a rebuilding project.

Bradley, 46, joins General Manager Dave Caldwell, who led the coaching search after being hired last week.

Bradley spent the last four seasons in Seattle, earning a reputation as an assistant who demanded — and often got — the most from his defense. It improved each of the last three years and finished in the top 10 in points and yards the last two.

Seattle moved quickly to fill Bradley’s position, hiring Dan Quinn away from Florida.

EAGLES INTRODUCE KELLY Torn between loyalty to his players and accepting a new challenge, Chip Kelly ultimately chose the N.F.L. and the Philadelphia Eagles. He just needed more time to make the decision.

“The hardest thing for me to do was to leave Oregon,” Kelly said at a news conference introducing him as the 21st coach in team history. “I knew it was a great fit, but it was whether I could leave what I have. I love those guys, and it had to be a special place for me to leave.”

The Eagles hired Kelly on Wednesday, giving him a five-year contract and ending an exhaustive search to replace Andy Reid. Kelly went 46-7 in four seasons at Oregon. COORDINATORS IN, AND OUT The Broncos have hired a new offensive coordinator: Adam Gase will be calling the plays next season, replacing Mike McCoy, who left this week to become head coach of the San Diego Chargers.

“While we did speak with several qualified candidates, it became clear that Adam was the best fit,” Coach John Fox said.

In the N.F.C., Rod Marinelli will not return as Chicago’s defensive coordinator.

The team’s new coach, Marc Trestman, said Marinelli had “made up his mind to move on.”

Marinelli is a longtime friend of the former coach Lovie Smith, who was fired by the Bears after they missed the playoffs for the fifth time in six seasons.

TITANS MAKE MOVES Tennessee Coach Mike Munchak has hired three new assistants — Sylvester Croom, Shawn Jefferson and George Henshaw — but Dowell Loggains will remain the offensive coordinator.
380 2013-01-18 A lithium-ion battery works like most other chemical batteries. A particle with an electric charge (in this case, a lithium ion) moves to one terminal when energy is applied, and the other terminal when energy is drawn off.

Lithium-ion batteries are actually a family of batteries because the chemistry of the terminal and other parts varies. They have a higher energy density, which means they can store more kilowatt-hours of work per unit of weight and volume than other chemistries.

But they have drawbacks. One is that while all batteries get warm, which makes some of their parts expand, the chemical soup in which the ions in a lithium-ion battery swim, the electrolyte, expands more than the electrolytes of other chemistries, experts say. Because a lithium-ion battery is always sealed, it has to withstand the pressure of the expansion. Otherwise, it will break open or break internally.

The electrolyte in a lithium-ion battery includes hydrocarbons. So it will burn or at least undergo a chemical reaction somewhere short of fire that generates heat and smoke. If the electrolyte in a lead-acid battery escapes, it will cause problems but it will not burn.

All batteries generate heat on charging and discharging. No rechargeable chemical batteries are 100 percent efficient. In other words, they never give back quite as much energy as was put into them. The energy that does not make the round trip ends up as heat.

If the lithium-ion battery is small, then it has a big surface area compared with the volume of its ingredients, and it can radiate heat well. If it is large, or if it is a pack of many cells, a cooling system has to be installed or a path set up for air to flow through.
381 2013-01-18 The shipping industries, fearful that the drought could cause an unprecedented extended shutdown, had in recent months called for the engineering corps to release even larger amounts of water from reservoirs along the upper Missouri River, which provides nearly half of the water flowing past St. Louis. They also urged the administration to speed work on removing the rock obstructions, which was not likely to begin, without a strong push, until February or later. They took the fight all the way to the White House, and worked with powerful lawmakers including Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate.

Mr. Durbin worked closely with White House officials like Pete Rouse, counselor to the president and a former Durbin chief of staff. He, along with like-minded lawmakers, urged the administration to speed the work on the rocks, and to keep the option of using the Missouri open.

But Mr. Durbin acknowledged that “if we have to face the Missouri River option, it’s going to be very contentious.” Such a move would inevitably set off lawsuits from states that benefit from the Missouri’s waters, arguing that the administration was violating the laws governing federally mandated uses of the Missouri.

In December, President Obama entered the discussion in a staff meeting, when he asked, according to Mr. Durbin, “Are we moving and doing everything we should?” Soon after, barges with underwater jackhammers, excavators and blasting equipment were working the river near the small town of Thebes, Ill., breaking the rock and scooping it away.

As for the Missouri River, a White House official said all options remained on the table, but the administration decided to rely on the advice of its engineers, who argued that a nine-foot draft (plus one foot of water to flow under the vessels) could be maintained without tapping the other river.

Despite the success in keeping the Mississippi open, the effects of the low water can be seen up and down the river, both in reduced barge traffic and in the disarray caused by receding waters. At the offices of JB Marine Service in St. Louis the other day, the company’s president, George Foster, listed to one side as he walked down the hall toward his office. The offices are on a barge that has floated in the river since 1976, but which is on dry land today. Now the floors are pitched at a 7.3-degree angle, and picture frames have shifted to a crazy angle that brings a carnival fun house to mind.

Mr. Foster does not like the comparison, growling, “It’s not fun anymore.” The grounding of his offices forced JB Marine to move into trailers. “I have been in this industry for 48 years, and I have not seen it this bad,” he said.

Even with the river remaining open, the companies that normally ship billions of dollars in goods up and down the waters each month have suffered, said Debra Colbert, a spokeswoman for the Waterways Council, a group that lobbies on behalf of inland carriers, operators and ports. Assurances from the corps that the river will be open through the spring are welcome, she said, “but the uncertainty about whether the water would be there when shippers arrived had been ongoing since early November, and economic damage was done as a result.”

Many shippers withheld barge runs out of fear that they would launch a shipment that, during its weeks upon the river, could get stalled by a closing. The light loads and smaller clusters of barges being pushed by tows mean that moving goods on the river became more expensive. “Just like the channel itself, shippers, operators and the U.S. economy got squeezed in this crisis,” Ms. Colbert said.

While the immediate crisis appears to have passed, General Peabody of the corps warned that cycles of drought could last for years, as the Dust Bowl showed, and that there are no guarantees when it comes to rivers. “We’ll continue to respond to what nature throws at us,” he said. But, he added, “There’s nothing that man can do that nature can’t overcome.”
382 2013-01-18 An intensive study of the long-range missile test-flight conducted by North Korea last month, one administration official said, found that it was “largely a success, if you define success as showing that they could drop a warhead a lot of places in Asia.”

The more immediate mystery for the administration, however, is what North Korea may intend with the intermediate-range KN-08, which was first shown off by the North in a military parade last April. At the time, many analysts dismissed it as a mock-up. In fact, it has never been test-flown. But parts, including the rocket motors, have been tested separately, according to officials familiar with the intelligence reports, who described the missile developments on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the assessments.

Officials familiar with North Korean missile technology say the KN-08 weapon is designed with a range capable of striking South Korea, Japan and parts of Southeast Asia — although with uncertain accuracy.

North Korea is aware that it is a focus of American spy satellites, so the decision to roll the missile around the country to potential deployment sites might well have been partly motivated by a desire to send a message to the United States, or at least to get Washington’s attention — which it did. Officials said that North Korea’s advancements in missile technology were among the most significant reasons that Mr. Panetta, as he approached the end of his tenure, had spent so much time in Asia. Much of his effort has been aimed at spurring the development of a regional missile defense system to be deployed with allies, particularly Japan and South Korea.

There is no evidence that the KN-08 has been fitted with a nuclear warhead. While North Korea conducted nuclear tests in 2006 and in 2009 — just months after President Obama took office — American intelligence officials have said that the North has not miniaturized a nuclear device small enough to be fitted as a warhead atop its missiles. Some believe that may be the goal of its next test — and perhaps, some intelligence reports speculate, of continuing cooperation on missile design between Iran and North Korea. The Iranians, one official noted, “are grappling with the same issues.”

In fact, much remains uncertain about North Korea’s new missile. There was no question where the mobile launching trucks that carried the missile came from: they are Chinese, and almost certainly imported in violation of United Nations sanctions against the North. The new missile, like most in the North Korean arsenal, appeared to be based on Russian technology.

The missile developments are among a number of steps that have convinced American officials that, a year after his ascension as the third generation to inherit the role as North Korea’s dictator, Mr. Kim is proving as confrontational with the West as his father and grandfather. American specialists also warn of the prospect of a third nuclear test, for which preparations are evident.

For the Obama administration, whose last diplomatic effort with the North ended in failure nearly a year ago, the steps are reminders that everything they have tried in the past four years to lure the country out of isolation — or at least contain its nuclear and missile programs — has largely failed.

If nothing else, however, the missile efforts in the North have spurred American efforts to build a network of antimissile capabilities across Northeast Asia. Japan already has one American X-band radar, officially known as the AN/TPY-2, which is a central element in a complex technical architecture for identifying ballistic missiles and coordinating a response by interceptors. And last September, during his travels in the region, Mr. Panetta and his Japanese hosts announced a major agreement to deploy a second advanced missile-defense radar on Japanese territory.
383 2013-01-18 A much smaller Brooklyn hospital, Interfaith Medical Center, serving Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown Heights, recently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, and a panel created by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has recommended improving the solvency and efficiency of it and several other hospitals through mergers.

Nancy L. Zimpher, SUNY’s chancellor, released a statement Thursday that did not dispute the audit’s findings, but attributed the financial problems to “the systemic changes facing health care facilities across the country.” She said the administration had new leadership, which was developing a “fiscally responsible plan” to keep the hospital and its teaching facilities open.

The audit said the hospital consistently lost money from 2007 through 2011. It portrayed a hospital that, like much of the health care industry, did not respond nimbly to economic forces. It faulted the medical center for not considering whether administrative salaries could be cut and for negotiating costly salary increases and fringe benefits in union contracts. Meanwhile, layoff notices were sent to 469 employees whose average salaries were $63,000 at Downstate and $41,500 at Long Island College Hospital.

The highest-paid hospital administrators at the time of the audit were Debra D. Carey, vice president of hospital affairs, with a taxpayer-financed salary of $552,556; Dr. John C. LaRosa, president, $382,311; and Ivan Lisnitzer, vice president for administration, $334,072, according to the comptroller.

Mr. Lisnitzer has since retired, and Dr. LaRosa and Ms. Carey have stepped down.

Mr. DiNapoli also blamed competition for patients, over-reliance on Medicaid revenues despite cuts in financing and the ill-advised acquisition of two hospitals, Victory Memorial Hospital in July 2008 and Long Island College Hospital, known as LICH, in May 2011. “Consultant studies used as justification for the purchase were based on flawed, unrealistic business assumptions,” according to Mr. DiNapoli.

LICH was once part of Continuum Health Partners, which runs several hospitals, including Beth Israel Medical Center and St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. The head of Continuum, Stan Brezenoff, had warned before 2011 that LICH was in precarious financial condition. But doctors, with the support of local politicians, fought to keep it open, and it merged with SUNY Downstate, in a deal brokered by then-Gov. David A. Paterson.

LICH had operating losses for 17 consecutive years before it was acquired and more than half of its beds, excluding those for newborns, were empty in 2010, the report said.

SUNY Downstate lost nearly $276 million in 2011 and its losses for last year could be over $200 million, the comptroller said.

A major medical teaching center, it employs about 8,000 faculty and staff members. If not for some shifting of money internally and additional payments from the state for treating a high number of poor, uninsured patients, “the hospital would likely be insolvent today,” the report said.

In addition to LICH, now officially University Hospital at Long Island College Hospital, and Victory Memorial, now known as SUNY Downstate at Bay Ridge, the medical center provides services at University Hospital of Brooklyn in East Flatbush.
384 2013-01-18 American Express reported Thursday that its fourth-quarter net income fell 47 percent, as the credit card issuer racked up charges related to reorganization costs and other one-time expenses. But the company’s adjusted results exceeded Wall Street’s expectations.

The company, which is based in Manhattan, had previously alerted investors that its earnings would be taking a hit in the October-to-December period as a result of booking about $594 million in after-tax charges.

The biggest portion of the costs pertains to a revamping plan that involves cutting some 5,400 jobs, mostly from the company’s travel business. The strategy aims to put the company in better position to cater to customers increasingly turning to online and mobile devices to shop, pay bills and make travel plans.

The rest of the charges were related to the company’s cardholder rewards program and for reimbursements of interest and fees.

Expenses aside, American Express was lifted by an 8 percent increase in cardholder spending during the quarter, which coincided with the holiday season, regularly a period of heightened spending by consumers.
385 2013-01-18 But even as it gets harder to sell PCs, Intel appears to have managed its business better than many investors thought possible. Revenue was in line with analysts’ expectations, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters, but net income was higher than the 45 cents a share that the analysts were expecting, on average.

Intel projected lower revenue and pressure on its profit margins for 2013, however, which sent its shares down about 5 percent in after-hours trading. Intel shares finished regular trading at $22.68, up 57 cents.

At the after-hours price, Intel’s market capitalization dropped below that of Qualcomm — a smaller maker of chips, but a company that makes chips for smartphones and tablets. Even a year ago, this would have been unthinkable.

Over the last six months, shares of Intel have fallen about 18 percent, while Qualcomm’s stock is up almost 20 percent. ARM Holdings, which sells designs for low-power chips popular in mobile devices, is up almost 90 percent in that time.

“Longer term, Intel will move more aggressively into smartphones,” said Bobby Burleson, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity. “But everyone worries about their long-term gross margins.”

Intel, which employs an engineering-focused staff of 105,000 people, plans to continue to invest heavily in research and development, as well as new manufacturing facilities. Intel operates on the principle that making the biggest volumes of the most advanced chips gives it a quality and profit margin advantage.

Despite the lower earnings, Intel said it would spend $18.9 billion on research and development, along with marketing and administrative costs, in 2013. Two years ago Intel spent $16 billion on those things, increasing that amount to $18.2 billion last year.

“Our manufacturing leadership becomes increasingly valuable,” said Stacy J. Smith, Intel’s chief financial officer. “People expect Intel to make more powerful, more efficient devices. That applies across all our businesses.”

That works, as long as the chips have buyers. Last year Intel hoped two PC industry initiatives would woo buyers back to PCs, but neither did. One, backed by a large investment from Intel, was in lightweight ultrabook laptop computers, many of which had tablet features, like touch screens. These came to market later than analysts had expected, at prices most consumers did not find attractive.

The other, Microsoft’s release of its Windows 8 operating system, has so far failed to excite buyers. Consumers and businesses did not buy new computers in order to use the upgraded system.

Mr. Otellini remained upbeat about ultrabooks, saying that there were now 140 types of the lightweight laptops on the market. The number of styles and different ways they use things like keyboards and touch screens, he said, would make it harder to tell a PC from a tablet.

“We’re in the midst of a radical transformation with the blurring of form factors,” he said, adding that this year Intel would introduce a new chip, called Haswell, which would help in the production of lightweight machines that have longer battery life. He said little about Windows 8.

Intel’s second-largest business, chips for computer servers in data centers, reflected an overall strength in that industry. Fourth-quarter sales to data centers was $2.8 billion, an increase of 4 percent from a year earlier.
386 2013-01-18 Keith Rowe is 72, and the instrument he’s been associated with for nearly 50 years is an electric guitar, laid flat on a table. Near the guitar are the things he uses for manipulating the sound of the guitar or interacting with it: flat objects of various weights and hardnesses, a couple of effects pedals, a small electric fan, a wad of steel wool, a small radio, an iPod, a sound mixer.

All of that lay before him on Tuesday night at Temp, the TriBeCa gallery space used for Amplify 2013: Rotation, a festival put on by Erstwhile Records and Issue Project Room. But he wasn’t touching any of it. He moved his hands across the surface of the table, creating hissing and rubbing sounds, supermagnified through sensitive contact microphones on the table. He was drawing, with pencil and paper. Beside him was another improviser, Graham Lambkin — a musician, writer, visual artist and former band member in the Shadow Ring. He sat at his own table, also drawing.

Mr. Rowe is part of a subset of improvisers who approach improvisation in nearly absolute philosophical terms. Starting in the mid-’60s, as part of the group AMM, he extended John Cage’s ideas about chance and nonintention in his own way. A Rosetta stone for the crew around Mr. Rowe was “Treatise,” by Cornelius Cardew, written between 1963 and 1967, a 193-page graphic score with few traditional symbols and no explicit suggestions of how to interpret it or what instruments to use. Mr. Rowe has been working with “Treatise” in one way or another for most of his life — even before it was completed, and ever since — and used some of it in the first half of Tuesday’s concert.

But Cardew’s bigger idea, that an improviser can build a language out of anything without relying on an established sound or idiom, was the night’s guiding principle. At his best, and the duet with Mr. Lambkin seemed pretty near that, Mr. Rowe constantly sets up and alters dynamic relationships among different sounds in a field, like a visual artist. He’s connected with his materials and uses fluid motions to keep the elements shifting, playing with your expectation and memory.

The performance was their first together. Mr. Rowe turned on the radio: salsa from a New York station. Mr. Lambkin drew lines along a ruler and traced circles around coins; he sliced across his paper with an X-Acto knife, making a sound much louder than the pencil. A blabby Geico commercial came on the radio, and as Mr. Rowe made small marks with his pencil — skrit skrit skrit — he triggered a recording of, appropriately, Pablo Casals playing the Bach cello suites. (Single lines in Bach, single lines on paper.) Mr. Rowe put his paper under the guitar strings and used them to guide his pencil hand; then he applied the steel wool to the strings, making an edgeless crumpling sound. Mr. Lambkin turned on a ghostly, barely audible cassette recording of Captain Beefheart’s “Well” and moved the cassette player around the microphones. Mr. Rowe made scissor cuts, loud and rude in their amplification, like pig snorts. Mr. Lambkin got into acrylic tape and plastic bags, ripping and sticking and scrunching, slow and deliberative and a little perverse.

It was a performance about motion and invention and constant reaction, and it had more spark than the earlier half: another first-meeting duet involving Mr. Rowe, with his usual setup — guitar, radio, etc. — and this time with Michael Pisaro, who is much more invested in composition with explicit instructions but also improvises with guitar, radio and recorded sound.
387 2013-01-18 LONDON — In his first public comments on the Knicks’ use of recording microphones at Madison Square Garden last weekend, N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said that he doubted there was any issue for him to address and that he would actually like to see “more mikes around” in league arenas so that the audio records of games would be “more robust” than they are now.

Speaking at a news conference in London on Thursday before the Knicks played the Detroit Pistons at the O Arena, Stern said that he was not aware of any rules that were violated in the Knicks’ decision to install courtside microphones at two recent games, one against the Chicago Bulls and the other against the New Orleans Hornets.

The microphones were placed at either end of the court at the direction of the Knicks’ owner, James L. Dolan, who apparently wanted to record everything said to and by Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony. On Jan. 7, in a game against the Boston Celtics at the Garden, Anthony seemed to become incensed at comments made to him on the court by the Celtics’ Kevin Garnett, who is known for saying things to rile an opponent.

In this instance, Anthony was so upset that he tried to confront Garnett after the game, which led the N.B.A. to suspend Anthony for one game. In turn, Dolan apparently decided to record Anthony’s on-court verbal exchanges so he would have proof of what was said to him, if other incidents arose in the future.

But that led to questions of whether the Knicks were overstepping by taping conversations without letting the other team know, and whether there was the potential for the Knicks to end up with all sorts of material — opposing coaches making derisive comments about referees, for instance — that they could use to their advantage.
388 2013-01-18 In New York, each side blamed the other for the breakdown and accused the other of hurling falsehoods. But what was clear was that the inability to reach an agreement, even with so much money as an incentive, was another sign of how frayed the relationship between the mayor and the city’s unions had become. The announcement came on the second day of a yellow-bus strike — the first in 34 years — that was called by the main bus drivers’ union, forcing more than 100,000 children, many of them with special needs, to find new ways to get to school.

In a statement, Mr. Mulgrew referred to the strike: “Thousands of parents have gotten a lesson this week, as the mayor’s ‘my way or the highway’ approach has left thousands of schoolchildren stranded at curbs across the city by the school bus strike. That same stubborn attitude on the mayor’s part now means that our schools will suffer a loss of millions of dollars in state aid.”

The teachers’ union has been working without a contract since just before Mr. Bloomberg’s re-election in 2009, a campaign in which the union declined to endorse a candidate despite its political and get-out-the-vote clout. It is clearly hoping for a more friendly administration next year, and is in turn being courted by several Democratic candidates for mayor.

“The fact of the matter is that as long as a Democrat wins, the union is better off, and I think that holds for all public employees,” said Kenneth S. Sherrill, a professor of political science at . “There is a long tradition of this.”

In the past two weeks, the battle over the evaluations has taken on the form of a political lobbying campaign, with each side and its allies sniping at each other and the union buying a $1 million television advertising campaign that accused the mayor of “going after teachers again.”

The loss of $250 million would mean the school system would have to claw back that amount of money — about 1 percent of the overall budget, but a significant amount of what is left after salaries and benefits are paid out — in the last six months of the academic year. In a complaint the city filed with the State Public Employees Relations Board in December, it warned that the failure to reach a deal could lead to larger class sizes, fewer teacher hires and cuts in support staff and after-school programs.

“We have yet to finalize our plans on how that would work,” said , the ’s chief academic officer.

The issue had its beginnings in 2010, when Gov. signed legislation that was used to persuade the Obama administration to award the state a nearly $700 million Race to the Top grant. The law, since strengthened, required school districts to replace old evaluation systems that usually issued one of two ratings: “satisfactory” or, in rare cases, “unsatisfactory.”

The new system has a four-tiered rating structure — “highly effective,” “effective,” “developing” or “ineffective.” The goal was to make the evaluations more meaningful and to make it easier for districts to fire teachers who were repeatedly rated ineffective.

The State Legislature approved the broad outlines of the new teacher evaluation system. Twenty percent of the rating was to be based on students’ growth on state tests. Another 20 percent was to be based on local measures, bargained with the union. Of the remaining 60 percent, classroom observations must be a majority of the criteria, but student surveys could be included.

The Legislature let each district negotiate the details with the teachers’ union, and the state set Thursday as the cutoff for those plans to be approved, though it said that approval could be made within hours of submission. Besides New York City, 3 small districts were the only ones of nearly 700 that did not make the deadline.

“Please hear me,” Gov. said Thursday morning, affirming the deadline. “There will be no extensions or exceptions.”

Mr. Bloomberg said the deal had fallen apart in the middle of the night after the teachers’ union made last-minute demands that he said would “undercut the intent of the law” — a statement the union disputed.

“There were things that they had come in at the last moment that were obviously designed to keep the deal from working,” the mayor said.

First, the mayor said, the union demanded that a so-called sunset clause be put in place for 2015, effectively making it impossible to get rid of ineffective teachers because the dismissal process takes two years. By the time a teacher would be dismissed, the evaluation system would no longer be in place, Mr. Bloomberg said, making a “joke” of the law.

“To have such a sunset clause would be a sham,” he added.

The union also demanded more ability for teachers to challenge the evaluation process than the city was willing to grant.

But Mr. Mulgrew said those issues had not been introduced at the last minute. He said that the city had not objected to a sunset clause earlier in the negotiations, and that other districts had agreed to a sunset provision.

“We have example after example of this mayor not being able to work with anyone,” Mr. Mulgrew said.
389 2013-01-18 A dancing Azarenka and an ankle-wrapped Williams had easy straight-set victories. Murray also won routinely, beating Joao Sousa of Portugal, 6-2, 6-2, 6-4, on Hisense Arena, the second show court at Melbourne Park.

“You need to be the one that’s trying to dictate the points in these conditions,” said Murray, who practices in Florida. “Miami is the perfect preparation. It’s hot and humid there.”

Williams went into Thursday’s match with an injured right ankle from Tuesday’s match. She did not seem troubled by the ankle, but did finish with a swollen lip after hitting herself with her racket.

“It’s O.K.,” she said. “It’s a war wound. I think it happens to everyone, but I have never busted it wide open like that. I was like, ‘Oh, no. I can’t have a tooth fall out.’ That would be horrible.”

Williams lifted her tempo on the biggest points, including when she finally won an 18-minute game to open the second set en route to a 6-2, 6-0 win over Garbine Muguruza.

“Usually I feel injuries after the match but, so far, so good. I felt pretty much better than I ever dreamed of expecting to feel,” Williams said of her ankle.

She later combined with sister Venus to win in the first round of doubles, showing no signs of trouble with the ankle.

In the final match of day, which carried into Friday morning, Laura Robson of Britain outlasted the 2011 Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova, 2-6, 6-3, 11-9, in a three-hour match.

The Melbourne-born Robson, who won a mixed doubles silver medal at the London Olympics last year with Murray, trailed 3-0 in the final set before coming back to win a match featuring 14 service breaks — seven by each player. Robson served for the match twice, failing to clinch it at 6-5 before getting another chance eight games later.

Despite the high temperatures, tournament officials left the retractable roofs on both main arenas open because a combination of factors including humidity and court temperature did not warrant making the venues a temporary indoor haven from the heat.

Ice vests and towels helped players keep their cool, and a women’s tour rule allowing a 10-minute break between sets was invoked late in the day, the tournament director Craig Tiley said.

“It’s always the referee’s discretion, but the lack of humidity helped us today,” Tiley said.

Australia sweltered through a week of record-high average temperatures this month, but the first three days of the Open were relatively mild.

The top-ranked Azarenka pranced into Rod Laver Arena for the first match of the day, and said she was starting to find some rhythm after beating Eleni Daniilidou, 6-1, 6-0, in 55 minutes.

“I felt like I’m back into the competitive mode,” Azarenka said.

The No. 94-ranked Daniilidou won only 10 points in the first set and was shut out in the second despite having triple break point in the fourth game.

Azarenka had the musician RedFoo, a friend, in the stands watching and signing autographs, and said she went onto the court listening to a “great mix of disco music and a little bit of new music.”

The heat did not seem to bother 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm, who advanced, 6-2, 7-5, over Shahar Peer of Israel. She is the oldest woman to win a singles match at the Australian Open.

Other women advancing included the former No. 1-ranked Caroline Wozniacki, No. 14 Maria Kirilenko, No. 16 Roberta Vinci, No. 20 Yanina Wickmayer and Elena Vesnina, who beat No. 21-seeded Varvara Lepchenko of the United States, 6-4, 6-2.

The former United States Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova beat 26th-seeded Hsieh Su-Wei of Taiwan, 6-2, 6-1.

Murray, who ended a 76-year drought by British men in Grand Slam tournaments with his win at Flushing Meadows last year, did not allow Sousa a single break-point chance.

Among the other men advancing were sixth-seeded Juan Martin del Potro, who beat Benjamin Becker, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2, and the 2008 Australian finalist Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who pretended to do push-ups to disguise a fall during his 6-3, 7-6 (1), 6-3 win over Go Soeda of Japan.

Bernard Tomic of Australia went through to the third round along with No. 9 Richard Gasquet, No. 13 Milos Raonic of Canada, No. 17 Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany, No. 21 Andreas Seppi of Italy and the Lithuanian qualifier Ricardas Berankis, who beat No. 25 Florian Mayer, 6-2, 6-3, 6-1.

Gael Monfils improbably advanced to the third round with a five-set win over Taiwan’s Lu Yen-Hsun despite the Frenchman having 23 double faults, including three on match point. Fortunately for Monfils, he also had 29 aces in the 7-6 (5), 4-6, 0-6, 6-1, 8-6 win.

Novak Djokovic, attempting to win his third Australian Open in a row, plays his third-round match on Friday against Radek Stepanek, while the featured women’s match will be second-seeded Maria Sharapova’s eighth career meeting with Venus Williams.

Sharapova holds a 4-3 edge, although Venus has won both times they have met in Grand Slams — at Wimbledon.
390 2013-01-18 1. If using brown rice or barley, toast first: Heat a medium saucepan over medium-high heat and add the barley or brown rice. Stir in the pan until the grains begin to smell toasty, about 5 minutes. Add the stock or water and salt (1/2 to 3/4 teaspoon) and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer 40 to 45 minutes, until tender. If all of the liquid has not been absorbed, drain and return to the pan. Place a clean dish towel over the top of the pan and return the cover. Let sit undisturbed for 10 minutes.

If using triticale, soak in 3 cups water if you have the time for 1 hour before cooking. Combine in a saucepan with the soaking water (or drain and use 3 cups stock), bring to a boil, add salt to taste, reduce the heat and simmer 45 to 50 minutes, until some of the grains have begun to splay. Turn off the heat and let steep for 15 minutes in any liquid remaining in the pan, then drain.

2. Heat the olive oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat and add the shiitake mushrooms. Cook, stirring, until they begin to sweat and color slightly, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic, sage, and salt to taste and sauté just until the mushrooms are tender, about 1 minute. Turn off the heat, add the regular mushrooms and 1 tablespoon of the dressing, and stir together. Stir in the cooked grains and the herbs. Add salt and pepper to taste.

3. When ready to serve, whisk the remaining salad dressing and add to the grains and mushrooms. Stir over medium heat until heated through. Add the endive, toss together and serve.

Advance preparation: The cooked grains will keep for three days in the refrigerator. You can prepare the rice and mushroom mixture through Step 2 up to a day ahead. Proceed with Step 3 shortly before serving.

Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 307 calories; 20 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 5 grams polyunsaturated fat; 12 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 29 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 58 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 6 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
391 2013-01-19 After less than a week of training camp, teams began playing the lockout-shortened 48-game season....
392 2013-01-19 Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden hosted the Kids' Inaugural Concert on Saturday night in Washington....
393 2013-01-19 Demonstrators rallied outside the Capitol in Albany Saturday to denounce recent legislation that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons....
394 2013-01-19 Lars Knudsen and Jay Van Hoy are behind three films, including one whispered to be the next "Beasts of the Southern Wild," that weren't finished until the final second....
395 2013-01-19 The screenwriter and actress Halley Feiffer writes about her experiences in the shadow of Sundance, beginning with a strange flight to Park City, Utah....
396 2013-01-19 President Obama begins his second term in office this weekend....
397 2013-01-19 "Escape From Tomorrow" was filmed inside the theme parks of a company incredibly vigilant about its image and intellectual property....
398 2013-01-19 Tiger Woods missed the cut at the Abu Dhabi Championship after he was penalized two shots for wrongly taking a free drop. Woods thought he was safe in finishing his second round at 73.

But he was advised by the European Tour chief referee Andy McFee of the penalty, giving him a 75 and a three-over total of 147. The cut for the top 60 plus ties was two over. (AP)
399 2013-01-19 State officials could begin to redirect a portion of $800 million in Title I and Title II-A grants — which are designed for the system’s poorest students and to help teachers develop — even before that deadline, regardless of whether the state approved any new evaluation plan.

State officials would likely begin to freeze the city’s $256 million in Race to the Top grants — which were awarded in 2010 — if no agreement appeared in sight by Feb. 15.

“Immediate action is necessary,” Mr. King said on Friday.

He added: “The grant was given by the federal government, for the state, to support a set of activities that would raise student achievement. And the city and its bargaining unit are refusing to do those very activities.”

In a conference call with reporters, Mr. Walcott said the school system would “make sure we definitely adhere to those timelines.” But he and other education officials said they hoped that state officials would look more closely at recent work to prepare teachers and principals for a new evaluation system.

Talks between the Bloomberg administration and teachers’ union, the United Federation of Teachers, fell apart around 3 a.m. Thursday, as each side blamed the other for the failure. But Mr. King said the state law mandating a new teacher evaluation system required both sides to begin negotiating anew, immediately.

In analyzing the breakdown, both sides said a major cause was disagreement over how long a plan should be in place before it sunsets, or has to be renewed. City officials said their vision was for any deal to never sunset. City officials criticized the union for seeking such a clause for 2015, just before any potential dismissal process could get under way. They called that bad public policy that they would not enact even if money was to be lost.

But Michael Mulgrew, the president of the union, said the process for dismissing a wayward teacher could continue even if the tenets of an evaluation plan subject to collective bargaining were in need of renewal, a position echoed by Mr. King. More than 90 percent of districts whose evaluation plans won state approval had plans that included provisions to sunset after a year.

Henry L. Grishman, the superintendent of the Jericho School District on Long Island, said that sunset clauses are routine. His district agreed with the union, the Jericho Teachers Association, to subject the evaluation system to renewal after its first year.

“The rationale is it gives us an opportunity to go back together, to see if the plan needs to be tweaked or revised in any way,” said Mr. Grishman, who has worked in education for decades. “They are anything other than a sham; they are an opportunity to revise, review and modify after an agreement is in place for a certain period of time.”

Roberta Gerold, the superintendent of the Middle County School District, on Long Island, said she did not consider the annual need to review, evaluate and resubmit an evaluation plan as a sunset clause. She said no one there would know if the district’s plan was successful until it “runs at least one full course.”

When the State Legislature approved the broad outlines of the new evaluation system, it left some measures to be bargained locally, rather than simply imposing one standard. That allowed for the breakdown in New York City, but the alternative might never have advanced this far.

“It would never pass the Legislature,” said Merryl H. Tisch, the chancellor of the state’s Board of Regents. “There is no way. Schools really are about local control.”
400 2013-01-19 Pictures From the Week in Business, Jan. 18
401 2013-01-19 MOSCOW — The government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich of Ukraine said Friday that it planned to bring murder charges against his political rival, the jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, in connection with the 1996 assassination of a member of Parliament.

The charges, which carry a potential sentence of life in prison if she is convicted, are the gravest accusations yet in a series of criminal prosecutions that Western governments have denounced as politically motivated and that Ms. Tymoshenko is fighting in the European Court of Human Rights.

The decision to bring a murder case against Ms. Tymoshenko was announced by Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Viktor Pshonka, at a news conference on Friday. He said that Ms. Tymoshenko, and another former prime minister, Pavlo Lazarenko, paid $2.8 million to have Yevhen Scherban, who was both a lawmaker and one of Ukraine’s richest businessmen, killed in a dispute over business interests.

“The material which has been assembled in the pretrial investigation shows that Tymoshenko indeed ordered the killing together with Lazarenko,” Mr. Pshonka told reporters in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.

Ms. Tymoshenko has been jailed since October 2011, when she was convicted on charges of abusing her position in connection with approving a contract to purchase natural gas from Russia. She has appealed to the European Court of Human Rights, complaining of judicial missteps and human rights abuses, and a decision is expected soon.
402 2013-01-19 WASHINGTON — In the latest twist in a high-level debate that has divided national security officials in the Obama administration, the Pentagon announced Friday that the top official overseeing the military commissions system would not drop the charge of conspiracy against Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and the four other defendants in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The chief prosecutor for the tribunals, Brig. Gen. Mark Martins, said last week that he was seeking to have the charge dismissed. But on Friday, the Pentagon unexpectedly said that Bruce MacDonald — the military commissions’ “convening authority” who oversees the tribunals system — was refusing to withdraw the conspiracy offense because the Justice Department was still arguing in a different case that the charge was legitimate.

Further ratcheting up tensions, General Martins has apparently told the military court, in filings that were not yet posted on a tribunal Web site but were referred to by a lawyer for one of the detainees, that prosecutors would nevertheless stand down and not fight a motion by defense lawyers as they seek to get the judge to dismiss the charge anyway.

The extraordinary back and forth added a new chapter to an internal administration dispute over whether to abandon conspiracy and other idiosyncratic American-style charges as offenses that may be brought before a military commission even though international law does not recognize them as war crimes.

In October, the federal appeals court in Washington vacated the guilty verdict by a tribunal in 2008 against a former driver for Al Qaeda on the ground that the charge “material support for terrorism” was not an international war crime.

The ruling raised the question of whether the government should keep fighting the appeal before the same court of another detainee who was also convicted by a tribunal of American-style offenses, including conspiracy. General Martins argued that the Justice Department should drop that case and allow the verdict against the second detainee to be vacated because pressing forward with arguments that had already lost could delegitimize the tribunals system.
403 2013-01-19 The grounding comes as the United States is going through a record stretch of safe commercial jet flying: It has been nearly four years since a fatal airline crash, with nearly three billion passengers flying in that period. The last airliner crash, near Buffalo, came after a quiet period of two and a half years, which suggests a declining crash rate.

Investigators in Japan said Friday that a possible explanation for the problems with the 787’s batteries was that they were overcharged — a hazard that has long been a concern for lithium-ion batteries. But how that could have happened to a plane that Boeing says has multiple systems to prevent such an event is still unclear.

Given the uncertainty, it will be hard for federal regulators to approve any corrective measures proposed by Boeing. To lift the grounding order, Boeing must demonstrate that any fix it puts in place would prevent similar episodes from happening.

The government’s approach, while prudent, worries industry officials who fear it does not provide a rapid exit for Boeing.

The F.A.A. typically sets a course of corrective action for airlines when it issues a safety directive. But in the case of the 787, the government’s order, called an emergency airworthiness directive, required that Boeing demonstrate that the batteries were safe but did not specify how.

While the government and the plane maker are cooperating, there are few precedents for the situation.

“Everyone wants the airplane back in the air quickly and safely,” said Mark V. Rosenker, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. “But I don’t believe there will be a corner cut to accomplish that. It will happen when all are confident they have a good solution that will contain a fire or a leak.”

Boeing engineers, Mr. Rosenker said, are working around the clock. “I bet they have cots and food for the engineers who are working on this,” he said. “They have produced a reliable and safe aircraft and as advanced as it is, they don’t want to put airplanes in the air with the problems we have seen.”

The government approved Boeing’s use of lithium-ion batteries to power some of the plane’s systems in 2007, but special conditions were imposed on the plane maker to ensure the batteries would not overheat or ignite. Government inspectors also approved Boeing’s testing plans for the batteries and were present when they were performed.

Even so, after the episode in Boston, the federal agency said it would review the 787’s design and manufacturing with a focus on the electrical systems and batteries. The agency also said it would review the certification process.

The 787 has more electrical systems than previous generations of airplanes. These systems operate hydraulic pumps, de-ice the wings, pressurize the cabin and handle other tasks. The plane also has electric brakes instead of hydraulic ones. To run these systems, the 787 has six generators with a capacity equivalent to the power needed by 400 homes.

The 787’s two main batteries, each about twice the size of a car battery, serve several functions. One, in the front of the plane, provides power for the plane’s start-up and ground operations like refueling, and is a backup power for the electrical brakes. The second battery, in the back of the plane, is used to start the auxiliary power unit — a small engine that is used on the ground — and serves as a backup power source. Both batteries have had malfunctions.

It is not uncommon, of course, for new aircraft types to encounter problems. Last year, small cracks were found in the wings of the double-decker Airbus A380, which entered service in 2007. Regulators required inspections and, later, fixes that Airbus ultimately devised.

Airbus executives have expressed sympathy for their rival’s current woes and said they were confident Boeing would get to the bottom of the problem. But some acknowledged that an extensive review of the battery technology could set off costly delays in Airbus’s rival program, the A350-XWB, which uses the same type of batteries and is scheduled to enter service in late 2014.

Problems with lithium-ion batteries in the aviation world are not new and have contributed to dozens of fires aboard airplanes in recent years. Cessna was forced to replace lithium-ion batteries on its CJ4 business jet with nickel-cadmium after a battery fire on the plane in 2011. The CJ4 was certified under special conditions similar to the 787’s.

It is possible that regulators will allow flights to resume before the safety board completes its investigation, which could take months, experts said.

“It’s a real conundrum,” said Kevin Hiatt, president and chief executive of the Flight Safety Foundation, an aviation research firm. “The question is how amenable is the F.A.A. right now before we know all the details of what’s gone bad.”

Experts said that regulators are ready to act more quickly, and that this has helped the industry’s safety record.

“It took five major accidents before we grounded the de Havilland Comet,” said John Cox, a longtime safety expert. “It took four before they grounded the DC-10, and with the Concorde, one before they grounded the airplane,” he said. “With the 787, even without a major accident, there was enough concern that they grounded the airplane.”

Mr. Rosenker, the former safety board chairman, agreed that regulators had reacted more swiftly than they once might have.

“Bad things can happen if you don’t operate out of an abundance of caution,” he said. “We’ve learned this over the years.”
404 2013-01-19 A federal appeals court on Friday upheld Gov. Scott Walker’s law stripping most public workers of most of their collective bargaining rights. The decision does not undo a September ruling by a state circuit judge saying the law was unconstitutional as applied to school and local government workers and preventing much of it from being in effect. That ruling is under appeal. Friday’s 2-to-1 ruling by a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit also does not resolve other lawsuits over the law.
405 2013-01-19 The Olympic champion Evan Lysacek, 27, withdrew from the U.S. Figure Skating Championships because of a slow recovery from November surgery on a sports hernia. He has not competed since the 2010 Vancouver Games.

¶ Alexis Pinturault of France used his superior slalom skills to win a World Cup super-combined in Wengen, Switzerland. The American Ted Ligety seemed set for a podium finish until his right ski slipped free making a turn.
406 2013-01-19 The United Nations commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, expressed dismay on Friday over the lack of Security Council action on the killings and human rights abuses in Syria, where the death toll has surpassed 60,000. The figures “speak for themselves — 60,000 deaths is not a matter that should be treated lightly,” Ms. Pillay told reporters after she briefed the Security Council. She urged the Council to refer the issue of Syria to the International Criminal Court for investigation. “I firmly believe that war crimes and crimes against humanity are being committed, have been committed and should be investigated,” she said. Nearly 60 countries sent the Security Council a letter this month urging that Syria be referred to the court for investigation. Russia has made it clear that it will veto any such action.
407 2013-01-19 I applaud Nicholas D. Kristof’s column highlighting the epidemic of sexual assault and violence against women all over the world, including in the United States (“Is Delhi So Different From Steubenville?,” Jan. 13).

While he notes the inexcusable inaction by Congress to extend the Violence Against Women Act or to pass the International Violence Against Women Act, he could have added that because of Senate inaction, the United States is one of only seven countries that have not yet ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.

This convention is the most comprehensive women’s human rights treaty and one of the most effective tools for persuading governments to address violence against women.

The United States’ failure to ratify the convention undermines our global leadership to eliminate violence against women.

The writer is director of the Human Rights Education Project, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights.
408 2013-01-19 A second Inaugural Address is a peculiar bit of oratory.

Vindicated by re-election, a president beginning a second term is also seasoned – for better or worse – by the experience of the office. Empowered, he is sometimes embittered as well. And if he speaks in a time of some crisis, it may be one that he fathered, not one that he was selected to confront.

Second Inaugural Addresses can be quirky.

George Washington delivered just four sentences before (not after) taking his oath. “When the occasion proper for it shall arrive, I shall endeavor to express the high sense I entertain of this distinguished honor,” he said. Ulysses S. Grant, another soldier-statesman, offered this utopian sentiment: “I believe that our Great Maker is preparing the world, in His own good time, to

become one nation, speaking one language, and when armies and navies will be no longer required.”

Usually the thoughts of re-elected presidents are more practical than that. Often, predictably, they talk about taxes.

Thomas Jefferson, now revered as the patron saint of a free press, used his moment to assail its excesses. “The artillery of the press has been leveled against us, charged with whatsoever its licentiousness could devise or dare,” he complained.

More commonly, though, presidents pray for the nation’s place in the favor of God and their own in the annals of history. A few, like Abraham Lincoln, soar.

Sixteen presidents have delivered such a speech before President Obama; below are excerpts of several, historically annotated.
409 2013-01-19 However, some of the cases have involved bribes, embezzlement and tax evasion unrelated to the construction frenzy. Instead, they have tainted the upper echelons of Spanish society as well as the country’s institutional fabric, from the monarchy to the Supreme Court.

Iñaki Urdangarin, the son-in-law of King Juan Carlos, became the first member of the royal family to appear in court last year, as part of an ongoing investigation into whether he and some business associates siphoned off millions of euros from tourism and sports events. Meanwhile, Chief Justice Carlos Dívar resigned last June after being accused by a fellow judge of claiming several vacations as business expenses.

“I believe that the level of corruption that we’re now uncovering is well beyond anything that we had, at least in living memory,” said Alfonso Osorio, the president of BDO Spain, an auditing firm. “This corruption is sending the message that anything goes in the country, which could also really hurt Spain’s image around the world.”

The Swiss money held by Mr. Bárcenas gave fresh ammunition to the main opposition Socialist Party, whose leader, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, called on Mr. Rajoy “to come out and give a public explanation” in response to the “huge social alarm” that news of the secret Swiss funds had sparked.

Mr. Rajoy has not responded so far. He has also steered clear of commenting on fraud charges against other politicians in his native region of Galicia. Ángel Currás, the conservative mayor of Galicia’s capital city, Santiago de Compostela, was charged this month as part of a widening investigation into illegal public works contracts awarded across the region. Mr. Currás denies wrongdoing and has refused to step down.

The Socialists, however, have also been embroiled in several scandals, particularly in their stronghold of Andalusia, Spain’s largest region, where prosecutors have accused some local officials of paying fictitious early retirement benefits to relatives and friends.

Meanwhile, in the independent-minded Catalonia, corruption and money-laundering investigations have also recently put the spotlight on some prominent politicians from the region’s governing Convergència i Unió party.

The pile of fraud-related cases has added strains on a Spanish judiciary long criticized for its inefficiency. Even so, prosecuting judges have recently extended their investigations into how politicians and others built up their wealth during the boom years while earning relatively modest salaries.

On Wednesday, amid another property investigation, the president of Madrid’s regional government, Ignacio González, revealed that he and his wife purchased a penthouse last month in the holiday resort of Marbella for 770,000 euros, or more than $1 million. Mr. González, who earns 4,800 euros  a month, about $6,380, is denying any wrongdoing, as well as any link between his acquisition and the property investigation undertaken by a local judge.

At a time when recession-hit Spaniards have been forced to tighten their belts, corruption has shot up their list of concerns, according to the latest surveys from Spain’s Center for Sociological Investigations. Joblessness remains the main preoccupation.

Rising corruption was one of the concerns that ignited a youth-led protest movement in May 2011 that took over Puerta del Sol, in central Madrid, as well as squares in other Spanish cities.

One of the demands of the protesters, who called themselves “the indignants,” was that politicians entangled in a fraud case step down or be barred from running for office. Instead, established parties included more than 100 politicians under judicial investigation for fraud and other offenses as candidates for regional elections in 2011.

Last March, four months after taking office, Mr. Rajoy introduced a government transparency law designed to put bureaucrats and politicians under more scrutiny, notably by giving citizens greater access to official documents and records. The proposal has since been bogged down in Parliament.

One of the pending changes on Mr. Rajoy’s agenda has been an overhaul of public administration. However, “no government has so far managed to reform the public administration, in large part because almost all our politicians come from within the public administration,” said Juan Luis Cebrián, chief executive of Prisa, the media group whose assets include El País newspaper.

As for Spain’s judiciary, Mr. Cebrián said, “It is probably the only part of our system that hasn’t yet gone through the democratization process.”
410 2013-01-20 Returning servicewomen are the fastest growing segment of the homeless population, an often-invisible group bouncing  between friends’ sofas and shelters....
411 2013-01-20 The inaugural celebration Monday begins at 11:30 a.m. with the swearing-in ceremony at the Capitol....
412 2013-01-20 Commentary and live analysis from Sunday's A.F.C. championship game between the Baltimore Ravens and the New England Patriots....
413 2013-01-20 Notes on the numbers....
414 2013-01-20 China's first figures of income inequality, the Gini coefficient, in over a decade, have been greeted with skepticism as they show the rich-poor gap shrinking, not growing, as many believe....
415 2013-01-20 Jessica Robyn Levin and Jason Michael Colombo are to be married Sunday evening at the Ritz-Carlton in San Juan, P.R. Cory Casterton, a minister ordained by the Elim Fellowship, is to officiate. Afterward, Brian Morrison, a friend of the couple, is to lead a ceremony that includes Jewish and Christian traditions.

The bride, 30, is an associate at Morrison Cohen, a Manhattan law firm. She graduated from George Washington University and received a law degree from Emory.

She is the daughter of Fran A. Levin and Harry J. Levin of Toms River, N.J.

The groom, 31, works in Manhattan as a vice president for asset management at Goldman Sachs. He graduated from Columbia and received a law degree from Boston University.

He is a son of Janet Colombo and Michael J. Colombo of Rossville, Staten Island.
416 2013-01-20 GENEVA (AP) — More than 140 nations adopted the first legally binding international treaty on Saturday aimed at reducing mercury emissions, after four years of negotiations on ways to set limits on the use of a highly toxic metal.

The treaty was adopted after all-night negotiations that followed a week of talks in Geneva, United Nations environmental officials and diplomats said. A signing ceremony will be held later this year in Japan, and then 50 nations must ratify the agreement before it comes into force, which officials said they expected to happen within three or four years.

“To agree on global targets is not easy to do,” Achim Steiner, the executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, said at a news conference. “There was no delegation here that wished to leave Geneva without drafting a treaty.”

The treaty will for the first time set enforceable limits on emissions of mercury, which is widely used in chemical production and small-scale mining, and exclude, phase out or restrict some products that contain mercury.

“We have closed a chapter on a journey that has taken four years of often intense but ultimately successful negotiations and opened a new chapter towards a sustainable future,” said Fernando Lugris, the Uruguayan diplomat who led the negotiations.
417 2013-01-20 Boards of public corporations are supposed to protect the interests of shareholders, partly by monitoring the behavior of top executives, who are employees, not emperors. In the years before the crisis, too many directors forgot those responsibilities, and both their companies and the broader public suffered from the malign neglect. Will they now remember? Some will — for a while. But sanctions on directors for poor performance are minimal.

One bitter lesson of the crisis is that, when it comes to risk taking, what you don’t know can hurt you. Too many C.E.O.’s let their subordinates ride roughshod over risk managers, tipping the balance toward greed and away from fear. The primary responsibility for keeping risk-management systems up to snuff rests with top executives and boards of directors. But the Federal Reserve and other regulators are now watching and mustn’t let up.

Excessive leverage — otherwise known as over-borrowing — was one of the chief foundations of the house of cards that collapsed so violently in 2008. Overpaid investment “geniuses” used leverage to manufacture extraordinary returns out of ordinary investments. Bankers and investors (not to mention home buyers) deluded themselves into thinking they could earn high returns without assuming big risks. But leverage is like alcohol: a little bit has health benefits, but too much can kill you. The banks’ near-death experiences, plus preparation for higher capital requirements to come, are temporarily keeping them sober. But watch for the binge drinking to return.

Modern finance profits from complexity, because befuddled customers are more profitable ones. But do all those fancy financial instruments actually do the economy any good? Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, once said the A.T.M. was the only beneficial financial innovation in the recent past. He may have exaggerated, but he had a point. Who needs credit default swaps on collateralized debt obligations, and other such concoctions?

7. Standardize Derivatives and Trade Them on Exchanges

Derivatives acquired a bad name in the crisis. But if they are straightforward, transparent, well collateralized, traded in liquid markets by well-capitalized counterparties and sensibly regulated, derivatives can help investors hedge risks. It is the customized, opaque, “over the counter” derivatives that are the most dangerous — and the ones more likely to serve the interests of the dealers than their customers. Dodd-Frank pushed some derivatives toward greater standardization and transparent trading on exchanges, but not enough. The industry is pushing to keep more derivatives trading out of the sunshine.

8. Keep Things on the Balance Sheet

Before the crisis, some banks took important financial activities off their balance sheets to hide how much leverage they had. But the joke was on them. The crisis revealed that some chief executives were only dimly aware of the off-balance-sheet entities their banks held. These “masters of the universe” hadn’t mastered their own books. Dodd-Frank specifies that “capital requirements shall take into account any off-balance-sheet activities of the company.” That’s a welcome step toward making off-balance-sheet entities safe and rare. Now regulators must make the rule work.

Offering traders monumental rewards for success, but a mere slap on the wrist for failure, encourages them to take excessive risks. Chief executives and corporate directors should “claw back” pay when putative gains turn into losses. If they don’t, we may need the heavy hand of government to do it.

The meek won’t inherit their fair share of the earth if they are constantly being fleeced. What we learned in the crisis is that failure to protect unsophisticated consumers from financial predators can undermine the whole economy. That surprising lesson mustn’t be forgotten. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau should institutionalize it.

Mark Twain is said to have quipped that while history doesn’t repeat itself, it does rhyme. There will be financial crises in the future, and the next one won’t be a carbon copy of the last. Neither, however, will it be so different that these commandments won’t apply. Financial history does rhyme, but we’re already forgetting the meter.
418 2013-01-20 But what if the January Effect has a more fundamental cause — one that ties directly to human nature?

In a paper published in The Journal of Behavioral Finance in 2011, I proposed that this most famous of regular irregularities in the stock market was attributable to our strong inclination to be optimistic at the turn of the year. Investors, exhibiting the same flash of wishful thinking exuded by any New Year’s resolution maker, take a flier on those little stocks that “have great potential.” Then, as the hopefulness fades over the year, the January could-bes fall back into might-have-beens, typically doing a little worse than the market as a whole.

For an experiment that might test this hypothesis, I gathered a portfolio of stocks particularly susceptible to optimism — those for which Wall Street analysts had sharply varying opinions regarding their prospects, with some analysts wildly upbeat in their assessments and others quite pessimistic. I argued that in January, share prices would reflect the optimistic view rather than the gloomy one and that in the rest of the year the opposite would occur — a pattern that monthly stock returns later bore out.

What’s more, recent research on the brain suggests that some human beings are hard-wired for such optimism. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, the neuroscientist Tali Sharot, at University College London, and her team have been studying communication between the brain’s frontal cortex and subcortical regions deep in the brain; inveterate optimists, it seems, tend to have stronger communication links between these areas.

Whether or not this brain cross-talk spikes in January is an open question — as is another major piece of the puzzle: Why doesn’t the January Effect disappear in anticipation of the January Effect, as investors try to take advantage of what’s coming? I believe that the “false hope syndrome,” a notion that has been explored by the psychologists Janet Polivy and C. Peter Herman, may account for some of the reason.

The theory is that people are optimistic at the turn of the year and often make idealistic resolutions: lose 50 pounds, write that novel, cut down the binge spending or make a windfall in the stock market. As the year progresses, they fall short of their goals and eventually forget or give up. But come next January, the goals are back, starting the cycle of failure and renewed effort all over again.

Looking further into brain activity, Dr. Sharot and her team may have found why false hopes exist neurologically. They contend that unrealistic optimism is a pervasive human trait. Evaluating how this optimism is maintained in the face of information that challenges it, they found that desirable information was encoded in a different part of the brain than undesirable information.

Optimists and pessimists both process desirable information effectively, but the brain neurons of extreme optimists do not effectively encode undesirable information. This reduced ability to remember disappointments is probably an advantage for many people — like professional athletes, who need confidence after tough losses. But for investors looking for long-term winners at the start of the year, it’s best to give yourself a gut check before you buy.
419 2013-01-20 SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — Judging by the number of consignments and the turnout of buyers, the annual winter classic car auctions that began here on Tuesday with Barrett-Jackson’s sale seem to have been immunized against every strain of economic flu. It’s almost as though the lean recession years of 2009-10 never happened.

Here are some of the particularly interesting high-end collectibles available this weekend:

• 1971 Plymouth Hemi ’Cuda (Barrett-Jackson) One of 11 426-powered ’Cuda convertibles built that year, it was a tremendously expensive engine option for the day — nearly $1,300 — which explains its scarcity. Were this car to break $2 million here, it would be a sign that the market is close to being back to its peak of 2007.

• 1934 Cadillac V-16 Convertible Sedan (RM Auctions). In the 1930s, there was a race for engine size and number of cylinders. Only Marmon matched Cadillac in introducing an expensive V-16 in the depths of the Depression. This car is expected to bring up to $750,000.

• 1958 Ferrari 250 GT LWB California Spider (Gooding & Company) The California Spider is the market leader of collectible road Ferraris. There’s a definite pecking order, with the short-wheelbase, enclosed-headlight models capable of bringing $10 million or more. This is the slightly less desirable long-wheelbase model, but it may possibly be the weekend’s high sale with an estimate of $5.5 million to $7 million.

• 1960 Ferrari 250 GT SWB Berlinetta (RM Auctions) This car is likely to go wheel-to-wheel with the California Spider at Gooding for the weekend’s top sale. RM declined to publish a presale estimate.

• 1957 Maserati 150 GT Spider (Gooding & Company) Maserati was once a credible rival to Ferrari on the road and the racetrack. In terms of collectibility, the same cannot be said; this car illustrates that point. A factory prototype for a 4-cylinder sports car, the 150 GT was based on the chassis of a retired competition car. It has a $3 million to $4 million presale estimate.
420 2013-01-20 He and the other producers won’t reveal exactly where their modern-day “Macbeth” ends up, though a shot at the presidency isn’t a bad guess. The characters introduced in the first two episodes include Representative Peter Russo, a pawn for Underwood, played by Corey Stoll (Hemingway in “Midnight in Paris”); Linda Vasquez, the president’s chief of staff, played by Sakina Jaffrey; and Underwood’s conniving wife, Claire, played by Robin Wright. “In politics there’s ambition, desire, lust, betrayal — all the same kinds of things we exhibit and experience in our own everyday lives,” said Beau Willimon, the show runner. Mr. Fincher, Mr. Willimon and many of the other players — all basically television novices — were brought together by Media Rights Capital, an independent studio that had optioned the rights to “House of Cards” thanks to an intern who recommended it to Mordecai Wiczyk, the studio’s co-founder.

Mr. Fincher was finishing “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” when he was introduced to the BBC mini-series by an agent. “David said, ‘I’d love to executive-produce this, and I’d like to bring Eric Roth with me,’ ” Mr. Wiczyk recalled. “Generally speaking, when you get that phone call, you just say yes. Which I did.”

Mr. Roth had written the screenplay for “Benjamin Button.” Next, Mr. Fincher said, they had to “find a writer who would do the due diligence to transplant parliamentary politics to Washington.” Enter Mr. Willimon, who had written the play “Farragut North” and turned it into the film “The Ides of March.” After watching the BBC mini-series, he said, “I saw tons of great opportunities to make it our own, to make it contemporary, to broaden its scope and deepen its story.” It’s a “reinvention,” he added, not a mere remake.

By the time Mr. Willimon completed the pilot in early 2011, Mr. Spacey’s agent had started asking about the project. (Artistic director of the Old Vic theater in London, “Kevin is an Anglophile,” Mr. Wiczyk said.) The actor was part of the package Media Rights Capital brought to HBO, Showtime, AMC and other possible television buyers.

But before the studio met with any of them it put out a feeler to Netflix, thinking that fast-growing service might bid for the rights to repeat the show after a television premiere. The Netflix chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, a fan of the original, did what Netflix executives tend to do: He looked at the data. He found that Mr. Spacey and Mr. Fincher’s films were pretty popular among subscribers to Netflix’s streaming service. So were the films and TV shows in the category Netflix called “political thrillers.” And if that wasn’t enough evidence that a “House of Cards” reboot would fare well, there was this: The DVDs of the original mini-series were popular among subscribers to the company’s DVD-by-mail service.

Mr. Sarandos also sized up the project qualitatively. “It looked incredibly promising,” he said, “kind of the perfect storm of material and talent.”

He wanted exclusive rights to the show — a jaw-dropper at the time, since Netflix wasn’t in the exclusives business yet. His $100 million commitment to license 26 episodes, two seasons, sight unseen clinched the deal.

Since the deal was struck in March 2011 Netflix has taken a couple of tentative steps into original programming, picking up overseas shows that had never been seen in the United States before. But “House of Cards” is the first show that can be called made for Netflix. It’s also the first to be considered, by those that do such considering, as prestigious as the programs on HBO and other top-tier cable channels. Netflix plans to have premieres of several other original shows this year, including a new season of the canceled Fox comedy “Arrested Development”; “Hemlock Grove,” a horror series produced by Eli Roth; a comedy, “Orange Is the New Black,” from the “Weeds” creator Jenji Kohan; and another called “Derek” from Ricky Gervais.

For “House of Cards” what was almost as important as the two-season commitment was Netflix’s promise of zero interference. “We’re placing our faith in you,” Mr. Sarandos told Mr. Fincher and the other producers.

Mr. Willimon said that he and his writing staff wrote drafts of all 13 episodes of the first season before filming commenced on a soundstage outside Baltimore last April — in contrast to most television shows that have a much more compressed timetable. What is compressed, in this case, is the release of the first season.

“We approached this creatively as a 13-hour movie,” said Mr. Willimon, who eschewed cliffhangers at the ends of some episodes because, well, he could. “Knowing we had two full seasons in advance, I didn’t feel the pressure to sell the end of each episode with superficial cliffhangers or shock tactics in order to keep coming back, in order to jack up the ratings week to week,” he said. “I hope our version of a cliffhanger is compelling, sophisticated characters and complex storytelling.”

Since the series is set in Washington, some viewers will surely wonder if the characters are stand-ins for a real political animals. “Yeah, people will be tempted to think that it’s a real-life portrayal of life in D.C.,” Mr. Sarandos said. “It’s not at all. It’s a piece of fiction that is incredible. It’s not an attempt to portray the nastiness of Washington. It’s an attempt to portray the nastiness of mankind.”
421 2013-01-20 This line from George Saunders resonated with me most: “What a powerful thing to know: that one’s own desires are mappable onto strangers.” If we could really live that insight, the world would be better — to see the great, often unbridgeable distance between yourself and “the other” turn into a roadway paved with understanding. To recognize, despite the difference, or maybe because of it, some common humanity between us. What a marvelous profile. Made me take “Pastoralia” off my bookshelf and start reading again. KATHLEEN B. JONES, PH.D., Bristol, England, posted on nytimes.com

The literary history of Syracuse, N.Y., is more important than most readers realize. Joel Lovell beautifully portrays one of Syracuse’s most original fiction writers. Illuminating is Lovell’s exploration of Saunders’s ties to David Foster Wallace. Pointing to a basement apartment, Saunders is quoted as saying: “That’s where Dave wrote ‘Infinite Jest.’ There should be a plaque there.” But while Wallace wrote with exceptional lucidity in Syracuse, according to D. T. Max’s recent biography, most of the novel was drafted in Boston. Would Wallace have agreed to any markings of his time in a place he called “Drearacuse,” the gray-lit center of heartbreak for him, a place from which he so often sought escape? MICHAEL PAUL THOMAS, Asst. Dean, Wayne D. McMurray School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Monmouth University, West Long Branch, N.J.

This is a tragic story of two young lives — one shot to death, the other sentenced to a long prison term. What makes it even more tragic is that it never needed to happen. Had Conor McBride not had easy access to a gun in his parents’ home, he would not be in prison, and Ann Grosmaire would be alive and able to look forward to a career and a family. What better example is there for stricter gun laws? ANNE E. CITRON, Beverly Hills, Calif.

By his own admission, McBride hit Grosmaire several times during their relationship; each time, Grosmaire clearly “forgave” him enough to stay. Restorative justice potentially allows the cycle of abuse and forgiveness that fuels domestic violence to enter the courtroom. While I do not doubt the sincerity of the Grosmaires’ forgiveness of McBride, nor begrudge them the peace they have found, I cannot agree that their feelings have a place in the justice system. ELSPETH GREEN, Princeton, N.J

‘BE WRONG AS FAST AS YOU CAN’

I’m a metal artist with great ideas, but I’m trapped by easy success at making silver jewelry. My days start with fabulous concepts swirling in my head but are spent making fattening breakfasts, carrying in firewood and taking afternoon naps. Yesterday at the Met, I saw photos of Matisse’s paintings as they “evolved.” He would continually paint over his female figures — one day slumped, the next erect; the face articulated, then later a squiggle as if by a second-grader. They were “mistakes” leading to what I thought were simple sketches but now see as refinements. He was being wrong as fast as he could. Now I sit, having read Hugo Lindgren’s essay (it was easier than making a fattening breakfast). A personal sea change has occurred. I wish I could convey my thanks, but the only way to do that is with my paintbrushes or carving chisels or torches. Just as soon as I get this smoky bacon into that iron skillet. TOM BURNS, Westminster, Vt.

THERE’S MORE THAN ONE WAY TO SKIN A POTATO

There’s no knish in this list. I call shenanigans. @srubenfeld, via Twitter
422 2013-01-21 Thousands attended the inaugural balls to celebrate the start of President Obama’s second term....
423 2013-01-21 As expected, style at the inaugural ceremonies did not disappoint....
424 2013-01-21 From fleece and fur worn to the National Mall to Jason Wu’s encore appearance at the inaugural ball, there was a lot to be seen at the Monday’s ceremonies....
425 2013-01-21 The company's United States subsidiary, Atari Interactive, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Monday as part of an effort to cleave itself from its French parent, Atari S.A....
426 2013-01-21 A time-lapse video of the construction of 3-D mathematical art made from tens of thousands of business cards.
427 2013-01-21 Blueberries and strawberries have large concentrations of the flavonoid anthocyanin, which may help lower blood pressure and improve blood vessel function....
428 2013-01-21 For the more than 2,500 people making the pilgrimage this year, some personalities will command more attention than others....
429 2013-01-21 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
430 2013-01-21 The jumbotrons and audio outside of the inaugural ceremony malfunctioned during President Obama's speech.
431 2013-01-21 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
432 2013-01-21 Repeating the phrase "we the people," the president tried to appeal to Americans' better natures....
433 2013-01-21 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
434 2013-01-21 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
435 2013-01-21 Butler used a little bit of magic, and players filling in for injured leading scorer Rotnei Clarke, to beat Gonzaga on Saturday....
436 2013-01-21 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
437 2013-01-21 Thom Browne landed a spot in fashion history this morning as the designer of Michelle Obama's inaugural morning outfit....
438 2013-01-21 Together, we discovered that a free market only thrives when there are rules to ensure competition and fair play.

Together, we resolved that a great nation must care for the vulnerable, and protect its people from life’s worst hazards and misfortune.

Through it all, we have never relinquished our skepticism of central authority, nor have we succumbed to the fiction that all society’s ills can be cured through government alone. Our celebration of initiative and enterprise; our insistence on hard work and personal responsibility, these are constants in our character.

But we have always understood that when times change, so must we; that fidelity to our founding principles requires new responses to new challenges; that preserving our individual freedoms ultimately requires collective action. For the American people can no more meet the demands of today’s world by acting alone than American soldiers could have met the forces of fascism or communism with muskets and militias. No single person can train all the math and science teachers we’ll need to equip our children for the future, or build the roads and networks and research labs that will bring new jobs and businesses to our shores. Now, more than ever, we must do these things together, as one nation, and one people.

This generation of Americans has been tested by crises that steeled our resolve and proved our resilience. A decade of war is now ending. An economic recovery has begun. America’s possibilities are limitless, for we possess all the qualities that this world without boundaries demands: youth and drive; diversity and openness; an endless capacity for risk and a gift for reinvention. My fellow Americans, we are made for this moment, and we will seize it – so long as we seize it together.

For we, the people, understand that our country cannot succeed when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make it. We believe that America’s prosperity must rest upon the broad shoulders of a rising middle class. We know that America thrives when every person can find independence and pride in their work; when the wages of honest labor liberate families from the brink of hardship. We are true to our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows that she has the same chance to succeed as anybody else, because she is an American, she is free, and she is equal, not just in the eyes of God but also in our own.

We understand that outworn programs are inadequate to the needs of our time. We must harness new ideas and technology to remake our government, revamp our tax code, reform our schools, and empower our citizens with the skills they need to work harder, learn more, reach higher. But while the means will change, our purpose endures: a nation that rewards the effort and determination of every single American. That is what this moment requires. That is what will give real meaning to our creed.

We, the people, still believe that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security and dignity. We must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of our deficit. But we reject the belief that America must choose between caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the generation that will build its future. For we remember the lessons of our past, when twilight years were spent in poverty, and parents of a child with a disability had nowhere to turn. We do not believe that in this country, freedom is reserved for the lucky, or happiness for the few. We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, any one of us, at any time, may face a job loss, or a sudden illness, or a home swept away in a terrible storm. The commitments we make to each other – through Medicare, and Medicaid, and Social Security – these things do not sap our initiative; they strengthen us. They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make this country great.

We, the people, still believe that our obligations as Americans are not just to ourselves, but to all posterity. We will respond to the threat of climate change, knowing that the failure to do so would betray our children and future generations. Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires, and crippling drought, and more powerful storms. The path towards sustainable energy sources will be long and sometimes difficult. But America cannot resist this transition; we must lead it. We cannot cede to other nations the technology that will power new jobs and new industries – we must claim its promise. That’s how we will maintain our economic vitality and our national treasure – our forests and waterways; our croplands and snowcapped peaks. That is how we will preserve our planet, commanded to our care by God. That’s what will lend meaning to the creed our fathers once declared.

We, the people, still believe that enduring security and lasting peace do not require perpetual war. Our brave men and women in uniform, tempered by the flames of battle, are unmatched in skill and courage. Our citizens, seared by the memory of those we have lost, know too well the price that is paid for liberty. The knowledge of their sacrifice will keep us forever vigilant against those who would do us harm. But we are also heirs to those who won the peace and not just the war, who turned sworn enemies into the surest of friends, and we must carry those lessons into this time as well.

We will defend our people and uphold our values through strength of arms and rule of law. We will show the courage to try and resolve our differences with other nations peacefully – not because we are naïve about the dangers we face, but because engagement can more durably lift suspicion and fear. America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in every corner of the globe; and we will renew those institutions that extend our capacity to manage crisis abroad, for no one has a greater stake in a peaceful world than its most powerful nation. We will support democracy from Asia to Africa; from the Americas to the Middle East, because our interests and our conscience compel us to act on behalf of those who long for freedom. And we must be a source of hope to the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice – not out of mere charity, but because peace in our time requires the constant advance of those principles that our common creed describes: tolerance and opportunity; human dignity and justice.

We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths – that all of us are created equal – is the star that guides us still; just as it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls, and Selma, and Stonewall; just as it guided all those men and women, sung and unsung, who left footprints along this great Mall, to hear a preacher say that we cannot walk alone; to hear a King proclaim that our individual freedom is inextricably bound to the freedom of every soul on Earth.

It is now our generation’s task to carry on what those pioneers began. For our journey is not complete until our wives, our mothers, and daughters can earn a living equal to their efforts. Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law – for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well. Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait for hours to exercise the right to vote. Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity; until bright young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled from our country. Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the streets of Detroit to the hills of Appalachia to the quiet lanes of Newtown, know that they are cared for, and cherished, and always safe from harm.

That is our generation’s task – to make these words, these rights, these values – of Life, and Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness – real for every American. Being true to our founding documents does not require us to agree on every contour of life; it does not mean we all define liberty in exactly the same way, or follow the same precise path to happiness. Progress does not compel us to settle centuries-long debates about the role of government for all time – but it does require us to act in our time.

For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay. We cannot mistake absolutism for principle, or substitute spectacle for politics, or treat name-calling as reasoned debate. We must act, we must act knowing that our work will be imperfect. We must act, knowing that today’s victories will be only partial, and that it will be up to those who stand here in four years, and forty years, and four hundred years hence to advance the timeless spirit once conferred to us in a spare Philadelphia hall.

My fellow Americans, the oath I have sworn before you today, like the one recited by others who serve in this Capitol, was an oath to God and country, not party or faction – and we must faithfully execute that pledge during the duration of our service. But the words I spoke today are not so different from the oath that is taken each time a soldier signs up for duty, or an immigrant realizes her dream. My oath is not so different from the pledge we all make to the flag that waves above and that fills our hearts with pride.

They are the words of citizens, and they represent our greatest hope.

You and I, as citizens, have the power to set this country’s course.

You and I, as citizens, have the obligation to shape the debates of our time – not only with the votes we cast, but with the voices we lift in defense of our most ancient values and enduring ideals.

Let each of us now embrace, with solemn duty and awesome joy, what is our lasting birthright. With common effort and common purpose, with passion and dedication, let us answer the call of history, and carry into an uncertain future that precious light of freedom.

Thank you, God Bless you, and may He forever bless these United States of America.
439 2013-01-21 An “Ozzie-and-Harriet-type house” that belonged to Jules and Jeanne Manford provided a refuge for people whose parents had rejected them for their sexuality....
440 2013-01-21 Crowds gathered along the National Mall in Washington before ceremonies at the start of President Obama’s second term....
441 2013-01-21 The second inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president of the United States and Joseph R. Biden Jr. as vice president....
442 2013-01-21 Poland is pushing for stable, prosperous and democratic states in its own neighborhood and beyond....
443 2013-01-21 A sampling of fascinating facts about Monday's inaugural and the 56 that preceded it....
444 2013-01-21 What graph search means for small businesses, charging liberals more for smoothies, managing sales executives and does everyone really need a social media strategy?...
445 2013-01-21 The retailing giant Walmart has made a generous commitment to hire recent veterans, but its wages, treatment of workers and opportunities for advancement remain limited....
446 2013-01-21 In honor of both occasions, some resources for teaching and learning....
447 2013-01-21 Mr. Dogancay produced some 4,000 paintings, many of them abstract collages in three dimensions like “Ribbon Mania,” a 1982 piece acquired by the Met in 2011.

His work has been exhibited in more than 70 museums, including the British Museum, the Guggenheim Museum and the Whitney Museum of American Art. Levent Calikoglu, the chief curator of the Istanbul Museum of Modern Art, said in an e-mail on Thursday that Mr. Dogancay’s art drew from the many cultural traditions — European, Middle Eastern, American, ancient and modern — that intersect in contemporary Turkey. In Mr. Dogancay’s work, he said, New York subway walls and the walls of the most remote Turkish village speak to a common humanity.

Born on Sept. 11, 1929, in Istanbul, Burhan Cahit Dogancay was the first of three children of Adil and Hediye Dogancay, both members of Western-educated middle-class families. His father, an army officer and noted watercolorist, was his first art instructor.

Despite Westernizing influences in Turkey and the establishment of a democratic, secular government in 1923 after centuries of Ottoman rule, the country’s art remained fairly untouched by modernism during Mr. Dogancay’s childhood. Museums, which were state run, displayed mainly traditional or representational art. Mr. Dogancay told interviewers that he did not see his first Impressionist or Expressionist painting, or a Picasso, until 1950, when he graduated from the University of Ankara and left for Paris.

He went there to study economics at the University of Paris; but from 1950 to 1955, when he received his doctorate, he took art courses and began painting in his spare time. He was director of the Turkish republic’s tourism office in New York in 1962 when he decided to become an artist full time. Within two years he had his first show in Manhattan.

His wall motif was inspired by the streets of New York, he said. “At first I was primarily interested in the decayed, deteriorated surface of walls,” he wrote in a 2009 book of his work. But in the kaleidoscope of posters and graffiti competing to be seen on the walls of the city, above and below ground, he began to recognize a kind of archaeological depth, he said. It revealed “the testimonials of human beings expressing and communicating” their history.

In the 1980s, his interest in walls led Mr. Dogancay to photograph skyscrapers under construction in Midtown Manhattan. Friendships he developed with ironworkers made it possible for him to photograph their restoration work on the Brooklyn Bridge. His pictures, many of which required climbing the bridge’s cables to dizzying heights, were published in his 1999 book, “Bridge of Dreams: The Rebirth of the Brooklyn Bridge.”

In addition to his wife, Mr. Dogancay is survived by two sisters, Ayten and Tulin.

In an interview last year with the online journal Artlifemagazine, Mr. Dogancay was asked how urban walls had changed since the 1960s and ’70s, when many of the posters and leaflets festooning them carried messages of political protest. “Walls are clean now, because there is social media and computers,” he said, adding, “The youth are not as angry as they were.”
448 2013-01-21 Gail Collins (“The Woes of Roe,” column, Jan. 10) suggests tongue-in-cheek that young people would not object to rebranding the pro-choice movement the Movement for Leaving Women Alone.

But the younger generation of activists who support the right to a full range of reproductive health services, including abortion, already has a name for its movement: reproductive justice, which recognizes that a woman’s economic standing, as well as her race, immigration status and a number of other factors can significantly affect her access to reproductive health services.

Ensuring that women can make their own reproductive decisions certainly involves keeping politicians from interfering along the lines Ms. Collins mentions, but it also means providing resources to women, like insurance coverage for abortion even for women who are eligible for Medicaid and other government programs, so that no woman is forced to make such an important decision based on economic need.

The writer is director of the Women’s Health and Rights program at the Center for American Progress and the author of “More Than a Choice: A Progressive Vision for Reproductive Health and Rights.”
449 2013-01-21 Last week, Justin Timberlake’s new song, “Suit & Tie,” did double promotional duty. Not only was it a teaser for Mr. Timberlake’s latest album, but it also served as an introduction for a revamped version of Myspace, the once-mighty social network and music site.

Mr. Timberlake is a minority partner in the investor group that bought Myspace for $35 million in 2011, six years after News Corporation paid $580 million for it with hopes of dominating the social Web. Before long it was eclipsed by Facebook and fell into the dustbin of the Internet.

The new Myspace, which like the old MySpace lets people listen to huge numbers of songs free, has won early praise for its sleek design. But while it has said its intention is to help artists, it may already have a problem with some of the independent record labels that supply much of its content.

Although Myspace boasts the biggest library in digital music — more than 50 million songs, it says — a group representing thousands of small labels says the service is using its members’ music without permission.

The group, Merlin, negotiates digital deals on behalf of labels around the world. Charles Caldas, chief executive of Merlin, said in an interview on Friday that its deal with Myspace expired over a year ago, yet songs from more than 100 of its labels are still available on Myspace, including Beggars Group, Domino and Merge, three of the biggest independents.

“While it’s nice that Mr. Timberlake is launching his service on this platform, and acting as an advocate for the platform,” Mr. Caldas said, “on the other hand his peers as artists are being exploited without permission and not getting remuneration for it.”
450 2013-01-21 The Los Angeles Times has also sought out more glamorous options. Over the last several years its has rented its offices for use in the films “Argo,” “Moneyball,” “Frost/Nixon,” “Dreamgirls” and “The Soloist.” Hillary Manning, a spokeswoman for the newspaper, said it was part of a strategy “to maximize the value of our real estate assets and diversify our revenue streams to best support The Times’s core journalistic mission.”

At The Globe, Mr. Mayer has followed The Los Angeles Times’s example and rented some space to a production crew filming a television pilot.

Other industries also have sought ways to use empty space, especially since the recession began. Airports are trying to turn abandoned terminals into office space. The Chicago Merchandise Mart, once occupied mostly by the furniture and fabric industries, is now trying to attract more technology companies. Even churches have advertised their extra space, offering local groups a meeting place.

The Globe moved in its digital team to the unused space about 18 months ago, then invited technology companies to occupy the empty desks. On a recent morning, flocks of scruffily dressed young entrepreneurs crouched before computer screens. Above them hung outdated LED screens that used to tell workers in the classified department how many calls waited to be answered.

Jeff Moriarty, The Globe’s vice president for digital products, strolled through the space and rattled off the names of the dozen start-ups that have passed through, like Supermechanical, a start-up that makes wireless sensors that connect to the Web. The Globe is also lending space to TapWalk, which builds apps for performance stages and large events like universities and music festivals.

The leasing agreements between these start-ups and The Globe are flexible; the paper generally does not charge rent but is looking for synergistic opportunities with some of the fledgling companies. “The only cost is we’re trying to find ways to work together,” Mr. Moriarty said.

These partnerships have formed quickly. Michael Morisy, co-founder of MuckRock, which tries to help make filing Freedom of Information Act requests easier, moved his start-up into The Globe’s temporary space in September 2011.

Mr. Morisy needed a mailroom to accept all of the correspondence his company was receiving. A year later, The Globe hired him to help track down public records for some of its reporting projects.

TapWalk is creating an app for The Globe’s travel show in February.

Mr. Moriarty said that most projects have been worked on “for mutual benefit with no money exchanged, other times we’ve paid for specific projects unique to us.”

In August, a noisier neighbor was thrown into the mix when The Globe started Radio BDC on the second floor and invited in bands to perform. Tech workers were encouraged to listen to the bands or to wear headphones during performances. Seventeen bands, including the Lumineers, California Wives and Minus the Bear, have performed there, attracting listeners from throughout the building.

On a recent morning, workers from the radio station were setting up a beer tasting in conjunction with the Publick House, a restaurant in Brookline, Mass., as employees of the tech start-ups typed feverishly a few feet away.

The space has become inviting enough that some reporters and editors have started to trickle in to sit on sofas and watch its huge television screen, reporting on events like the Golden Globes awards ceremony.

“It makes us look like a tech company,” said Shirley Leung, the business editor, who has held meetings there. “That space represents the modern Globe.”

Some people using The Globe’s incubator space expressed mixed feelings. John Kestner, who worked temporarily for Supermechanical, called the space “a bit musty and dark for our taste.” But he said it was preferable to working at home and gave him a chance to network and socialize.

Last fall, ABC Family shot a pilot called “Terminales” about a young reporter who writes for the fictitious Boston Post. Meredith Goldstein, an entertainment reporter for The Globe, covered the filming. As she showed off the prop elevator that the production company built in the newsroom, she said she could see the benefits of having a television crew fill out The Globe’s empty corners, creating a Hollywood version of what a newsroom should be.

“Everything got nicer,” she said.
451 2013-01-21 In what would seem to be the worst possible outcome right now, Boeing might also have to redesign its powerful new lithium-ion battery system, or even switch back to older, safer models. Aviation experts said such changes could cost hundreds of millions of dollars and shave off some of the 20 percent savings in fuel costs that the new jets have delivered.

Analysts say Boeing, which has about $80 billion a year in sales, has the financial muscle to weather the problems and make production of the next generation of airliners succeed in an industry familiar with outsize bets.

But the recent incidents were a reminder of the manufacturing and testing mishaps that had delayed the development of the planes. And any lengthy new delay could tax the patience of airlines and investors who thought the Chicago-based company had put the problems behind it.

Boeing’s stock has dropped only 3.4 percent, to $75.04 a share, in the two weeks since the battery fire on a 787 parked at Logan International Airport in Boston. The Federal Aviation Administration grounded the jets after another 787 made an emergency landing in Japan on Wednesday because of a smoke alarm in the cockpit. The F.A.A.’s order applied to six United jets; an additional 44 around the world have also been grounded.

David E. Strauss, an analyst at UBS, said big investors were “cautiously optimistic” that the batteries just came from a bad manufacturing batch or could be fixed with minor changes.

But, he said, “if the F.A.A. came out tomorrow and said to redesign the battery, and Boeing said it would take three months, the stock is going to go down on that.”

“Investors have been expecting that Boeing would finally start freeing itself of the cash drain from all the problems in developing the plane and that they would start to see more rewards now,” he added.

The National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday that it had ruled out excessive voltage as the cause of the battery fire on the 787 in Boston, adding to the mystery of the cause.

Besides the hazards to passengers if fire or smoke escaped from the battery containers, the problems are important because the 787 relies more on electrical systems than previous planes. Its use of electric rather than hydraulic systems is one of the innovations, along with more efficient engines and a lightweight carbon-composite structure, enabling the plane to save on fuel.

Boeing officials have said they had not previously had any problems with the batteries during 1.3 million hours of flights by their test pilots and eight airlines. Marc R. Birtel, a Boeing spokesman, said Saturday that one lithium-ion battery caught fire in 2006 during tests that Boeing held with the F.A.A. But he said the problems stemmed from the way the test was set up, and not from the battery design.

Depending on its agreements with each airline, Boeing was probably spending several hundred thousand dollars to $1.5 million a day to compensate carriers for lost passenger traffic or the need to lease other jets to maintain service, analysts said. Those penalties might be paid as a mix of cash and discounts on future plane purchases.

Boeing also plans to keep building 787s, at its current rate of five a month, to keep its supply chain intact. Mr. Strauss, the UBS analyst, estimated that the company spent $175 million to $225 million on each plane, so that would tie up more cash if it took time to fix the problems.

And the costs would mount even more rapidly if the planes remained grounded for several months or significant design changes were needed. That could slow Boeing’s plans to increase production to seven jets a month in mid-2013 and 10 a month by the end of the year.

Still, Boeing, which also has a giant military business, has about $11 billion in cash, and it cannot build some of its other planes, like the 737 and the 777, fast enough to keep up with the demand.

The 737 and 777 programs “are printing money,” said Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va.

“This is why small, niche companies don’t build large commercial jets,” he said. “You need multiple product lines to insulate yourself from problems.”

One risk for Boeing is that adjustments in the lithium-ion batteries could require changes in other electrical equipment. But the biggest risk is that the batteries could prove too volatile, and Boeing would have to redesign its systems to use heavier and less-efficient nickel-cadmium batteries.

Some technical experts doubted that such a drastic change would be needed. But smaller lithium-ion batteries have caused fires in cellphones and laptops in the past. Cessna was forced to replace lithium-ion batteries on its CJ4 business jet with nickel-cadmium after a battery fire on the plane in 2011.

Airbus is using lithium-ion batteries in its new A350 XWB jet, which is scheduled to enter service in 2014. But Airbus said the batteries in its plane, which will compete with the 787 for sales, were smaller than Boeing’s and carried lower voltages, making them less vulnerable to problems.

The F.A.A. set a series of conditions in 2007 to ensure that the 787’s batteries did not overheat or spew flammable materials. It was reviewing whether the company had properly taken those steps.

“Until they can replicate what happened, people won’t feel 100 percent confident,” said Howard A. Rubel, an analyst at Jefferies & Company. “You know they have to replicate it.”
452 2013-01-21 Mr. Dotcom, a German citizen and permanent resident of New Zealand who was born Kim Schmitz, was arrested on Jan. 20, 2012. During the raid on his home that day, the police seized vehicles worth about 6 million New Zealand dollars (about $5 million) and froze about 11 million dollars in bank accounts, according to a news release issued at the time.

Over the past year, Mr. Dotcom has become an ever-prominent figure in New Zealand as the legal and political saga surrounding his case has played out in the public sphere.

In June, a High Court judge ruled that the police had used the wrong type of search warrants to enter Mr. Dotcom’s property, meaning that the raid had been illegal. In September, Prime Minister John Key of New Zealand apologized to Mr. Dotcom after it was disclosed that the country’s intelligence agency had acted illegally by spying on him, even though he holds a permanent resident’s visa.

Mega, Mr. Dotcom’s new Web site, is a file-storage and sharing system that encrypts files on the user’s computer before they are uploaded to the site’s servers. Files can then be downloaded and decrypted. This means that files on Mega’s servers cannot be read by anyone, including by the company itself, without the user’s decryption key.

The allegation that Mr. Dotcom’s previous venture, Megaupload, knew its users were illegally uploading copyrighted material — and indeed sought to encourage the practice — is a crucial part of the United States Justice Department’s indictment against the site and those who operated it.

In contrast, the new site appears to intentionally distance Mega from any legal responsibility for the content on its servers, although the terms and conditions of the site do explicitly forbid uploading copyrighted material.

“What he’s trying to do is give himself a second-string argument,” Charles Alexander, a lawyer in Sydney who specializes in intellectual property law, told The Associated Press. “‘Even if I was wrong before, this one’s all right because how can I control something if I don’t know that it’s there?”’ he imagined the new company thinking. “I can understand the argument; whether it would be successful or not is another matter.”

American prosecutors declined to comment on the new site, The Associated Press reported, referring only to a court document that cites promises Mr. Dotcom made while seeking bail, including one that he would not start a Megaupload-style business until the criminal case was resolved.

“Legally it’s probably the most scrutinized Internet start-up in history,” Mr. Dotcom said. “Every pixel on the site has been checked for all kinds of illegal — potential legal challenges. We have a great team of very talented lawyers that are experts in intellectual property and Internet law, and they have worked together with us to create Mega.”

The Motion Picture Association of America, which has filed complaints about what it described as copyright infringement by Megaupload, told The Associated Press that it was skeptical that Mr. Dotcom’s new site was harmless. “We are still reviewing how this new project will operate, but we do know that Kim Dotcom has built his career and his fortune on stealing creative works,” it said in a news release.

The Mega site offers 50 gigabytes of storage free; additional storage and bandwidth can be purchased at three tiers of monthly fees.

The service competes with online storage sites like Dropbox and Google Drive. Dropbox provides two gigabytes of storage free, although this can be increased to as much as 18 gigabytes by referring friends to sign up. Google Drive provides five gigabytes of storage free. The two sites offer more storage for a monthly fee, but Mega significantly undercuts them on price for the amount of storage offered.

The main difference in the product is Mega’s encryption of uploaded files.

The encryption software is built by Mega and functions from within the Web browser. Mr Dotcom said it utilized new parts of the HTML5 programming language used to build Web pages. These aspects were introduced only nine months ago, he said.

“A year ago, this wouldn’t have been possible,” Mr. Dotcom said. “No one else who is currently in business in the cloud-storage arena can just update their site and be like us. You have to start from scratch.”

Mega Limited has been registered as a New Zealand company since Nov. 29, 2012. Its directors are listed as Mr. Dotcom, Mathias Ortmann and Antonio Lentino.

Mr. Lentino, known as Tony, described himself at the company event Sunday as its interim chief executive. He lives in New Zealand and has a limited public profile, having appeared only in local news articles about rally car racing, a sport he enjoys. Mr. Dotcom said Mr. Lentino had helped him pay rent when he was in prison and was an investor in Mega, along with two other people, from Luxembourg and Australia.

He is listed as a director of 19 other companies that are registered in New Zealand, including Instra, a company that registers domain names and that is providing “product, billing and technical support services” to Mega, according to an Instra news release. Mr. Ortmann, the chief technical officer of Mega, also faces charges in the Megaupload case and was arrested a year ago.

Mega’s shares are divided among three holding companies, including one that lists Mr. Dotcom’s wife, Mona Dotcom, as its sole director and shareholder and holds more than 85 percent of Mega Limited’s shares. Mr. Dotcom said he hoped to list Mega on the New Zealand stock market.

Despite the fanfare over the introduction Sunday and the initial response to the site, Mr. Dotcom still faces a series of legal battles over Megaupload in both New Zealand and the United States.

He has won several rulings in New Zealand in the year since the raid: Among them are his being granted bail and having some of his frozen assets released. The funds are meant to cover only his living expenses, however; the start-up costs for Mega have been covered by third-party investors.

Mr. Dotcom’s extradition hearing has been postponed several times and is now scheduled for August. But some reports in the news have suggested that it could be years before the legal action is completed, or that it might never happen at all.

Mr. Dotcom said he was still angry about the raid but that he wanted its first anniversary be something “positive.”

“We are still here. We are still breathing,” he said. “Consider what has happened to us a year ago — that is probably the least likely event that anyone would have expected.”
453 2013-01-21 A panoramic view of the inauguration and the crowd from the central press stand. Click and drag to look around the stage.
454 2013-01-21 Thousands attended the inaugural balls to celebrate the start of President Obama’s second term....
455 2013-01-21 Inauguration Day has arrived in Washington, bringing with it chilly winds, a raft of road and bridge closures and a smaller-than-expected crowd eager to watch the start of President Obama’s second term....
456 2013-01-22 An investment by Microsoft — if it comes to pass — could be enough to push a leveraged buyout of the struggling computer maker over the goal line....
457 2013-01-22 Polls show that the president has at least a slim majority of Americans in his corner on most of the issues he highlighted in his inaugural address....
458 2013-01-22 Exterior changes to the flagship Fifth Avenue building of the New York Public Library would include alterations to windows and room for a new loading bay....
459 2013-01-22 CNN prevailed among the main cable news networks for ratings covering President Obama's speech, in the daytime, as well as evening coverage of the inaugural balls. But ratings overall were way down from 2009....
460 2013-01-22 Mandatory reading at the World Economic Forum should be two reminders from JPMorgan Chase and the Federal Reserve that we are far from preventing financial crises....
461 2013-01-22 Two defendants convicted in insider trading cases face efforts by Wall Street firms to claw back legal fees and other expenses....
462 2013-01-22 The violent drama averaged 10.4 million viewers in the coveted 18- to 49-year-old audience, and delivered a bit of good news to Fox after a dismal fall season for the network....
463 2013-01-22 Lawyers for Rajat Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director, have made several arguments on appeal. Among the most significant is that the government should not have been allowed to use certain wiretap evidence during his trial....
464 2013-01-22 A collection of Studio 54 memorabilia and artwork owned by Steve Rubell, the co-founder of that New York disco club, sold for a total of $316,680 at an auction on Saturday, and included items by Warhol as well as candid photos of the club's celebr...
465 2013-01-22 A Marine Corps spokesman contradicted an earlier statement, saying that no one in the Marine Corps Band was in a position to know whether Beyoncé sang the national anthem live or not....
466 2013-01-22 Havas, Paris, is reorganizing its media operations in a way that is similar to a recent reorganization of its advertising operations. Havas is creating a unit, called the Havas Media Group, that will be composed of two media agencies, Havas Media and Arena Media. Also, Havas Media will absorb two other media agencies, MPG and Media Contacts. Alfonso Rodés, chief executive at Havas Media, becomes chief executive at the Havas Media Group and Dominique Delport, chief executive at Havas Media France, becomes chief executive at Havas Media.

David Lee joined Squarespace, New York, in a new post, chief creative officer. He had been worldwide digital executive creative director at TBWA Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group.

David Leitner joined TargetCast TCM, New York, part of the Maxxcom Global Media unit of MDC Partners, in a new post, executive vice president and managing director for client services. He had been senior vice president and group client director at MediaVest, New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

Lucy Activewear, Alameda, Calif., part of the VF Corporation, hired Mono, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as its first agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. Plans call for a campaign in the third quarter for Lucy, which sells apparel that competes with apparel sold by chains like Athleta, part of Gap Inc., and Lululemon.

Drew Meyers joined the San Francisco office of Gyro as president, leading the office with Steffan Postaer, executive creative director. Mr. Meyers succeeds Bob Ray, who is now president at DWA Media. Mr. Meyers had most recently been client services and engagement management lead at Organic, part of the Omnicom Group.

Michael Monroe rejoined Forbes Media, New York, in a new post, executive director for integrated marketing. He had most recently been integrated marketing director at Condé Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, which he joined after leaving Forbes Media in 2010.

Darlàn Monterisi, an executive vice president at Porter Novelli New York, part of Porter Novelli, was promoted to managing director. She succeeds Karen van Bergen, who was recently named chief executive at Porter Novelli. Porter Novelli is part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group.

National Parks Foundation, the philanthropic partner of the National Park Service, named Grey New York for a new assignment, to create a campaign to mark the centennial of the park service in 2016. Spending for the campaign over a five-year period was estimated at $30 million. Grey New York is part of the Grey division of the Grey Group, which is owned by WPP; other Grey Group and WPP agencies will take part in the campaign, including Alliance, for event marketing; Cohn & Wolfe, for public relations; and Wing, for multicultural marketing.

John Partilla joined Olson, Minneapolis, as chief executive. He succeeds Kevin DiLorenzo, who will, the agency said, remain active in its operations as a shareholder, director and senior adviser to Mr. Partilla. Mr. Partilla had most recently been chief operating officer at Dentsu Network West, New York, now known as Dentsu Network, which is a division of Dentsu.

Perkins & Marie Callender’s Holding, Memphis, which is majority owned by Wayzata Investment Partners, selected Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, as media agency of record for its Marie Callender’s brand. The assignment, with spending estimated at $10 million, had been handled by Thayer Media, Centennial, Colo.

Pop, Seattle, a digital agency, was acquired by Advance Publications, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. The agency, which works for clients like Home Depot, Microsoft and Nike, has more than 200 employees in Seattle and an office in San José, Costa Rica. Pop will operate as an autonomous division of Advance.

Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Greenwood Village, Colo., chose Vitro, San Diego and New York, part of MDC Partners, as its national creative agency of record. Spending for the account, which had been handled by Periscope, Minneapolis, was estimated at $20 million. Periscope had also handled the media duties for Red Robin, which are being reassessed in a separate review in which Vitro is also taking part.

Reebok, Canton, Mass., part of Adidas, will return its advertising account to DDB Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, in spring 2014. Last year, Reebok hired McGarryBowen, New York, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, to work on a worldwide campaign. Reebok spends an estimated $300 million each year on advertising.

R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, expanded again, opening an office in Sydney, Australia. The agency had indicated last summer that it wanted to open an office there.

Amanda Richman joined the New York office of Starcom USA, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, as president for investment and activation. She succeeds Mike Rosen, who is leaving, the agency said, to pursue another opportunity. Ms. Richman had been president for digital at MediaVest, New York.

Sleepy’s, Hicksville, N.Y., the mattress retailer, chose Horizon Media, New York, to handle its media planning and buying for traditional and digital media. The assignment, with spending this year estimated at $65 million, had previously been handled internally.

Snyder’s-Lance, Charlotte, N.C., expanded its relationship with GKV, Baltimore, by naming GKV as agency of record for its Snyder’s of Hanover brand of pretzels. Spending was not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by the Baltimore office of Tri-Media Integrated Marketing Technologies. GKV already handles tasks for Snyder’s-Lance brands that include Archway cookies, Cape Cod potato chips and Lance sandwich crackers.

360i, New York, part of Dentsu, opened its first office outside the United States, in London, to be led by Rob Connolly as United Kingdom managing director of 360i; he had been chief development officer at Dentsu. The new London office will be paired with Steak, London, another Dentsu agency.

Mike Vaccaro joined Digitaria, part of the JWT unit of WPP, in a new post, chief client officer. He had most recently been managing director at the Los Angeles office of Huge, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
467 2013-01-22 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is widely expected to win re-election, but some voters still say they are undecided and many lack enthusiasm for Israeli politics.
468 2013-01-22 A crisis in North Africa and a reader's query bring up crucial distinctions in usage....
469 2013-01-22 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
470 2013-01-22 The chief executive of TSMC, one of the biggest semiconductor makers in the world, hinted at big orders to come, fueling the Apple rumor mill that the iPhone maker may soon shift its chip production to the Taiwanese company....
471 2013-01-22 What were the highlights of Monday's inaugural events in Washington, D.C.?...
472 2013-01-22 MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) — Li Na advanced to the Australian Open semifinals for the third time in four years, ending Agnieszka Radwanska’s 13-match winning streak.

Li, the No. 6 seed who lost the 2011 Australian Open final to Kim Clijsters only months before her Grand Slam breakthrough at the French Open, had a 7-5, 6-3 victory over the fourth-seeded Radwanska in Tuesday’s first match at Rod Laver Arena.

“She’s a tough player,” Li said. “I was feeling today against a wall. She can hit everywhere, but without a mistake. I was feeling just very tough. You have to focus on every shot. Not every point, every shot.”

Radwanska came into the Australian Open with titles this season at Auckland and at Sydney, where she beat Li in the semifinals, but continued her poor conversation rate in Grand Slam quarterfinals. She has advanced from the quarterfinals once in seven tries — at Wimbledon last year, where she later lost in the final to Serena Williams.

Li will play the winner of an all-Russian quarterfinal between No. 2-ranked Maria Sharapova, who conceded only five games in her first four matches at Melbourne Park, and Ekaterina Makarova.
473 2013-01-22 But for Cornell NYC Tech, that close relationship is not merely the desired outcome; it is the founding premise. “The campus was set up specifically to increase the talent pool in New York City,” Dr. Skorton said, “to positively influence the New York City economy.”

New York City’s Economic Development Corporation, which helped select Cornell NYC Tech as the winner of a competition for $100 million in funds and $300 million worth of real estate from the city, predicts that the companies that will spin out from its campus will create tens of thousands of new jobs.

Calculations like that, impressive as they may be, have given some observers pause.

“The university has been at the forefront of big science since the 1940s and 1950s,” said Isaac Kramnick, a professor of government at Cornell’s main campus in Ithaca. “Now it’s entering an era in which it seems to be interested in for-profit science, and that does require some thinking as to what the fundamental purpose of a university is.”

Daniel Huttenlocher, the dean of Cornell NYC Tech, is the first to admit that this new academic model is rife with potential conflicts of interest.

“I think there are lots of risks in trying to bring what are fundamentally different cultures and sets of goals together,” he said. “Companies need to make a profit. Universities have different motives — partly societal good, partly education — and that leads to different value systems.” For starters, he said, “if a student that a faculty member is advising is working at a company that the faculty member has a financial interest in, is the faculty member really keeping students’ interests in mind?”

Dr. Skorton, an expert in research ethics, mentioned several other areas of concern, including the work that students will do with outside companies. “If you don’t protect that interaction crisply and clearly,” he said, “you could be concerned about the student basically working in an unpaid capacity for industry.”

Like Dean Huttenlocher, however, Dr. Skorton argues that the best solution to these potential conflicts is not to tiptoe around them, but to highlight them, debate them and arrive at appropriate safeguards.

Cornell’s program, a partnership with Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, is starting small, with just eight students this semester (and a starting tuition of $43,185), but it will scale up to 2,000 students by 2037. Unlike schools like Stanford or M.I.T., it is open only to master’s degree students studying the applied sciences. This allows it to bypass the broad educational needs of undergraduates and focus instead on one distinct but shared goal: “cultivating entrepreneurial technologists,” in the words of Greg Pass, the former Twitter executive who is Cornell NYC Tech’s chief entrepreneurial officer.

It is all an attempt, Mr. Pass said, to catch up with the way research occurs these days. “In the manufacturing age,” he said, “it really was largely true that innovation began in university labs,” then made its way to corporate research and development labs, and years later to some consumer application.

Today, many of the most innovative ideas come from the market itself, and only later undergo intensive research. “In my own experience at Twitter,” he said, “we had to backfill expertise into the most difficult areas of technological challenge.”

To create a more fluid exchange of ideas, then, professors will be not just permitted, but also encouraged, to take time off to work on commercial (or even nonprofit) projects. And instead of protracted legal battles with the university over intellectual property rights to those projects, the companies that oversee them will get a contract designed to facilitate frictionless collaboration. At the same time, Cornell Tech is setting up a business development office to seek out prospects for cooperation and promote opportunities, and Cornell itself is setting aside $150 million to invest in New York’s technology scene. As for the companies involved, they will have the option to “co-locate” in office space on campus.

In some cases, a company’s employees will pursue their work in the academic buildings themselves, coding and designing and networking right alongside the faculty and students, then breaking for lunch in the cafeteria just like any other member of the Cornell NYC Tech community. They can come and lecture on Fridays, which are set aside for students to learn from people outside of academia, or invite teams of students to work on challenges the company faces as part of a hands-on “master’s project” that takes the place of a traditional master’s thesis.

A number of companies have signed on for some part of the Cornell NYC Tech experience, from young start-ups like Artsy to nonprofits like the Robin Hood Foundation to influential corporations like McKinsey & Company, the management consultants, and Google itself. The main motivation they cite is the shortage of qualified job candidates in New York’s rapidly expanding technology sector.

“By the time they’re graduating and they’re looking for a full-time job, it’s too late to get the best ones,” said Daniel Doubrovkine, Artsy’s head of engineering. “We want to reach the best ones very early, and we want them to experience the real world of a technology company while they’re still in school.”

Many companies would, presumably, be willing to pay a high price for access to the most elite new talent pool in New York’s technology world, but they will not have to. “I think the companies that can pay the most money don’t necessarily make the best partners,” said Dean Huttenlocher. “Universities live and die on their academic reputations. So to the degree to which interaction with a company can help us attract better faculty or generate better research, that’s incredibly valuable.”

But the model is still in an early phase, or in beta, to use the preferred idiom. “It’s entirely possible,” Mr. Pass said, “that this time next year we’ll have scrapped these principles and come up with others.”

No one, however, envisions exporting them to the creative writing program. “There certainly is a case for large swaths of scholarship that should be divorced from the market,” he said.
474 2013-01-22 “At some point, the job’s done,” Mr. Brown said during a fiery news conference on Jan. 8 in Sacramento, the state capital, where he defended the prison system. California has spent billions of dollars to comply with federal demands, he said: “We can’t pour more and more dollars down the rathole of incarceration.”

But a court-appointed monitor said in papers filed last week that Mr. Brown’s demand to end oversight is “not only premature, but a needless distraction” that could affect care for mentally ill inmates. The monitor cited dozens of suicides and long periods of isolation instead of treatment.

The leaky toilets have been boarded up at the prison in this suburban city east of Los Angeles. Inmates waiting to see a doctor are placed in holding pens that once doubled as cells in the hallways. Prisoners are being let out into the yard more often, as officers are less concerned that their time out of cells will inevitably lead to tensions.

Critics, including the lawyers who sued the state on behalf of prisoners, say that many of the changes are nothing more than cosmetic and that the system still does not provide adequate care to physically or mentally ill inmates.

“We’re wasting a lot of money on nonsense,” Mr. Brown said. “Everybody wants to send people to prison. Nobody wants to pay for it.”

Many advocates, had hoped that the court rulings would prompt more changes in the state’s aggressive sentencing laws, and submitted papers showing that there would be no uptick in crime rates if more prisoners were released. Officials have argued that they have already released the lowest-level offenders and that further releases would threaten public safety, even if there were no increase in overall crime.

“The state refuses to engage with the fundamental problem, which is that we incarcerate far too many people for far too long,” said Allen Hopper, a policy director with the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California. “What has gotten us into this mess in the first place is the constant ratcheting up of sentencing laws.”

California is expected to spend $8.6 billion on prisons this year, the third-largest chunk of the state’s total budget, just behind public schools and health care.

It now has roughly 130,000 prisoners, with 119,000 housed in state prisons. That is a significant drop from 162,500 in 2006, the height of the crisis. But it is still nearly 10,000 more than what the courts said they would allow by a June 2013 deadline. Nearly 8,900 inmates are in out-of-state facilities. Most of the inmates shed by the state prisons were lower-level offenders who were sent to county jails.

State officials said that the independent monitors appointed by the courts showed in their latest reports that there were no “particularly significant problems to highlight,” and that in one report, the monitors said reductions in the waiting lists for medical care demonstrated “a dramatic improvement that is unprecedented.”

The governor went so as far as to argue that inmates received better medical care inside the prisons than they would once they were released.

In papers filed with the federal courts, the state outlined possible plans to release some prisoners early to comply with the Supreme Court ruling, but it argued that an early release would be dangerous and vowed to fight any court order demanding it.

Instead, the state asked the courts to abandon the requirement to reduce the total prison population.

“The overcrowding and health care conditions cited by this court to support its population reduction order are now a distant memory,” the state argued. “Any further court-ordered population reductions would threaten public safety and interfere with California’s independent right to determine its own criminal justice laws.”

The plaintiffs and other inmate advocates have reacted to the recent statements with dismay and fury. The lawyers representing the inmates said that in 2011, there were 43 “preventable” deaths involving prisoners who did not receive proper medical care in state prisons.

In one case, they said, an inmate’s skin cancer went untreated for nine months, and in another, a prisoner’s recurring symptoms of shortness of breath were “poorly managed.” After another inmate was given too much medication for his heart, the lawyers said, his blood pressure plummeted so low that he died.

“To pretend everything is O.K. is just crazy,” said Donald Specter, the executive director of Prison Law Office, an organization that has represented plaintiffs in the case. “There are still prisoners who are not getting the care they need, and there is no way they have timely access to a doctor.”

The reduction in overcrowding has not been uniform. Here in Chino, the prison is at 120 percent capacity. The prison population in Avenal, a state facility for men in Northern California, is at 160 percent of capacity — housing 5,000 inmates in a space built for 3,000.

The state says that the figures used to determine the capacity of the prisons are arbitrary and out of date. The vast majority of cells that on paper are designed for only one inmate can easily accommodate two, says Terri McDonald, the state’s under secretary of corrections.

“The system is constitutional systemically,” she said. “If you were to ask if there if there was an individual case that could be handled differently, that is going to be a problem anywhere. Anybody looking for perfection is going to be disappointed.”
475 2013-01-22 Fashion is no longer the forbidden subject it once was in American politics.

Embracing expensive designer clothes — and a lot of them — has not been a problem for Michelle Obama in the way that similar pursuits haunted Nancy Reagan, or even Jacqueline Kennedy.

Changing a hairstyle, as Mrs. Obama did on Thursday, was not the cause for alarm that it was for Hillary Rodham Clinton, even though the president himself was moved to address Mrs. Obama’s new bangs as “the more significant event of this weekend.”

To some, this inauguration, in fact, may have been as much an occasion for celebrating the first lady’s style as it was for President Obama’s second term, and it demonstrated, once again, just how cannily she has used fashion to define her image, without becoming defined by it. Her choices are safe but interesting, with enough of a story and a variety to keep fashion obsessives engrossed. Wearing a broad array of mostly American designers also feeds into the idea that she is doing her part for the fashion industry.

This was again the case on Monday, when Mrs. Obama, in a spectacular fashion show, chose her inaugural wardrobe from a range of not-quite-famous American designers, lifting them instantly to the level of household names, and then surprised everyone by choosing Jason Wu to design her inaugural gown for a second time.

All day, designers were glued to the television to see what Mrs. Obama was wearing, hoping it would be them, but she ultimately chose the same one who made the first inauguration a fashion success. The dress was persimmon-colored with cross-halter straps and a loose fit similar to the ivory one-shouldered gown she wore in 2009. Her shoes were from Jimmy Choo, and the dress design included a handmade diamond ring by Kimberly McDonald.

“I’m still floating,” Mr. Wu said from his design studio, where he was watching the ball with his staff. “It is a big surprise. The White House kept me pretty clueless until five minutes ago.”
476 2013-01-22 Reporters and editors from The New York Times offered context and analysis on President Obama’s inaugural address.
477 2013-01-22 As Thomas L. Friedman points out in “Collaborate vs. Collaborate” (column, Jan. 13), the word has both positive and negative connotations, the latter often referring to working with the Nazis in World War II.

From the Latin “collaborare” (“to work together”), the term per se is neither positive nor negative, neither good nor bad, however, until someone determines that it is. History makes these judgments.

As more than one World War II French collaborator whom I interviewed for a book told me, he would have been viewed far differently by history had the war ended with a German victory. On the other hand, an American colleague recalled receiving a noticeably cool reception when she urged “collaboration” at a meeting of university administrators in France.

How the collaboration in the United States that Mr. Friedman describes plays out will be told in the future.

The writer is a professor of history at Mills College and the author of “Collaborationism in France During the Second World War.”
478 2013-01-22 For we, the people, understand that our country cannot succeed when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make it.

We understand that outworn programs are inadequate to the needs of our time. We So we must harness new ideas and technology to remake our government, revamp our tax code, reform our schools, and empower our citizens with the skills they need to work harder, learn more, and reach higher.

We, the people, still believe that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security and dignity. We must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of our deficit. But we reject the belief that America must choose between caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the generation that will build its future.

We do not believe that in this country, freedom is reserved for the lucky, or happiness for the few. We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, any one of us, at any time, may face a job loss, or a sudden illness, or a home swept away in a terrible storm. The commitments we make to each other – through Medicare, and Medicaid, and Social Security, – these things do not sap our initiative; ,they strengthen us. They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make this country great.

We, the people, still believe that our obligations as Americans are not just to ourselves, but to all posterity. We will respond to the threat of climate change, knowing that the failure to do so would betray our children and future generations. Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires, and crippling drought, and more powerful storms.

We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths – that all of us are created equal – is the star that guides us still; just as it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls, and Selma, and Stonewall; just as it guided all those men and women, sung and unsung, who left footprints along this great Mall, to hear a preacher say that we cannot walk alone; to hear a King proclaim that our individual freedom is inextricably bound to the freedom of every soul on Earth.

It is now our generation’s task to carry on what those pioneers began. For our journey is not complete until our wives, our mothers, and daughters can earn a living equal to their efforts. Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law – for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well. Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait for hours to exercise the right to vote. Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity,y; until bright young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled from our country. Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the streets of Detroit to the hills of Appalachia to the quiet lanes of Newtown, know that they are cared for, and cherished, and always safe from harm.

That is our generation’s task – to make these words, these rights, these values – of Llife, and Lliberty, and the Ppursuit of Hhappiness – real for every American. Being true to our founding documents does not require us to agree on every contour of life;. I it does not mean we will all define liberty in exactly the same way, or follow the same precise path to happiness. Progress does not compel us to settle centuries-long debates about the role of government for all time, – but it does require us to act in our time.

For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay. We cannot mistake absolutism for principle, or substitute spectacle for politics, or treat name-calling as reasoned debate. We must act, knowing that our work will be imperfect.
479 2013-01-22 A study suggests encouraging drug abusers to use thin syringes, which retain less fluid and the virus it may contain.

Distributing “low-dead-space syringes” to addicts could substantially lessen H.I.V. transmission among them, a new study has estimated.

Syringes have widely varying amounts of “dead space” — the amount of fluid retained even when the plunger is fully depressed, said William A. Zule, a researcher at RTI International and the lead author of the paper in The International Journal of Drug Policy.

Fat ones with interchangeable needles may have 40 times as much dead space as thin ones like those used by diabetics. And simulations of the way addicts draw in blood and rinse with water showed that the biggest syringes can retain 1,000 times as much virus as thinner ones.

Many foreign governments that distribute syringes ignore dead space and buy whatever is cheapest, Dr. Zule said.

Recipients of clean syringes are not supposed to share them, but some do. Users of heroin, cocaine or methamphetamine usually accept thin syringes, the study said. Users of poppy straw extract, homemade stimulants or crushed tablets may not.
480 2013-01-22 LONDON (AP) — Hopes that United States politicians will be able to reach a deal on raising the government’s debt ceiling, avoiding the risk of a disastrous default, supported global markets on Monday, with Wall Street closed for a holiday.

Congress must agree by the end of February to increase the limit on how much the nation can borrow so the government can service its debt. If it doesn’t, the country could default, which would deal a heavy blow to global financial markets and undermine confidence in the world’s largest economy.

Republicans appear ready to raise the debt ceiling temporarily and have also backed away from their insistence on deep spending concessions in exchange for a deal. The signs of compromise last week encouraged investors to buy into stock indexes, many of which are near multiyear highs.

“Although this again could be seen as another round of political battle, any progress to avoid immediate dangers will likely be seen as positive by the market,” Gary Yau, analyst at Crédit Agricole, said in a report to investors.

The FTSE 100 in Britain closed Monday up 0.43 percent, at 6,180.98, the DAX in Germany advanced 0.36 percent, to 7,729.80. The CAC-40 in France ended the day up 0.2 percent, at 3,749.79.
481 2013-01-23 At some point during rehearsals “Collision,” Lyle Kessler’s new play about a college roommate from hell, underwent a metamorphosis, or at least a branding change. A press representative for the show announced last week that its creators, the Off Broadway troupe the Amoralists, “are now billing the play as a drama, not a black comedy as originally announced.”

Current events, it would seem, have collided with “Collision,” which runs through Feb. 17 at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. The Götterdämmerung foretold by this show’s final scenes is hardly — as several impulse-twittering comedians have discovered — the sort of thing the public feels like chuckling over at the moment. (Spoiler-allergic readers, avert your eyes after this colon: I’m talking about violence on a college campus.)

So now a play that might once have sported a satanic grin is obliged to furrow its brow. And furrowing does not flatter this latest work from Mr. Kessler, whose “Orphans” opens on Broadway this spring. Taken as a fast, creepy exercise in suspense, “Collision” might be reasonably diverting. But as it sprints and staggers toward an apocalyptic conclusion, it doesn’t sustain the scrutiny it’s now bound to invite.

Like “Orphans,” Mr. Kessler’s best-known play, this one involves three men — two younger, one older — angered by feelings of homelessness and dispossession. For “Collision” Mr. Kessler has added a skirt to the equation. But the show still has enough testosterone to make it suitable for the Amoralists, specialists in bruising, rowdy-guy theater.

If you were trying to pitch this story to Hollywood, you might come up with, “Leopold and Loeb with automatic weapons!” Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb were law students who, in 1924, murdered a 14-year-old boy, just because they could. Their crime has inspired plays, books and movies (“Rope,” “Compulsion“), with Loeb, the dominant member of the pair, receiving the most fascinated focus.

In “Collision” our latter-day Loeb is named Grange. And as portrayed by James Kautz he suggests what might have happened to Eddie Haskell — the unctuously ingratiating boy next door from “Leave It to Beaver” — if he had become a disciple of Nietzsche. Ever so polite, flattering and sophistic, Grange exists to bend people to his will.
482 2013-01-23 In the past month, there have been reports that Apple is working on a smaller, cheaper iPhone. But the latest sales numbers do not make it appear that Apple needs to sell one....
483 2013-01-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
484 2013-01-23 Netflix reported $8 million in net income and a jump in the number of subscribers for its streaming service. Analysts were surprised, and investors jumped, sending its shares up 37 percent in Thursday trading....
485 2013-01-23 Brooks Barnes takes a look at how the Sundance Film Festival has changed over the years and the growing options for filmmakers trying to sell their movies.
486 2013-01-23 New video of last week's deadly attack on Syria's Aleppo University suggests that at least one of the two explosions was caused by a missile....
487 2013-01-23 The “Spider-Man” and “Lion King” director will return to the stage with an Off Broadway production of Shakespeare’s play at Theater for a New Audience....
488 2013-01-23 An audio engineer's analysis suggests that Beyoncé may have performed the national anthem accompanied by her own recording....
489 2013-01-23 Simple, a new banking service, lets users attach photos and other images to their financial transactions....
490 2013-01-23 Wednesday in Science, we’re reading about killer penguins, texting moms, asteroid mining, designing a more pleasurable condom and a maple leaf controversy in Canada. Check out these and other science headlines from around the Web.

No Escape from a Hungry Penguin: Hungry penguins with tiny video cameras strapped to their backs have given scientists a rare glimpse of their killer feeding habits, reports The Guardian. In more than 14 hours of filming using cameras strapped to 11 Adélie penguins, not once did a bird fail to capture its prey. Penguins are such efficient killers, most of their victims have no time to hide, while others try in vain to flee. Watch it all on Penguin-cam.

The Last 925,000 Pounds Are Always the Hardest: Boston’s citywide challenge to lose one million pounds in a year appears to have fallen about 925,000 pounds short, The Wall Street Journal reports. With just a few months left to go, the city’s collective weight loss has reached only about 75,000 pounds. Why did the city diet fail? Maybe it was the “Scooper Bowl” all-you-can-eat ice cream festival.

The Condom Gets a Makeover: Most condoms are made of latex. Los Angeles design company Strata has developed a new silicone condom it claims not only does a better job blocking viruses and bacteria, but also scores more points in the pleasure department. You can learn more about the “Origami” condom and watch a video at New Scientist (registration required).

Canada Turns Over a New Leaf: Canada’s new $20, $50 and $100 bills appear to have the wrong maple leaf on them, reports BBC Canada. Botanists say the bills feature a Norwegian maple leaf, with five lobes, rather than the Canadian sugar maple leaf, which has just three lobes. Bank of Canada officials say the image is a “stylized blend” of maple leaves created with the help of a botanist and designed to avoid regional bias.

Universal Art: Scientists use thin sections of meteorites to study the history of the universe. But to the rest of us, they are just really pretty. Scientific American offers a slide show revealing the stained-glass beauty in ancient meteorites.
491 2013-01-23 The total was down sharply from four years ago for President Obama's first inauguration, but higher than George W. Bush's second inauguration in 2005....
492 2013-01-23 Federal authorities charged three Eastern European men with using a computer virus, nicknamed Gozi, that surreptitiously infected over a million computers worldwide, including at NASA, to steal what prosecutors said was at least tens of millions o...
493 2013-01-23 The museum on Wednesday opened the third floor of its South Wing, part of a $93 million renovation....
494 2013-01-23 At the American Museum of Natural History, a cougar relaxes on a perch in the Grand Canyon....
495 2013-01-23 Documents released as part of a lawsuit against Morgan Stanley shed new light on what bankers knew at the height of the housing bubble and what they did with that secret knowledge....
496 2013-01-23 Also, country music radio returns to New York, and a big premiere for Fox's "The Following."...
497 2013-01-23 In Microsoft, Silver Lake may have found a major ally for a takeover effort for Dell. | The Davos agenda has few meetings on financial risk, creating the impression that the world's leaders have other priorities. | Should bankers have faced crimin...
498 2013-01-23 A back-and-forth about SSI, my reporting and how best to make progress on poverty....
499 2013-01-23 An investment by Microsoft — if it comes to pass — could be enough to push a leveraged buyout of the struggling computer maker over the goal line....
500 2013-01-23 During a contentious panel discussion, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase defended the banking industry’s changes since the financial crisis as Axel Weber, the chairman of UBS, criticized central bankers....
501 2013-01-23 A focus on women, Buddhism and South Asian literature after last year's international extravaganza....
502 2013-01-23 It helped that the Devils, off to a quick 2-0 start after Saturday night’s 2-1 road win against the Islanders, produced another dominant performance against a Philadelphia team they dispatched in five games in last season’s Eastern Conference semifinals. The Devils went on to lose to the Los Angeles Kings in six games in the Stanley Cup finals.

“It was disappointing,” right wing Ilya Kovalchuk said of the end of last season, “but we took a lot of positive things out of it.”

The Devils’ offense was considered suspect after the team captain Zach Parise, an explosive scorer, departed as a free agent to play in his home state of Minnesota, signing a 13-year contract worth $98 million with the Wild.

Lou Lamoriello, the Devils’ general manager, responded to that loss with a move halfway through last week’s six-day training camp that already looks to be another in a seemingly endless list of shrewd transactions. He locked up center Travis Zajac with the longest contract a team is allowed to offer one of its players under the new collective bargaining agreement. The eight-year deal totaled $46 million.

Although a left Achilles’ injury limited Zajac to 15 games in the regular season last year, he emerged as a key figure in the playoffs with seven goals and seven assists. Zajac is continuing that strong play in the early going of the abbreviated 48-game schedule.

He scored the Devils’ first goal of the season Saturday. He also was the first player to break through against Philadelphia, at 1 minute 7 seconds of the first period. Zajac was in perfect position, camped alone at the right side of the net, to bang home a rebound allowed by goaltender Ilya Bryzgalov.

The Devils were lucky and good when Clarkson tallied with 24.9 seconds left in the first. Clarkson flipped the puck in front of Philadelphia’s net, where the Flyers’ Ruslan Fedotenko had it inadvertently carom off his skate past Bryzgalov for a power-play goal. The Devils led, 2-0, despite being outshot, 9-3, in the opening period.

Bryzgalov was no match for Kovalchuk after Kovalchuk was awarded a penalty shot 2:44 into the second period. Kovalchuk bore down on the net and adroitly shifted the puck to his backhand to beat Bryzgalov. It was the third successful try for Kovalchuk in four career penalty shots, and it came short-handed.

For now, it appears the Devils can find enough offense without Parise.

“You just hope it’s going to happen all year because we are going to need guys to step up and fill that void,” Brodeur said. “We’re not a team that relies on one or two players. When we got to be successful last year, it was because the depth of our hockey team was present.”

Clarkson said: “No one can replace Zach. We’re not in here saying, ‘Who is going to replace Zach Parise?’ We’re going to play our game. That’s all we can do.”

And, as always, they will look to the seemingly ageless Brodeur.
503 2013-01-23 Spain will open the Davis Cup against Canada without its injured star Rafael Nadal or its regular player David Ferrer. ...John Isner and Sam Querrey will join Bob and Mike Bryan on the United State team to play Brazil in the Davis Cup.
504 2013-01-23 After getting sworn in for his second term, President Obama joined his wife and 220 others for the traditional Inaugural Luncheon, held in the Capitol’s grand Statuary Hall.

Senator Charles E. Schumer served as master of ceremonies for the luncheon, which featured an array of edible goodies from New York State. Notably absent, though, was a sweet treat: Brooklyn honey.

“The honey was originally going to come from Red Hook in Brooklyn,” Mr. Schumer told a reporter before the event. “They were wiped out in Sandy, the bees and the hive.”

This perplexed several beekeepers in Red Hook. One, Yeshwant Chitalkar, a community psychiatrist and purveyor of Red Hook Honey, said his bees and hives weathered the storm just fine. Mr. Chitalkar keeps two hives on the rooftop of his home and sells his wares at neighborhood shops.

As the winds were picking up in Hurricane Sandy’s approach, he strapped down the hives to guard against the boxes’ flying apart and killing the queen bees. While the hurricane’s surging waters wiped out the entire garden-floor level of Mr. Chitalkar’s home, the hives were barely touched, save for one of them, which traveled a few inches in the wind, but otherwise stayed upright.
505 2013-01-23 The inauguration went above politics to our country’s vast cultural sea change of inclusion.

Let us count the ways:

¶From Myrlie Evers-Williams, the widow of the slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers, to the president’s ringing “through Seneca Falls and Selma and Stonewall” and explicit call for gay rights.

¶From Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, the Rev. Luis Leon and the poet Richard Blanco, to how in Mr. Blanco’s words “20 children were marked absent today, and forever.”

¶And from the interracial Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir to James Taylor and Beyoncé.

This inspiringly inclusive and maybe first thoroughly 21st-century inaugural shows that Barack Obama’s re-election was a statement that change has truly come to America.

And “in the words of the old Negro spiritual” that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whose spirit hovered over the inaugural, proclaimed 50 years ago, may we repeat — with greater hope this time — “at last!”

Tears, not words, were all I could muster in response to the president’s ardent inclusion of “our gay brothers and sisters” in this ever-expanding American family. It is an amazing feeling to have grown up invisible and ashamed and to live to hear the president say, essentially, “I see you.”
506 2013-01-23 Investigators in the United States and Japan indicated on Tuesday that many questions remained unanswered in their search for the cause of two incidents in which lithium-ion batteries burned on Boeing 787 aircraft.

In Washington, the National Transportation Safety Board said on Sunday that the battery on a Japanese plane that suffered a fire at a gate at Logan airport in Boston on Jan. 7 had not been charged beyond its maximum design voltage, 32 volts.

But on Tuesday, Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for the board, said that while the flight recorder had not indicated excessive voltage, that did not eliminate the possibility of charging problems. Experts in lithium-ion batteries said the batteries may have been charged too quickly, a possibility cited last week by Hideyo Kosugi, an investigator general for aircraft accidents in Japan.

In Japan, officials said on Wednesday that air safety investigators had asked the national space agency, JAXA, to examine the battery from the Air Nippon Airlines 787 that made the emergency landing last week. JAXA will conduct a scan of the battery. Experts from the company that built it, GS Yuasa, intend to take it apart afterward and examine each cell.

Ms. Nantel said her agency had given information to the Japanese on the progress in examining the Logan battery. It underwent CT scans and X-rays. “We’re sharing our experience,” she said. “They’re several days behind us.”

Senate aides in Washington are organizing a hearing to examine how the plane was certified by the Federal Aviation Administration. The administrator of the F.A.A. and the secretary of transportation, are expected to speak on Wednesday about progress of the inquiry.
507 2013-01-23 Sergei Kuznetsov, a Russian journalist who has exposed corruption, left in 2011 and moved to Georgia after his attempts to seek refuge in Britain and Israel failed. The European Union has been criticized for dithering on asylum requests from Chechens and other ethnic minorities who have left Russia.

Mr. Dolmatov, Ms. Rybachenko and Mr. Maglov were all casualties of a government crackdown over a series of protests in Bolotnaya Square, which has a long history as a site of repression. Two legendary Cossack leaders were executed there: Stepan Razin in 1671 and Yemelyan Pugachev in 1775.

More recently, the square was the site of the biggest protests in Russia since the Soviet era. In December 2011, tens of thousands of Russians gathered there to protest fraud and manipulation in parliamentary elections. Mr. Putin, the president from 2000 to 2008, was prime minister at the time, while his protégé Dmitri A. Medvedev was president. The men announced a series of political reforms and a reshuffling of Mr. Putin’s staff, which gave liberals slight hope.

Mr. Putin, a K.G.B. officer during the Soviet era, has always been nervous about street protests. His regime was terrified by the largely peaceful revolutions that toppled dictators in Serbia in 2000, Georgia in 2003 and Ukraine in 2004, as well as the Arab Spring.

But the Kremlin quickly recovered from its initial fright. Last May, just before Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev switched jobs, thousands of Russians again thronged Bolotnaya Square. Instead of concessions, the government responded with repression. It went after ordinary participants in the protests, including a student, a journalist, even a chemist. Sometimes the authorities would first search the home of a suspect, then detain him a few days later. Because of that delay, several opposition participants managed to avoid detention by fleeing Russia after their homes were searched.

One of them, Mr. Dolmatov, went farther than others in his flight to safety. Unlike other people persecuted in connection with the demonstrations, he had been under surveillance by the F.S.B. (the K.G.B.’s successor) long before the demonstrations started, because he worked for a state-run missile-design company and had a government security clearance. After he fled, during a search of his parents’ home, a government agent told them their son was lucky to have left, or he would have been charged not only with protesting but also spying.

Mr. Dolmatov is returning to Russia — to be buried. His death is a tragedy to those who knew him and also to thousands of anti-Putin protesters who, fearing persecution, have hoped that the West would offer them a haven.

During the cold war, Western public opinion was resolutely on the side of harboring persecuted Soviet dissidents. But as the European Union has drawn closer to Russia economically, interest in Russian human rights has waned, except when developments are so outrageous — like the assassination of the journalist Anna Politkovskaya in 2006 — that they cannot be ignored. If the West’s doors remain closed, more Russian dissidents will become victims of the state — or die by their own hands.
508 2013-01-23 ON Jan. 10, while Hugo Chávez lay in a hospital bed in Havana, he was symbolically sworn in as Venezuela’s new president in a ceremony here. The crowd that attended his virtual inauguration was moved to tears by a recording of Mr. Chávez’s singing the national anthem. The country is experiencing the very odd circumstance of being both with and without its leader; he is not here, but his voice endures.

From the intensive care unit, the president “continues to perform his duties”; he gives orders and sends kisses to children. This is what his vice president says. According to the Supreme Court, the Congress cannot consider him absent, for no matter how ill he is, only Mr. Chávez himself has the authority to declare himself absent. The opposition is demanding a “fe de vida” — proof that he is still alive, as if he were a kidnapping victim. Day after day, on the street, on Twitter, our president dies and comes back to life. But this is not a magical realist novel.

After 14 years as president, Mr. Chávez controls all public powers: the legislative body, the Supreme Court, the public prosecutor’s office, to say nothing of the oil industry. Of all those who have held office since the end of the military dictatorship in 1958, none has concentrated power quite as Mr. Chávez has.

From the moment he won his first election, he knew that he had not made it to the presidency in order to run a sound government. He had come to change the course of history. In the name of the dispossessed, he revived the ghost of the South American military caudillo, creating a new version of that traditional strongman. He sings ranchera songs on Sunday and negotiates with Iran on Monday. He is a child of the telenovela who invokes the old-fashioned left. As president he deftly combines power with melodrama.

He astutely took advantage of the failure of neoliberalism and the traditional elites, as well as the antipolitical climate at the time, promising to democratize the country’s oil income and eliminate deep social inequalities. And riding the wave of an oil boom, he secured the loyalty of the poor.

But his “21st century socialism” is a populist, patronage-oriented model that depends less on ideology than it does on the price of a barrel of crude. He has managed to revive the illusion of a sustainable society that distributes rather than creates wealth. And thanks to this illusion, he has been able to maintain his ironclad grip on power.
509 2013-01-23 An Egyptian rights group on Tuesday accused the country’s police of “acting like a gang,” torturing detainees and using violence to impose control. The report by the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights documented 16 cases of police violence in which 11 people were killed and 10 were tortured inside police stations. Three died under torture during the first four months after President Mohammed Morsi took office on June 30, it said. The police were among the most hated state institutions under Hosni Mubarak, who was deposed in a popular revolt in 2011. “Police still use excessive force, and torture is still systematic just as it was under the Mubarak regime,” the report said. It also accused the police of carrying out random shootings and collective punishment. There was no immediate comment from the government.
510 2013-01-23 The choir is directed by his wife, Carol, 65, Chicago-born but Brooklyn-raised. She cannot read sheet music but has an innate musical sense for captivating harmonies, he said. The choir has won six Grammy Awards for gospel singing and performed at Carnegie Hall and Radio City Music Hall, as well as during Billy Graham crusades.

But no previous event matched the grandeur and spectacle of the inauguration, which was seen on television by more than a billion people. On a chilly but brightly sunny day, the choir members stood on a high balcony outside the Capitol and were decked out in new coats — crimson and fur-lined for the women, navy blue with red scarves for the men — contributed by a Macy’s executive who is a member of the Brooklyn Tabernacle church.

Looking over the president, his cabinet, the Supreme Court, members of Congress and a crowd in the hundreds of thousands, they sang a new arrangement of “Battle Hymn” by Mrs. Cymbala and her assistant, Jason Michael Webb. On television, a pleased Mr. Obama was seen craning his neck to look up as they sang. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and former President Bill Clinton similarly strained to watch.

The experience, Mrs. Cymbala said later, left the choir members deeply moved.

“They were weeping,” she said. “It meant so much to them. We’re just average people but we represent this country, and that we could be there, it was such an honor for us.”

Alicia Olatuja, 30, a mezzo-soprano who sang the hymn’s solo phrase that begins with the words “In the beauty of the lilies,” said she did not fully realize the impact of the choir’s performance until she boarded the bus to return home and her smartphone lighted up with 150 text messages and hundreds of Twitter posts.

“My Facebook page had hundreds of comments, and my mother’s phone actually crashed,” Ms. Olatuja said. “And when I saw the video and saw the look on the president’s face, that’s when it really hit me: ‘You actually affected people in a positive way.’ ”

Durell Comedy, 26, a professional dancer with the Limón Dance Company and a choir member since 2009, also said it took some time for the singularity of his singing at a presidential inauguration to fully register — until he returned to his Downtown Brooklyn home and watched a video of it.

“I know I can tell my children and grandchildren that I and the choir sang for the president,” he said, “and not only for him but to represent our country and our people.”

The invitation to the choir had come from Senator Schumer, who was making arrangements last summer for the inauguration even though it was far from clear then that Mr. Obama would win a second term. Mr. Cymbala, who watched the events on Monday from his apartment in Brooklyn, said Mr. Schumer had visited the church occasionally and addressed the congregation, so he was familiar with the choir and the life changes many of its members had gone through. Many of the congregants say they have been born again, the pastor said.

“People who were drug addicts put their faith in Christ and found the power in him not to do drugs anymore,” Mr. Cymbala said. “People who were suicidal, were making money but had no meaning in life, found meaning through the message of Christ and the Gospel.”

Bursting with pleasure at the performance was not just Mr. Schumer, but also Marty Markowitz, the borough’s president and its chief cheerleader.

“The Brooklyn Tabernacle represents Brooklyn at its best and our ethnic diversity,” Mr. Markowitz said in a telephone interview. “It just fulfilled what I really believe, that Brooklyn is the heart of America.”
511 2013-01-23 The blue-tinted shell looms over Las Vegas Boulevard, largely unnoticed by the thousands of tourists who walk by every day. If it serves any purpose now, it is as what may be the most expensive billboard in the country. On a recent day, half of the north side of the $275 million building sported a poster for “Zarkana,” a production of Cirque du Soleil, at the Aria, a hotel in CityCenter that is up and operating.

“It’s like you have this dead space — use it for something,” said Chris Giunchigliani, a Clark County commissioner whose district includes Las Vegas. “The whole Strip is overbuilt. We overbuilt rooms. We overbuilt everything.”

The likelihood that construction faults will result in the razing of the Harmon is arguably something of a gift for MGM Resorts International, one of its principal owners, a reason not to open a hotel that many analysts say would struggle during this economic downturn. That is particularly the case since two years ago, the always-bustling Cosmopolitan Hotel — catering to a similar demographic — opened, directly across the street.

“This gives them a chance to reset,” said Billy Vassiliadis, the head of the Nevada advertising agency that represents the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. “It’s a great space, a premium piece of real estate. They could rebuild it; they could build a different venue.”

In a continuing court battle, MGM blamed its contractor, the Tutor Perini Building Corporation, for the construction defects and sought to force the company to pay damages and the cost of dismantling the Harmon, around $400 million. “The building is unusable,” said Alan M. Feldman, MGM’s senior vice president for public affairs. “The county says it can’t be occupied. The county asked us for a remediation plan, we gave it to them and that was to take the building down.”

“We had a contract with Perini that we would pay them to give us a certain kind of building type — in this case a luxury hotel,” Mr. Feldman said. “They haven’t kept up their end of the contract. It’s a shell of a building that the county says isn’t safe.”

Perini responded in court that it was the fault of the designers and not the builders and that the problems could be fixed without tearing down the building. A lawyer for Perini did not respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.

The problem was spotted by building inspectors who reported that metal rods designed to provide structure support for concrete — rebars — were incorrectly placed or missing and that the building would not be able to handle its own weight. The engineers warned that the Harmon could collapse in some sort of cataclysmic event. (Las Vegas is prone to earthquakes.)

William Robinson, a professor of economics at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, said that he doubted that MGM would want to rebuild the hotel, noting the troubled financial history of CityCenter and its struggles in filling the rooms in the other hotels. Even before this legal battle, MGM had announced that it was abandoning plans to put 200 condominiums on what would have been the Harmon’s top floors.

“MGM has tried to cut back on the whole project,” Mr. Robinson said. “If you are a conspiracy theorist, you think they are just looking for a way to get out of it.”

“Are they going to replace it with something else?” he asked. “Are they going to replace it with a different facility? That will tell us what’s really going on: it’s a fine location.”

Mr. Vassiliadis, one of the Strip’s most energetic boosters, said he would be surprised if MGM, assuming it succeeds in demolishing the building, replaces it with another hotel.

“Vegas used to have the mentality of ‘Build it and they will come’ — and they did,” he said. “I used to freak out every time they put up another 5,000 rooms, but sure enough they filled them.

“But the last four or five years showed our dependence on the national economy: we always knew it, but this is the first time it really hit us,” he said. “I’m guessing there will be a lot more measurement on the part of everyone going forward.”

MGM has given no hint of what may happen with the property, though Mr. Feldman, in the interview, repeatedly described it as a choice location for a hotel.

“The proximity of that building to the Strip is really amazing,” he said. “And when you are up in it — and only a handful of people have been up in it — the relationship of those rooms to the Strip, the energy, is remarkable. I am being personal about this, but I actually think it would have been amazing.”
512 2013-01-23 GAZA — Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia visited the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip on Tuesday on what he called a humanitarian mission but Hamas portrayed as a defiant stand against Israeli restrictions on Gaza.

“This is an Islamic declaration for breaking the Israeli siege on Gaza,” said Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of Hamas, the Islamic movement, who received the Malaysian premier, his wife and his foreign minister at the Rafah crossing point between Gaza and Egypt. Although the restrictions have been eased recently, most exports from Gaza are still banned.

The visit came as Israelis headed to polling stations for parliamentary elections. Mr. Haniya said he considered Mr. Najib’s visit “a Palestinian, Arab and Islamic response” to a visit on Tuesday by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to the Western Wall in Jerusalem.

Mr. Haniya said the Western Wall, known to Muslims as Al Buraq, was “an Arab and Islamic wall,” and added, “Jerusalem is Islamic.”

In his five-hour visit, Mr. Najib laid the cornerstone of an industrial college his country was financing and signed an agreement with the Hamas government to rebuild the prime minister’s office, which Israel destroyed in November during a bloody conflict with Hamas.
513 2013-01-23 On Thursday, Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat whom Mr. Obama selected to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state, is expected to breeze through his hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which he still leads.

Mr. Hagel is still likely to face tough questioning from the Senate Armed Services Committee. He and Mr. McCain, once close friends with the shared experience of being Vietnam veterans, became estranged because of differences over the Iraq war and how to deal with Iran. Mr. McCain left little doubt that he raised those issues in their meeting and would do so again during the committee’s hearing.

But White House officials say they are increasingly sanguine that Mr. Hagel will prevail. Democratic senators have largely fallen into line since he won the blessing of Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the most influential Jewish member of the Senate.

Mr. Schumer’s endorsement was viewed as crucial by the White House because it allayed concerns among Democrats about Mr. Hagel’s positions on Israel and his use of the phrase “Jewish lobby” to refer to pro-Israel lobbying groups. On Friday, Mr. Hagel met with several Jewish groups, including the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and the Anti-Defamation League, to try to ease their concerns.

Privately, administration officials figure that Mr. Hagel could get as many as 60 votes, a threshold that would allow him to overcome a filibuster. Even if the vote ends up shy of 60, Congressional aides said, it is not clear that Republicans will try to block his confirmation, especially if Mr. McCain does not stake out a strong position against him.

When Mr. Obama signed papers formally nominating Mr. Hagel, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Brennan after his Inaugural Address on Monday, he said, “I’m sending a few nominations up, which I know will be handled with great dispatch.” Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. chuckled softly, as Republican Congressional leaders looked on silently.

In his recent meetings on Capitol Hill, officials said, Mr. Hagel has sounded a more hawkish tone on issues like American sanctions on Iran, about which he had once been skeptical.

“If he has answers for members who have concerns about his past statements,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who met with Mr. Hagel last week, “then I think the chances of his being confirmed will become fairly strong.”

Aside from his Senate meetings, Mr. Hagel has kept a low profile in recent days. He did not attend the inauguration or Mr. Biden’s swearing-in ceremony on Sunday, despite having a seat reserved for him (a logistical mix-up, an official said, since he had decided to stay home to prepare for his confirmation).

With Mr. Hagel’s prospects improving, some analysts say the nominee to watch is Mr. Brennan, whom Mr. Obama has chosen as a permanent replacement for David H. Petraeus at the C.I.A., who resigned in November after admitting to an extramarital affair.

Shortly after Mr. Brennan’s nomination was announced, he began encountering resistance from Republicans concerned by what they said were national security leaks after the raid that killed Osama bin Laden.

Now, though, Mr. Brennan is facing questions from Democrats over the use of drone strikes and the killing of American citizens in counterterrorism operations — decisions in which he was deeply immersed as the counterterrorism adviser in the White House.

Last week, Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, a Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, wrote to Mr. Brennan, demanding that lawmakers be allowed to review the Justice Department’s legal opinion on assassinations, including that of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born cleric who was killed in a drone strike in Yemen in 2011.

The White House has fought to keep these opinions secret. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, has also called on the administration to release the legal opinion in the Awlaki case. She is likely to raise it in Mr. Brennan’s confirmation hearing, which is scheduled for Feb. 7.

The only nominee who seems likely to have a trouble-free experience is Mr. Kerry. Unlike Mr. Hagel, Mr. Kerry was a visible presence at the Capitol on Monday, shaking hands with Mr. Obama after his speech and chatting later with former President Bill Clinton.

Mr. Kerry’s hearing, in fact, may seem anticlimactic, coming the day after Mrs. Clinton’s long-awaited Congressional testimony on the deadly attack on the American Mission in Benghazi, Libya. She will testify on Wednesday before both the Senate and House.

Mr. McCain, perhaps trying to inject some drama into Mr. Kerry’s hearing, joked Tuesday that the Senate would subject him to “waterboarding” to get the truth out of him.
514 2013-01-23 Revenue climbed to $30.05 billion, a 5.7 percent increase from a year ago, and slightly higher than estimates.

Verizon said its wireless business, a joint venture with Vodafone of Britain, had a strong quarter. It sold 9.8 million smartphones, compared with 7.7 million in the same quarter a year ago, and added 2.1 million contract subscribers, the most valuable type of customer, versus 1.2 million a year ago.

The iPhone was Verizon’s top-selling smartphone in the quarter, with 6.2 million sales — almost half of which were the iPhone 5, the latest model of the phone. The strong number suggests that demand for Apple’s smartphone is not weakening, despite previous reports that Apple had reduced orders for iPhone parts because sales were slower than expected.

Android phones made up a majority of Verizon’s remaining smartphone sales. Verizon said sales of Windows phones had steady but slow growth.

Chetan Sharma, an independent mobile analyst who does consulting for carriers, said it was impressive that Verizon Wireless continued to post strong phone sales while expanding its customer base. Its phone plans are generally more expensive than the competition’s, and growth of the business shows that customers have faith in Verizon’s network technology, Mr. Sharma said.

Verizon is leading the race to build out its fourth-generation network, called LTE, which is faster and more efficient than its predecessor. The company has deployed LTE in 476 cities; AT&T, the second-biggest American carrier, is second with 135 cities.

“The investment they’ve made in the network is showing,” Mr. Sharma said. “When consumers think of changing operators or upgrading, they’re choosing Verizon because of what they’ve experienced, as well as what they’ve heard about the network in terms of reliability across the country.”

This year is shaping up to be another strong one for Verizon. Its new shared data plans, which allow customers to pay for one pool of data and share it across multiple smartphones, tablets and laptops, are helping it bring in more money from subscribers over all. Average monthly revenue from each account grew 6.6 percent to $146.80 in the fourth quarter. Already, 23 percent of Verizon’s accounts are on shared data plans.

The faster the network, the faster people will use their data allowance and eventually buy more. On top of that, data is getting cheaper for Verizon to deliver. The company says the 4G LTE network is five times more efficient than its predecessor, 3G. That means the more people who buy devices that connect to the newer network, like the iPhone 5, the more money the company will eventually gain.

“As more customers choose 4G LTE smartphones and devices, we expect the continued migration of data traffic from 3G to our lower-cost 4G LTE network will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency in 2013 and beyond,” Mr. Shammo said in the earnings call.

This month, Research in Motion is expected to release its BlackBerry 10 smartphones. Mr. Shammo said Verizon was hopeful that the new phones would be successful.

“We have very loyal BlackBerry users in our base, and we will see how that goes,” he said. “I think more choice for our customers is better for us and for the consumer and for competition.”
515 2013-01-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
516 2013-01-24 The Supreme Court has agreed to consider an adoption case involving a South Carolina couple who were ordered to turn over a 2-year-old girl they had cared for since birth to her biological father, a member of the Cherokee Nation, whom she had never met. While South Carolina law says the girl, Veronica, should stay with the adoptive parents, federal law, under the Indian Child Welfare Act, says tribal authorities should decide the case.

Should the adoption of American Indian children receive special consideration, or is it too focused on race? Kevin Noble Maillard, a professor of law at Syracuse University and a member of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma, organized this discussion.
517 2013-01-24 The Toyota Prius C tops the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy's list of greenest cars....
518 2013-01-24 A look back at TimesOpen 2012: some changes we made in our approach, some risks we took, and how they worked out....
519 2013-01-24 Rangers forward Arron Asham, who missed Wednesday's game against the Bruins with a groin pull, said he was "day to day" but expected to return Saturday against Toronto at the Garden....
520 2013-01-24 Jill E. Sommers, a Republican regulator overseeing the investigation into MF Global's collapse, has resigned her post at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
521 2013-01-24 A meeting held in Manhattan came amid efforts to win passage of legislation this year to set up a system of public financing for state candidates....
522 2013-01-24 The producers of "Manilow on Broadway" have canceled the opening three performances of Barry Manilow's Broadway show, rescheduling them for Feb.28-March 2....
523 2013-01-24 A guest writer, Carol Jago, gives a brief history of inaugural poetry, then suggests discussion questions for Richard Blanco’s “One Today,” as well as activities for inaugural and occasional poetry in general....
524 2013-01-24 TOKYO — The Japanese investigation into a battery that overheated and prompted the emergency landing of a Boeing 787 airliner last week has found no evidence that the battery was overcharged, a top aviation safety official said Wednesday, casting doubts on one recent explanation put forward by Japanese investigators and clouding the U.S. aircraft maker’s efforts to get its planes back in the air.

Regulators around the world have grounded the advanced 787, called the Dreamliner, after a battery malfunction and smoke caused pilots aboard an All Nippon Airways flight to make an emergency landing last week, and a similar battery aboard a parked 787 operated by Japan Airlines ignited at Logan Airport in Boston on Jan. 7.

Japanese investigators who retrieved the charred and disfigured battery pack from the All Nippon plane initially suspected overcharging, a dangerous condition where a battery is charged beyond its electrical capacity and becomes susceptible to overheating and fire. Experts in lithium-ion batteries — the type under investigation on the Dreamliner — have suggested that the batteries may have been charged too quickly, pointing to charging issues rather than problems with the batteries themselves.

But data retrieved from the All Nippon jet suggested that the battery had not been charged beyond its maximum design voltage, 32 volts, Norihiro Goto, chairman of the Japanese Transport Safety Board, told reporters Wednesday. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration announced similar findings Sunday from its investigation into the lithium-ion battery that caught fire in Boston.

Mr. Goto said that readings aboard the All Nippon flight showed the battery’s voltage stayed relatively stable at 31 volts, just under the maximum voltage, until pilots detected a strange smell in the cockpit about 15 minutes after takeoff. The data showed a sudden, unexplained drop in the battery’s voltage after that, Mr. Goto said.
525 2013-01-24 The Times's Nick Wingfield talks about Apple's detrimental legacy of success....
526 2013-01-24 The American statesman made clear that while Davos Man and Woman are concerned about global economic gyrations, political problems most threaten the world....
527 2013-01-24 Thursday in Science, we’re reading about carb-loving canines, men who hide birth control pills, frogs at risk, a mumps comeback and a deformed dolphin adopted by whales. Check out these and other science headlines from around the Web.

Deformed Dolphin Swims With Whales: A bottlenose dolphin with a spinal deformity has been taken under the fins of a group of sperm whales, reports National Geographic. For eight days scientists observed the dolphin traveling and playing with a group of adult whales and their calves about 1,000 miles off the coast of Lisbon. Interaction between the species is uncommon.

Bowl Full of Jelly: A tiny amount of a new polymer can turn an Olympic-sized swimming pool into a pool of jelly, reports Popular Science. Scientists revealed the properties of the polyisocyanide polymer in the journal Nature. Most gels form upon cooling – like Jell-O – but this one forms globs when it is heated. Apparently that opens the door to some interesting new applications.

Dogs Like Carbs: A dog’s willingness to eat carbs (like a dog biscuit), instead of your hand, helps explain how its ancestors evolved from wolves to house pets, reports The Washington Post. A team of Swedish researchers compared the genomes of wolves and dogs and their findings support the hypothesis that dogs evolved from wolves who could subsist on human food.

Harvard Not Planning to Clone Neanderthals: A theoretical conversation about cloning prompted widespread and inaccurate speculation that a Harvard scientist was planning to clone a Neanderthal baby, reports Reuters. Scientists say the episode highlights the lack of scientific literacy, at least among bloggers and tabloid newspaper writers.

New Cases of Gulf War Syndrome: Veterans of recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan appear to be suffering a similar set of symptoms to Gulf War illness, first diagnosed in veterans of the 1991 Gulf War, reports USA Today. The finding comes from a new Institute of Medicine report.
528 2013-01-24 The Times's Nick Wingfield talks about Apple's detrimental legacy of success.
529 2013-01-24 The Rockwell Group has unveiled its designs for the interior of the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, a museum and research center scheduled to open in Atlanta in 2014....
530 2013-01-24 Bengali writer Mahasweta Devi on trouble-making and the mischievous desire to live again....
531 2013-01-24 Mr. Blinder, a Princeton University economist and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, describes his new book, “After the Music Stopped.”...
532 2013-01-24 Revised rules for depression diagnoses, Apple's falling stock, tech tools for new parents and other consumer news from the last 24 hours in The Times and on our Web site....
533 2013-01-24 Also, Apple disappoints and some longtime employees are laid off at Rolling Stone....
534 2013-01-24 Because of Apple's great success in recent years, many investors have come to expect nothing short of perfection from it. And while it is still widely considered the most innovative company in the technology world, Apple is facing a range of chall...
535 2013-01-24 Republican governors in a range of states are starting to act aggressively on taxes, setting up limited but politically ambitious and potentially telling experiments in what might be possible nationwide....
536 2013-01-24 The DSM 5, to be published in May, has generated an unusual amount of heat. Two changes, in particular, could have considerable impact on older people and their families....
537 2013-01-24 A structure billed as the first stand-alone building designed for jazz in this country drew a host of noted performers on opening night....
538 2013-01-24 MILAN (AP) — Two-time Olympic luge champion Armin Zoeggeler will not compete in the world championships next month so he can fully recover from injuries for the 2014 Sochi Winter Games.

The Italian veteran, who was third at a World Cup on Saturday, has been dealing with shoulder and neck problems.

“I’m much more interested in getting experience on the Olympic track in Sochi and getting to top form to get top results again,” he said. “I have every intention of getting back to my best form and avoiding suffering from even worse pain in the future.”

The 39-year-old, who won Olympic gold at the games in 2002 and 2006, has 16 world championship medals — including six individual golds — and is considered one of the greatest in the sport.
539 2013-01-24 A book about the couple, “A Very Different Love Story,” by Berry Stainback, was published in 1976. More recently, the Pugaches were the subject of a widely seen documentary, “Crazy Love.”

Part cautionary tale, part psychological study, part riveting disaster narrative, the film, directed by Dan Klores, was released in 2007 to favorable, if somewhat astonished, notices.

In the decades after their marriage, the Pugaches seemed hungry for limelight. Although reporters who visited their home in the Rego Park section of Queens wrote often of their unremitting bickering, the couple just as often appeared in the newspapers or on television to declare their mutual devotion.

They received renewed attention in 1997, when Mr. Pugach, known as Burt, went on trial in Queens on charges that he had sexually abused a woman and threatened to kill her.

At the trial, at which Mr. Pugach represented himself, Mrs. Pugach testified on his behalf, telling him in open court, “You’re a wonderful, caring husband.” The alleged victim in the case was Mr. Pugach’s mistress of five years.

Mr. Pugach, who was convicted of only a single count — harassment in the second degree — of the 11 with which he was charged in that case, was sentenced to 15 days in jail.

“We loved each other more than any other couple could have,” Mr. Pugach, intermittently weeping, said of his wife in a discursive telephone interview on Wednesday. He added, “Ours was a storybook romance.”

But to judge from the news accounts then and now, the story in question was “Beauty and the Beast.” Or, more precisely, it was that story’s unseen second act — the one in which the title union has degenerated into long, grinding yet strangely indissoluble banality.

Linda Eleanor Riss was born in the Bronx on Feb. 23, 1937. Her parents divorced when she was very young, and she was reared by her mother, her grandmother and an aunt.

She graduated from James Monroe High School in the Bronx; when she met Mr. Pugach, who specialized in negligence law, she was working as a secretary at an air-conditioner dealership on Tremont Avenue there.

After breaking off her affair with Mr. Pugach, Miss Riss became engaged to another man.

The attack, in June 1959, scarred her face and left her almost completely blind; over time, she lost what sight remained. To the end of Mrs. Pugach’s life, her face was framed by large dark glasses.

After the attack, Mr. Pugach appeared determined to continue their relationship. He telephoned her to suggest that they reconcile and later wrote her a torrent of letters from prison.

“At one point,” The Times reported in 1959, “he was said to have promised, ‘I’ll get you a Seeing Eye dog for Christmas.’ ”

“She was a sheltered, naïve young girl,” Mr. Klores, the filmmaker, said in an interview on Wednesday. “Her identity was centered around her physical beauty. When she had this romance with this older man — this obsessive relationship — he worshiped her for that physical beauty. And when that was taken from her, the scars weren’t merely on the outside.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Pugach, 85, denied having ordered the use of lye.

“I asked one guy to find someone who would beat her up, to try and get her back,” he said. “I didn’t ask anybody to throw lye at her.”

Testifying at Mr. Pugach’s trial in May 1961, Miss Riss said he had told her, “If I can’t have you, no one else will, and when I get finished with you, no one else will want you.”

There were ultimately two trials connected with the attack, and even by the standards of high-profile proceedings, they were spectacular. Mr. Pugach was declared insane three separate times, only to have the decisions reversed at his behest.

On another occasion, about to start the day’s proceedings, Mr. Pugach removed a lens from his eyeglasses and slashed his wrists, crying: “Linda, I need you. Linda, I love you. Linda, I want you.”

The wounds were not serious, and the trial continued.

Convicted in July 1961 for his role in the attack, Mr. Pugach was eventually sentenced to 15 to 30 years in state prison.

The case was ultimately appealed to the United States Supreme Court on the grounds that wiretap evidence against Mr. Pugach had been obtained illegally; the court ruled against him, 7 to 2.

Mr. Pugach was paroled from the Attica Correctional Facility in March 1974, after serving 14 years for his role in the attack and for an earlier conviction on related charges.

By the time he got out, his wife had divorced him. (He had also been disbarred; afterward, he worked as a paralegal.)

In November, after Mr. Pugach had gone on television several times to propose to Miss Riss, they were married.

In later years, Mr. Klores said, the couple went to movies and watched television, with Mr. Pugach narrating the action for his wife. Mrs. Pugach knitted and sewed, and did volunteer work with the blind. It was all quite unremarkable, apart from the singular tie that bound them.

Even after one reads accounts of the case, and even after one sees Mr. Klores’s film, the precise nature of that tie remains tantalizingly elusive. In interviews, Mrs. Pugach tended to characterize it with platitudes that revealed little.

Asked to define it on Wednesday, Mr. Klores, who spent three years with the couple during the making of his film, invoked Mrs. Pugach’s ever-present sunglasses in connection with a romance that she had after the attack, while Mr. Pugach was in prison.

“She always wore those sunglasses, even with me,” Mr. Klores said. “I asked her to take them off at the end of filming — she wouldn’t do it. When she had a serious romance as a blind woman, she did take off those glasses, and the suitor ran away. So who, in her mind, was the one man that only saw her as the beauty that she was?”

“I don’t use the word ‘guilt,’ ” Mr. Klores added, striving to put his finger on what had moved the couple to marry. “But I’m not using the word ‘love.’ ”
540 2013-01-24 First, there were threats, delivered in phone calls or through intermediaries: He would seek to dissolve their fledgling coalition by pressuring his fellow Democrats to reunite; pummel recalcitrant Republican senators for months with a seven-figure advertising blitz backed by national groups like the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence; and campaign on Long Island, where 9 of the 30 Republican senators live, and across the state.

Then, there was the cajoling. Guns, he told the Republicans, were not the issue for them to take a stand on. He shared with them his internal polling data, which showed popular support for a tighter ban on assault weapons, even among gun owners.

There is a dispute over what exactly Mr. Cuomo then said to senior Republicans. A person with direct knowledge of the exchanges quoted Mr. Cuomo as saying: “You think your record is good the last two cycles? Maybe you should listen to me? Maybe I should be your consultant!”

A senior Cuomo administration official denied that such statements had been made or that there was any contentiousness between the Democratic governor, seeking new gun laws, and the Republican Senate leadership, leery of such laws. But clearly, there was aggressive talk.

“He wanted to get this done, and he was push, push, push,” said State Senator Thomas W. Libous of Binghamton, the chamber’s second-ranking Republican and the governor’s closest ally in the Republican caucus.

“Some people don’t know how to take that,” Mr. Libous added. “I understand; sometimes I can be passionate too. Sometimes, when we want something, we push hard for it. The governor is trying to make his mark.”

Mr. Cuomo had been a longtime supporter of gun control, and after the mass shooting at a movie theater in Aurora, Colo., last summer, he instructed his aides to begin developing new gun control proposals. But he had done little publicly, other than making an occasional comment at a news conference, until Newtown.

“I think for me, like for people all across this country, that was it,” the governor said in an interview last week. “You said, ‘Enough.’ That was it. It’s not an intellectual response; it was more emotional, visceral. Just, it was enough.”

Mr. Cuomo, who has three teenage daughters, said he could not help but think of them.

“Anyone who has a child remembers the first day they dropped the child off at school and they remember that feeling in the pit of their stomach when they were driving away, that little fear that they felt in their spine that said, ‘You know, I’m leaving my child; God forbid something were to happen,’ ” he recalled. “This said you were right to have that anxiety, because your nightmare actually came true.”

The governor’s aides worked with several advocacy groups, including the Brady Campaign in Washington, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence and the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence in San Francisco, to develop a package of measures that would be comprehensive but also politically achievable. They looked to other states; a provision in the new law to require mental health professionals to report possibly violent patients was similar to a recommendation by a task force created last year by Gov. Martin O’Malley and state legislators in Maryland.

For a time, Mr. Cuomo and his team were so eager to act that they contemplated calling the Legislature into special session in December. By the time a few dozen lawmakers had assembled in Albany the week before Christmas for an economic development meeting, negotiations were moving so rapidly that the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, instructed his members not to leave the capital until they had called his office — just in case a gun control deal was ready.

The Assembly was clearly ready to support new gun control, so Mr. Cuomo focused his lobbying on the Senate, where the outcome was less certain.

A few days after the shooting, the Senate Democrats had chosen a new leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins of Westchester County. Mr. Cuomo invited her to visit. When she arrived, he offered his congratulations and then turned to gun control. By the end of the session, Senator Stewart-Cousins had pledged that all 26 members of her caucus would support his effort.

Mr. Cuomo believed he could get the votes to pass a gun control measure in the Senate, but any doubt was erased by a Dec. 24 ambush in Webster, near Rochester, in which a lone gunman set fire to a car and his house, then killed two firefighters who responded.

“To the extent the Legislature needed any reinforcement, there was no question after Webster,” Mr. Cuomo said.

He courted a newly elected senator, Simcha Felder, a Democrat from Brooklyn who had decided to align himself with the Republican caucus. And he sat down with the five Democrats whose Independent Democratic Conference had struck a power-sharing agreement with the Senate Republicans; afterward, their leader, Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat, told reporters he was squarely behind the governor’s effort.

Even with the votes, Mr. Cuomo still had to ensure that the Senate Republican leader, Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, would not try to prevent the bill from coming to the floor. Senator Skelos and his aides wanted to impose stiffer penalties on the use of illegal guns; extend and expand Kendra’s Law, which empowers judges to order mentally ill patients to receive outpatient treatment; and soften some of the new provisions restricting assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.

Mr. Cuomo was open to the first two of those requests, and he also did not push the Legislature to approve microstamping, a controversial form of ballistics identification, which he had supported but which had been met with resistance by Republicans. In an effort to further mollify their conference, the Senate Republican leadership distributed to their members a one-page handout listing 15 “rejected Democrat proposals,” crediting themselves with rebuffing, among other things, a suggestion to confiscate guns now deemed assault weapons and limit gun purchases to one per month. “Can buy unlimited number of guns,” the senators were reassured.

The weekend after the Jan. 9 State of the State address, Mr. Cuomo and his allies received some help: A poll by Newsday and Siena College found that more than 7 in 10 residents on Long Island supported an expanded ban on assault weapons. Recalling the Newsday poll, Speaker Silver said, “I think it may have sealed it.”

On the first full day of the Legislative session, the Senate Republicans met behind closed doors for several hours to discuss the measure, while gun-rights activists tried, futilely, to put the brakes on a deal. The head of the state’s National Rifle Association affiliate, Thomas H. King, showed up at the office of the Senate Republicans; Mr. Skelos, he said later, would not see him.

Around 9 p.m., Senator Gregory R. Ball of Putnam County, a gun-rights advocate and avid trap shooter, emerged from the Republicans’ private meeting with a defeated look. “I don’t think any lives will be saved today,” he said. “The only life that may have been helped is the political life of Andrew Cuomo running for president.”

Later, on his way to the floor, Mr. Skelos acknowledged that the gun issue was “difficult for many to deal with,” but he described the final bill as “well balanced.” He voted for it, as did all of his Long Island colleagues in the Senate who were present.
541 2013-01-24 GO ON, ADMIT IT. What fashion-conscious person hasn’t fantasized at some point in the last 70-some years of finding themselves on the International Best-Dressed List?

Oh, you can scoff and say it’s just a publicity stunt. Actually, that’s exactly what it was when Eleanor Lambert dreamed it up to promote American designers during World War II. And it still is, as a popular feature that helps sell issues of Vanity Fair ever since the magazine took stewardship of the list a decade ago.

But budding style icons, actresses, fashion editors, first ladies, minor royals and quasi-socialites still angle to be recognized for their talents at getting dressed every day. And the fights between the judges, whose identities are sort of a secret, are hysterical. (André Leon Talley once recalled proposing the singer Maxwell for the list and being asked if he were the heir to the coffee fortune.)

The thing is, today, as Graydon Carter, the editor of Vanity Fair noted in his office on Tuesday, there aren’t that many fashion originals left, not since actresses became beholden to stylists and socialites to designers. So the magazine is opening up the list to you, dear reader.

Beginning this week, anyone can upload pictures to Vanity Fair online (details at vf.com/bestdressed) to be considered for inclusion in a weekly slide show and a monthly prize from sponsors like Giorgio Armani, Neiman Marcus and Clinique. And then two winners — one man and one woman — will be included in the ultimate 2013 list, published in the September issue. It could be anyone.

“People who come into the list in this way will probably have more interesting looks than those who come the traditional way,” Mr. Carter said.
542 2013-01-24 “Apple has really been able to invent whole new markets,” said John Gallaugher, an associate professor at ’s Carroll School of Management. “That’s where it differs from companies like . I don’t think the mojo of this team has evaporated.”

In a conference call with analysts, , Apple’s chief executive, said the company’s pipeline of new products was “chock-full.”

“We feel great about what we have in store,” he said, without adding details.

In the meantime, though, the love affair that investors once had with Apple is clearly waning.

“There’s nothing that can help the stock from sliding now,” said Mark Moskowitz, an analyst at Securities, who said Apple’s holiday sales met his own forecasts, even though they missed others’ predictions.

For years, Apple has offered an unusual alchemy: it was not only a large, highly profitable tech company, but one with the rapid growth rate of a start-up. It pulled this off under the leadership of , its former chief executive, who died in late 2011. He had a startling knack for finding new multibillion-dollar opportunities for Apple with the iPod, and , but his death has accentuated concerns about the company’s prospects.

A big part of Apple’s challenge is that it is now so large that it seems unrealistic, mathematically, for the company to continue finding new pots of gold big enough to maintain its growth. In a recent research report, A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research, calculated that were Apple to grow for the next five years at the same rate as the last five years, its revenue would be $1.2 trillion, or about the size of ’s gross domestic product.

One continuing concern is that the iPhone, which accounts for over half of Apple’s revenue, could be smothered by smartphones running Google’s Android operating system, which accounts for three out of every four handsets shipped globally.

But Apple continues to take an outsize portion of the profits in the smartphone business, and in the the company actually increased its share of the smartphone market over the holiday quarter, rising to 51.2 percent from 44.9 percent a year earlier, according to a study released this week by Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.

On Wednesday, Apple did not appear to provide a strong enough reason for investors to warm to it again. It said its profits were flat because of higher manufacturing costs, even as revenue rose 18 percent.

Apple’s net income for its fiscal first quarter ending Dec. 29 was $13.1 billion, or $13.81 a share, flat compared with $13.1 billion, or $13.87 a share, in the same period a year earlier. Revenue was $54.5 billion, up from $46.33 billion a year ago. Those results compared to the average estimates of $13.44 a share earnings and revenue of $54.73 billion from analysts surveyed by .

Apple’s growth in the quarter looked anemic compared with the huge numbers it used to deliver. For the holiday quarter of 2011, in contrast, its revenue jumped 73 percent and its profit soared 118 percent.

In its financial forecasts for the current quarter, Apple provided numbers that suggest a decline of roughly 20 percent in earnings a share, according to Mr. Sacconaghi’s calculations.

A number of analysts say they still believe the company’s good times are not over. “Sentiment has turned super-pessimistic on Apple, where they’ve gone from being able to do no wrong to suddenly being able to do no right,” said Rob Cihra, an analyst at . “I tend to think the company’s momentum is a heck of a lot more solid than people are concerned about.”

One factor that hurt comparisons between Apple’s most recent holiday quarter and the previous one was that its 2012 quarter was a week shorter.

Headed into the holiday quarter, analysts were worried about Apple’s profit margins, which the company had warned would decline as a result of a near total overhaul of the company’s product line.

While new products are routine for a company like Apple, it said the number of devices it released around the holidays, like the iPhone 5, iPad Mini and new Mac computers, was unusual.

But negative sentiment has further hardened amid reports that Apple had cut orders for components with a supplier, potentially suggesting weak demand for the iPhone.

Mr. Cook cautioned that investors shouldn’t place too much significance on such reports because Apple often gets its parts from multiple sources.
543 2013-01-24 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistan’s top judge on Wednesday ordered a judicial investigation into the death of a state prosecutor who had been building corruption charges against the prime minister.

The prosecutor, Kamran Faisal, was found dead on Friday at his government lodgings in Islamabad, hanging from the ceiling. Although the initial autopsy determined that Mr. Faisal had committed suicide, his family and some colleagues said they suspected foul play.

A media storm erupted after it emerged that Mr. Faisal had been one of several prosecutors investigating accusations that Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf had taken kickbacks during his tenure as minister for water and power between 2008 and 2011.

On Wednesday, the chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who last week ordered the arrest of Mr. Ashraf over corruption accusations, entered the fray in a characteristically forceful manner. In ordering the inquiry, Mr. Chaudhry described Mr. Faisal’s death as “shocking” and added his voice to fears that the official investigation could be compromised by powerful politicians.

Citing statements submitted to the court by Mr. Faisal’s relatives, Chief Justice Chaudhry said they were “not expecting free, fair and honest investigation because of the involvement of highly influential political and executive authorities of the country.”
544 2013-01-24 Still, the agency approved the technology on the assumption that Boeing could make the batteries work and that computer controls could prevent batteries from overcharging or overheating. The agency also specified that any fire or toxic leak be contained and not damage any surrounding electrical systems.

At the same time, the agency brushed off concerns raised in 2006 and 2007 by the Air Line Pilots Association that a fire in flight would be difficult to extinguish and that flight crews should be given extra training.

“We have concluded that providing a means for controlling or extinguishing a fire — such as stopping the flow of fluids, shutting down equipment, or fireproof equipment” was an “adequate alternative to requiring the flight or cabin crew to use extinguishing agents,” the agency said in its 2006 decision about the Airbus A380.

Experts said that regardless of the cause of the 787’s problems, the charred remains of the battery that caught fire earlier this month in a plane in Boston raised the question of whether the safeguards functioned properly.

On Wednesday, the National Transportation Safety Board, which is investigating the battery fire in Boston, said that all eight cells in the battery had sustained “varying degrees of thermal damage.” Six of them have been scanned and disassembled for further examination.

Many battery experts said they viewed Boeing’s decision to use lithium-ion batteries as a reasonable one and pointed out that lithium-ion batteries had also been used in expensive space satellites since around 2000 without serious problems. They said that track record would have added to the confidence Boeing and federal regulators had about using them in commercial airliners.

Jay F. Whitacre, an associate professor of engineering at Carnegie Mellon University, said GS Yuasa, the Japanese company that built the 787 batteries, told the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in a 2008 presentation that it had already supplied batteries for six satellites and had contracts for 50 more. GS Yuasa also said that its satellite batteries had never had a shorting incident in more than 10 years of production.

“That’s pretty compelling,” Professor Whitacre said. “If I had all that data and saw that they were making batteries for 50 more satellites, I’d say that was a reasonable risk to take. My sense is that Boeing did a fairly decent job of picking the right company.”

But another battery expert, Donald Sadoway, a materials chemistry professor at M.I.T., disagreed. He said that sticking with an older type of battery instead of the lighter lithium battery would not have made a huge difference to the 787, adding about 40 pounds, or the equivalent of an extra suitcase per battery.

“So you will risk the plane for something that’s tantamount to one guy’s suitcase?” Mr. Sadoway said. “Who’s making the calculation here? It’s absurd. It doesn’t add up.”

With plane makers pushing the envelope on new technology, safety experts have questioned whether federal regulators had the expertise or the manpower to properly oversee those developments.

Michael P. Huerta, the F.A.A.’s administrator, on Wednesday defended his agency’s handling of the process as well as its expertise to assess new technology in airplanes. The agency, he said, also has the ability to call in outside experts, if needed. He added that federal regulators would not lift the 787’s grounding order until they had fully reviewed its critical systems and understood why the batteries had failed.

“Aviation from its very beginning has stretched technological boundaries,” Mr. Huerta told reporters. “For more than five decades, the F.A.A. has compiled a proven track record of safely introducing new technology and new aircraft.”

He added, “We have the ability to establish rigorous safety standards and to make sure that aircraft meet them.”

Lithium-ion batteries have many advantages over traditional batteries. They are lighter, can be recharged faster and more often, and provide substantially more power than other batteries of the same size.

For that reason, lithium-ion cells have become the norm in rechargeable consumer electronics. But in 2006, manufacturing defects in some batteries that caused them to catch fire led computer makers to recall nearly 10 million laptops

Safety regulators, however, were more worried about the instances when the batteries caught fire in the cargo hold of an aircraft, or while being carried by passengers. Federal authorities in 2004 prohibited nonrechargeable lithium-ion batteries from being transported aboard passenger planes as cargo. That ruling was reinforced in August 2007, just two months before the Boeing request was approved.

There were 132 safety problems involving batteries carried by passengers or in cargo holds from March 1991 to October 2012, according to the F.A.A.

Professor Whitacre of Carnegie Mellon said that even though laptop battery packs were banned as loose cargo, that did not mean that lithium-ion batteries could not be used safely when integrated into the plane’s electrical system with computerized controls and other measures.

F.A.A. officials said they oversaw Boeing’s laboratory tests of the new batteries. Boeing has said that its military business had begun a program to select lithium-ion batteries for its satellites in 2003 and that its engineers felt they understood the potential hazards.

Mike Sinnett, Boeing’s top engineer on the 787 program, said recently that the company had built a system with multiple layers of protection that it thought would keep the batteries from overheating and contain any problem.

The computerized controls are supposed to shut down the battery if it develops a problem, and the battery is supposed to keep a short in any one of its eight cells from spreading to the others. If any fumes or flames escape, Boeing said, the pressurized air system will help keep smoke out of the cabin and vent it outside.

But neither the F.A.A. nor Boeing made any changes with the 787 when Cessna replaced the lithium-ion batteries on its CJ4 business jet with nickel-cadmium ones after a battery fire in October 2011, three weeks before the first 787 made its inaugural airline flight.

“It is reasonable to understand their risk and put in engineering design to make up for these risks,” said Jeffrey P. Chamberlain, a battery expert at the Argonne National Laboratory. “I will remind you that the wings are full of jet fuel. And the same thing for the car you drive all day. In general, when you adopt a new technology, is it good to account for risk. The reverse would be terrifying.”
545 2013-01-24 BEIJING — Family members of one of China’s most prominent dissidents, Gao Zhisheng, visited him in a prison in the western region of Xinjiang this month, according to Mr. Gao’s older brother and a human rights advocacy group. The visit was the first confirmation in nine months that Mr. Gao was still alive.

The group, Human Rights in China, based in New York, said in a statement late on Tuesday that Mr. Gao’s younger brother and his father-in-law visited him on Jan. 12, citing Mr. Gao’s wife. The older brother, Gao Zhiyi, confirmed the visit when reached by telephone on Wednesday, but said he had no further details because the younger brother had not yet returned to the family’s hometown in Shaanxi Province.

Foreign human rights advocates say they fear for Mr. Gao’s life because there is no word on his well-being or whereabouts for long stretches of time. Foreign governments have condemned China for its harsh treatment of Mr. Gao over the years.

The previous family visit also took place at the prison in Xinjiang, called Shaya, on March 24, 2012. Human Rights in China said there was no information from the latest visit on a possible release date for Mr. Gao. During that visit, the group said, “Mr. Gao’s mind seemed clear, and he spoke normally.”

It said the authorities told the younger brother not to talk with Mr. Gao about his case or prison conditions. The two visitors were also barred from discussing Mr. Gao’s wife, Geng He, and two children, who fled to the United States in 2009 with the help of a Christian organization that spirited them to Thailand from China.

The younger brother was also told not to give any interviews to the news media after the visit. He asked when the family would next be permitted to see Mr. Gao and was told that the family had to “follow old ways,” according to the human rights group.
546 2013-01-24 “It’s a change in protocol, but now he’ll be expected to live up to it and stop being such a political busybody,” Mr. Yao said.

That may not come easily to Mr. Jiang, whose later career was marked by the flamboyant gestures of a politician who had grown to enjoy attention. He retired as party general secretary in November 2002, and stepped down from his final major post, chairman of the Central Military Commission, nearly two years later. Since then, he has used public appearances, books, poems and essays as reminders that he remained healthy and engaged enough to exert influence.

Mr. Jiang wielded heavy backstage influence in choosing the new leadership team under Mr. Xi that was appointed at the Communist Party’s 18th congress in November. The seven-member Politburo Standing Committee, which sits at the apex of party power, is now dominated by protégés and allies of Mr. Jiang, and short on officials close to Mr. Hu, the departing leader who succeeded Mr. Jiang.

And some argue that Mr. Jiang, while signaling that he is ready to step away from the political fray, is doing so in a way that does not exclude renewed efforts to exert influence. “I think that everyone was amazed that at 86 he still had the ability to achieve the influence that he wielded at the 18th Party Congress,” said Joseph Fewsmith, a specialist in Chinese politics at Boston University. “Having helped put in place the leadership that he wanted, it seems likely that he will now seek a lower profile.”

“After the 18th Party Congress, Comrade Jiang Zemin submitted a request to the party’s central leadership that in the future he be ranked alongside the other old comrades in the protocol ranking,” Xinhua reported on Wednesday. “This embodies the noble integrity and generous spirit of a Communist.”

Mr. Jiang’s step comes while the new leader, Mr. Xi, has been trying to consolidate his power and win public confidence through repeated vows to eradicate corruption and impose discipline on lax officials. It was a theme that Mr. Xi returned to on Tuesday, when he told central officials that he would take on both “flies” and “tigers” — wayward local officials and corrupt senior leaders — and that he would demand unflinching obedience to central directives.

An official with a state media organization said that when Mr. Xi vowed in early December to curb the perks and fanfare lavished on serving leaders, he remained deferential to Mr. Jiang and other retired leaders and stressed that the strictures did not apply to them.

“This was a way of showing respect to old comrades,” added the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing bans on disclosing internal party discussions.

An editor with another party media organization said Mr. Jiang’s protocol concession appeared intended to indicate “he won’t get involved in the arrangements for the 19th Party Congress, whether he’s dead or alive.” At the 19th congress, due in 2017, five of the seven members of the Politburo Standing Committee are likely to step down but Mr. Xi is expected to remain in power for five more years.

Mr. Jiang sees Mr. Xi as an ally, while Mr. Hu won the party’s top job a decade ago even though he was not Mr. Jiang’s choice. Mr. Hu has shown no appetite to linger in the political limelight.
547 2013-01-25 Microsoft Office 2013 is due soon but if you cannot wait for it, you can buy the current edition now and get a free upgrade to Office 2013 when it arrives....
548 2013-01-25 A minor furor erupted Friday after Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said in a radio interview on WFAN that it was possible Alex Rodriguez could miss the entire season, which is true. But it is not the expected outcome, he said....
549 2013-01-25 The Rolex 24 endurance race roars off the grid at Daytona International Speedway in Florida at 3:30 p.m. Saturday....
550 2013-01-25 Francesca Gino, a professor of psychology at Harvard and author of one of the books, “Sidetracked: Why Our Decisions Get Derailed and How We Can Stick to the Plan” (Harvard Business Review Press), offers this anecdote. She and her husband visited a souk in Dubai, determined to enjoy the day and to buy something authentic to help them remember the experience when they returned home.

After a day of wandering through stalls that sold traditional goods and faux designer products, her husband was drawn to a store where he spent almost two hours haggling over counterfeit watches that looked as good as the superexpensive originals.

He ended up with a replica of a $7,000 watch for just $100. But, Professor Gino wrote, his euphoria was short-lived. How did a plan to go to the souk and enjoy its traditional ambience turn into hours of bartering over a fake watch? And now, her husband isn’t even sure he likes it that much.

Having experienced similar situations in the past (don’t ask me about the silver bracelet I bought in an Istanbul market that, I discovered later, was stamped “Made in Mexico”), I might just argue that Professor Gino’s husband fell under the sway of a particularly persuasive salesman. But she says that’s too simple.

Too often, in areas big and small — new career paths, saving for retirement, buying a house — we think we’re going to go in one direction and end up in another.

It’s not that changing our minds is necessarily bad, if, with time and research, we discover that our goals have evolved. But it’s quite another thing to end up in a place you do not want to be — walking out of a souk with a counterfeit watch, say — with no real idea of how you got there. That, Professor Gino wrote, can be “discouraging, demoralizing and baffling.”

Just a little background here: Over the last three decades or so, a growing body of research has demonstrated that far from making decisions on a rational basis, as economists had long believed, humans make all sorts of decisions for all sorts of irrational reasons.

We’re affected by offers that seem better than they are. Who hasn’t added items they don’t really need into their shopping cart on Amazon to get “free” shipping? We are affected by having to make too many decisions, and this doesn’t apply just to trivial matters. Researchers have demonstrated that parole decisions by an Israeli panel were largely determined by what time the hearings were held.

We also all tend to do things we’re often not aware of doing, but they hamper our ability to make good choices.

Let me lay out the main ones that I took away from Professor Gino’s book and another one to be published in March on the same subject, “Decisive: How to Make Better Choices in Life and Work” (Crown Business), by Chip Heath, a professor at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford, and his brother, Dan Heath, a senior fellow at the Center for the Advancement of Social Entrepreneurship at Duke.

We tend to gather research that confirms our own biases — a phenomenon called, not surprisingly, confirmation bias by social scientists.

A blatant but true example from the Heaths’ book is that back in the 1960s, before we had so much medical information on the dangers of smoking, smokers were much more likely to read an article headlined, “Smoking Does Not Lead to Lung Cancer,” than one with the headline, “Smoking Leads to Lung Cancer.”

We let emotions play too big a role. They can be set off by situations unrelated to the event. If you’re going on a first date, for example, Professor Gino said, and get caught in traffic, you may feel angry and that can spill over into your date. You may decide it was just a bad match, rather than reflecting on the mood you were in when you arrived.

Most of us tend to be overly optimistic about the future and about own abilities and attributes. The Heaths cite studies showing that doctors who reckoned they were “completely certain” about a diagnosis were wrong 40 percent of the time.

I liked even more a 1997 survey conducted by U.S. News & World Report of 1,000 people, cited by Professor Gino, about who was most likely to get into heaven. Michael Jordan had a 65 percent chance, Mother Teresa a 79 percent chance. But 87 percent of the survey takers decided they were the ones most likely to go to heaven.

So we’re overconfident, emotional and irrational. What do we do about it?

Being aware when we make decisions that our own feelings, our relationships to others and outside powers all have an impact is a good start, Professor Gino said.

Here’s one of her suggestions: Take your emotional temperature. Try to be more aware of where your emotions are coming from and how, even if seemingly irrelevant, they may be clouding your decision.

When short-term emotions threaten to swamp long-term considerations, Chip Heath suggests that a simple yet highly effective way to think about a difficult decision is to consider what you would recommend to your best friend.

“When we step back and simulate someone else, it’s a clarifying move,” he said.

Carefully researching information — while at the same time considering the source of that information — is important for a number of reasons. It can help you make a better decision, and it may cause less regret in the long term.

Research shows that we tend to have greater regrets about decisions that have gone wrong when we feel we approached the subject without looking into it deeply enough or considering enough options, said Terry Connolly, a professor of management and organizations at the University of Arizona.

One more thing we should consider when making decisions is that we should not fear regret too much. It’s an inevitable part of life, and if you can say you’ve lived a life without regret, “you’re not having enough adventures, or you’re rationalizing and not truly examining when things went wrong,” Professor Connelly said.

We also tend to overemphasize how much regret we are going to feel, said Neal Roese, a professor of marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. “Most of the time, regret happens quickly and sharply, it hurts, and then it’s over.”

So as much as possible, think about your decisions carefully, dispassionately and with as much valid information as possible. Look to sources you normally would not. Question your own beliefs and confidence. And then go for it. If you regret it, well, there’s always another decision waiting to be made.
551 2013-01-25 JPMorgan Chase's chief risk officer is taking a temporary sabbatical, the latest move in an extensive reshuffling of JPMorgan's executive suite after a botched credit bet that has cost the bank more than $6 billion....
552 2013-01-25 During the Civil War, more than a quarter of dead soldiers remained unidentified. “I saw two human skull-bones, one pelvis and two jaw bones lying on a stump with no trace of a grave,” a newspaper correspondent wrote in 1866 about his tour of Southern battlefields. Even mothers could not recognize the weathered corpses of their sons. In order to increase the chances that they would receive proper burials, soldiers bought customized name tags made of metal or wood. When pinned on the lapel or worn around the neck, a tag could help bring the dead soldier home. “Soldiers did a lot to try to be identified,” says Luther Hanson, curator at the Quartermaster Museum. “Some soldiers even wrote their names on the bottom of their shoes.”

During the Spanish-American War, a military chaplain named Charles Pierce pushed to make these improvised tags official. As he worked in the morgue, Pierce noticed that the bodies of soldiers who’d elected to wear pins had a much better chance of being sent home, and so he drew up plans for a military-issued tag: round, aluminum, the size of a half-dollar. “It is better that all men shall wear these marks as a military duty than that one should fail to be identified,” he wrote.

By World War I, soldiers wore two tags. “One tag remained with the body, tied around the legs or ankles or feet,” Hanson says. “And one tag was put outside the coffin, or it might be nailed to the cross or Hebrew star.” The tags soon evolved into mementos with powerful symbolism. “In many cases, the tags are presented to the family,” Hanson says. “The tag is a link between the soldier and his loved ones.”

Elias Krakower is a Vietnam veteran and a volunteer with the Dog Tag Project of the POW/MIA Awareness Committee of N.J., a group that delivers lost tags recovered in Vietnam to their former owners or to the families of the deceased soldiers.

Do you still have your own tags? I have a duplicate set of my tags that I carry in my motorcycle bag. The original tags I gave to my eldest grandson. These tags — you rarely give them a second thought when you’re wearing them. But when someone is killed in combat, the tags are removed. It’s a very traumatic experience to have to take the tags off someone else.

You recently returned a set of tags to a veteran who survived combat. How did he react? Yes, we delivered them to a veteran who lost his tags in a firefight in Vietnam. He had taken the tags off his neck because they clinked and made noise. When he got them back, he cried. It brought back that moment when someone was trying to kill him.
553 2013-01-25 An economic renaissance in Mexico, Chile, Colombia, Panama and Peru has become the focus in Latin America, and sub-Saharan Africa has also flashed signs of promise....
554 2013-01-25 Fans who woke up at 3:30 this morning to watch Andy Murray play Roger Federer got an extra treat....
555 2013-01-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
556 2013-01-25 The campaign will use Kickstarter to raise money....
557 2013-01-25 Labor recruiters in China last year knowingly provided under-age workers to a supplier that built parts for products from Apple and other companies....
558 2013-01-25 Years of bad blood between two hedge fund magnates spilled publicly onto CNBC’s airwaves, as  Carl C. Icahn derided his younger counterpart as a “crybaby,” and William A. Ackman declared the veteran investor a “bully.”...
559 2013-01-25 Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky are a study in contrasts when it comes to national security policy, embodying a broader debate within the conservative movement....
560 2013-01-25 Bobby Jindal and Newt Gingrich seem to think the Republican Party just needs to change its tone....
561 2013-01-25 AT&T will pay $1.9 billion for spectrum licenses from Verizon Wireless that would cover 42 million people across 18 states....
562 2013-01-25 Even parents who are convinced we don't hover may not be stepping back to allow children to step up....
563 2013-01-25 With its new shared data plans, Verizon Wireless is succeeding at pushing consumers to spend more money on wireless data. So why not roll out these plans to businesses?...
564 2013-01-25 Despite rumblings, the Rolling Stones did not materialize on a wide-ranging roster of acts that includes Phoenix, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Vampire Weekend, the Wu-Tang Clan and Lou Reed....
565 2013-01-25 Ashley Wagner won the short program at the United States Figure Skating Championships in Omaha, finishing more than 2 points ahead of Agnes Zawadzki going into Saturday’s free skate.
566 2013-01-25 Among the worst hit is Toms River, one of New Jersey’s largest municipalities, with 90,000 people. It recently warned Wall Street that property tax receipts could drop 10 percent to 15 percent, according to its financial disclosure documents.

Down the coast, the tiny borough of Tuckerton lost close to 20 percent of its property tax base. In Sea Bright, nearly half the homes are uninhabitable.

The situation is similar on Long Island, according to interviews with officials there.

The village of Freeport in Nassau County expects that many of its 15,000 homeowners will qualify for reductions in property tax bills, erasing at least 5 percent of property tax revenues and probably far more.

Experts said the looming revenue crisis for localities in the region underscores how natural disasters can have a profound effect long after the debris is gone.

If localities try to raise overall tax rates to make up for looming deficits, they may touch off a backlash from homeowners with undamaged properties.

“My thing is to encourage property owners to not seek reassessments because you’re going to pay on one end or the other,” said Andrew Hardwick, Freeport’s mayor. “If too many people seek reassessment and are successful with it, that means, how do you pay the bills on the other end? You raise the taxes again? It doesn’t make sense.”

Some localities, like Long Beach, on Long Island, had shaky finances before the storm and are now in deeper trouble, according to local budget records. But many others had been on solid financial ground.

Two major bond-rating agencies, Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, have expressed concerns in recent weeks about the fiscal stability of numerous municipalities in the region.

New York City and county governments in New York are far less reliant on property taxes than localities, so they are expected to have an easier time weathering a drop in the value of the tax base caused by storm damage. The city, for example, has its own income and business taxes.

What’s more, the city and county governments in both states have a much broader property tax base than small localities.

The $50.7 billion Hurricane Sandy relief bill approved this month by the House of Representatives provides up to $300 million in low-interest loans for localities facing shortfalls. The Senate has supported a similar provision in its own relief package.

But some local officials said such financing was not nearly enough. States themselves have not yet sent aid, and senior state officials said they were not inclined to do so until federal money was exhausted.

“It’s a pretty inescapable conclusion that there will be an impact on the tax base,” said Michael Drewniak, chief spokesman for Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.

“In many instances, we had homes completely wiped out or severely damaged to the point they were rendered uninhabitable,” Mr. Drewniak said. “That left behind rebuildable land but, in the meantime, no ‘improvements’ to tax. In other cases, people may find it cost prohibitive to rebuild at all, depending on their individual circumstances.”

It could be a year or two before the aftereffects are fully understood, given that localities will have to assess damaged properties before lowering property taxes on them.

That process, in fact, could be contentious. Some localities take as long as two years to incorporate revised assessments into taxpayers’ bills. In the meantime, homeowners may balk at paying the higher tax when their properties are seriously damaged or destroyed.

But legally, they must pay every penny until the property has been reassessed.

Corinne DiSomma, the tax receiver for Babylon, N.Y., was duty-bound last month to send out thousands of property tax bills — her annual “Christmas cards,” as friends tease. They were based on July 1 values, no matter that scores of homes, in addition to her own, were heavily damaged in the storm.

Dan Tergesen’s home burned down in Babylon when the storm kept firefighters from reaching it in time. Local officials, he said, have since advised him that any reduction of his tax bill could be slow in coming, and “of course, they want me to rebuild my house as quickly as possible, so I am back on the tax rolls.”

Localities are also facing the prospect that homeowners will demand that property taxes be cut because of perceived decreases in the value of land beneath their homes.

Assessors rarely mark down land. But some homeowners may argue that their beachfront properties are worth less because buyers, newly sensitive to extreme weather, will avoid areas seen as vulnerable.

“We feel our market value will go down significantly, not just on the house but also the land,” said Kathy Barisciano, the president of the Ortley Beach Voters and Taxpayers Association, in Toms River. Ms. Barisciano said she has been telling town officials that they must take into consideration the fact that buyers may avoid Ortley Beach because of uncertainty over whether its battered beaches will be replenished and fortified against future storms.

Still, some officials said they were trying to find a silver lining.

In the Village of Mastic Beach, a newly incorporated patch of Long Island with 7,500 pieces of property, damage was reported at 400 homes.

“Definitely, it’s going to hurt the tax base of the village,” Mayor Bill Biondi said. “We’re a fairly new village, and in the two years, we’ve been hit with two hurricanes.”

But Mr. Biondi said he was hopeful that property tax revenues would rise again once people rebuilt bigger, sturdier homes. He noted that 100 homes in the flood zone were going up on pilings.

“We may get hit the first year,” he said, “and then I’m really hoping to bounce back bigger and better.”
567 2013-01-25 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf, already targeted by the country’s interventionist Supreme Court, has become embroiled in a new judicial controversy, this time over the investigation into a garment factory fire that killed at least 259 people in Karachi last year.

According to Pakistani news media reports, Mr. Ashraf urged that murder charges be dropped against the factory owners, Arshad and Shahid Bhaila, brothers who have been in jail since September and face trial in the coming weeks.

Initial investigations determined that the death toll had been greatly increased because of illegal and unsafe practices at the factory, including the chaining of emergency exits.

Almost immediately, labor groups and senior politicians reacted with anger to the reports about Mr. Ashraf’s intervention. The governor of Sindh Province, Ishrat ul Ebad Khan, publicly opposed the move, describing it as an insult to the relatives of those killed in the fire, which was one of the deadliest in the history of the country’s apparel industry.

Still, the furor raised questions about why the prime minister would embroil himself in such a delicate case, particularly at a time when the Supreme Court is seeking to have him arrested in relation to a separate corruption case.
568 2013-01-25 Those arguments included concerns about battlefield fraternization, worries about the difficulty of providing field accommodations, and fears that male soldiers might feel compelled to protect female soldiers at the expense of military objectives. While Captain Phillips and others inside and outside the Canadian military now view those objections as outdated and disproved, reaching that point was not an easy process.

The move to allow women into combat roles in Canada began with recommendations issued in 1970 by a government commission that conducted a sweeping examination of the place of women in Canada. The military started with a series of trials to see what combat roles were suited for women. Lt. Col. Shirley M. Robinson, a nurse in the Royal Canadian Air Force who was deputy director of women personnel at the time, said the trials were more of a stalling exercise to put off integrating women, a move that the military leadership opposed.

“Those trials should never have happened,” she said. “Women had already been out there in harm’s way.”

As the military delayed, and an internal report recommended allowing combat roles for women only in a relatively small number of helicopter squadrons, four people, three men and one woman, took advantage of Canada’s relatively new Charter of Rights and Freedoms to launch a formal challenge. The tribunal’s 1989 ruling opened all combat roles to women except for those in submarines. That restriction vanished in 2001.

Colonel Robinson, who retired from the military to consult with the tribunal before returning as a civilian consultant, said that the record since then has been largely positive. “We did not lower standards,” she said. “We put appropriate standards on every job in the armed forces. It had nothing to do with gender. A lot of men can’t meet the standards either.”

Women make up about 12 percent of the total military force but Canada’s Department of National Defense did not disclose how many of them are in combat roles. A study presented in late 2011 by Krystel Carrier-Sabourin, a doctoral student at the Royal Military College in Kingston, Ontario, found that 310 women filled combat roles in Afghanistan between 2001 and 2011.

Captain Phillips, who is now an adjutant at an artillery school in New Brunswick, said that she found herself commanding soldiers from both the United States and Afghanistan.

“They were not used to it, that’s for sure,” she said of those troops. “You could tell it was a curiosity for them and they were of the mind of ‘that’s fine for you guys but it’s not our way’.” Nevertheless, Captain Phillips said that her orders were always obeyed and she was never the subject of overt hostility.

Cpl. Katie Hodges, whose time with an infantry unit in Afghanistan was partly documented for the film “Sisters in Arms,” said that it is important to note that combat roles are voluntary for both men and women in the Canadian military.

“I went because I wanted to,” she said. “I wanted to be in the exact opposite of an office job.”

During her training and once she was deployed to Afghanistan, Corporal Hodges shared sleeping accommodations with men, like all women in the infantry. The only time she experienced separate quarters, she said, was when she went down to an American military base for joint training. In the Canadian military, only showers are segregated by gender.

Corporal Hodges, who is now a military photographer stationed at a base northwest of Toronto, is among those surprised that there has been any controversy in the United States about including women in combat roles.

“It’s hard to believe that there is a such a draconian attitude,” she said. “I certainly don’t want to sound offensive but the U.S. is far behind.”

Afghanistan is also notable for another waypoint in the history of women in the Canadian military. On May 17, 2006, Capt. Nichola Goddard, an artillery officer, was in a light armored vehicle when it was hit by two rocket-propelled grenades. She was the first female member of the Canadian military to die in combat.

Her father, Tim Goddard, an educator who lives in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, said that he believes she partly joined the military because a recruiter at her high school only directed his attention to the boys.

Mr. Goddard rejected the argument that women should not be placed in combat roles to shield them from harm.

“I can assure you that a mother misses a son as much as a father grieves for a daughter,” he said. “Grief has no gender.”
569 2013-01-25 A little more than a year ago, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s staff reported that it was taking a careful look at applications from people in prison for official mercy. His spokesman promised: “It is a power that the governor will use practically and methodically to help ensure everyone is treated fairly under the law.”

He hasn’t used it at all.

Mr. Cuomo has had two years and a month as governor. So far, he has not commuted the sentence of a single one of the 55,000 people in the state prison system, or granted a pardon to any of the tens of thousands of others, in prison and out.

So the quality of mercy is not strained under Mr. Cuomo. It hasn’t even broken a sweat. Gov. Rick Perry in Texas issued 14 pardons just before Christmas; Gov. Jerry Brown in California handed out 79. A Thanksgiving turkey has a better chance of getting a break from President Obama than any federal inmates: No president in modern times has granted fewer pardons than Mr. Obama. “I haven’t used it yet,” Mr. Cuomo said last week in a radio interview. “I’ve considered using it in a number of cases.”

Perhaps true, but no honest discussion of pardons or early release can evade the question of political risk. A person who looks worthy of getting an extraordinary second chance might use it to commit a new crime, and the governor or president would be turned into a political spit roast.

Mr. Cuomo doesn’t have to explain why he has not exercised any clemency. Legally, his reasons do not matter: under the State Constitution, his power is absolute. He could have thought no one was worthy, he could have had a toothache or he might have decided that he would take no chances on another person who might make him look bad.
570 2013-01-25 The cinema complex in Aurora, Colo., reopened last week, six months after a gunman killed 12 patrons, wounded 58 and left deep scars on a community still struggling to recover. “Everyone heals, some slower, some in different ways,” contended Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado in the face of angry complaints from some of the victims’ families that the reopening, with prayers, a “night of remembrance” and a screening of “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” was insensitive and crass.

His point about the certainty of healing, while undoubtedly heartfelt, is too often and too easily offered by political leaders when, in fact, Aurora, like Newtown, Conn., and countless other places savaged by multiple shootings across decades, must struggle for years with the legacy and its wounds, largely alone as the spotlight fades. The trials of gun-damaged victims who survive mass assaults is one of the intangibles that must not be overlooked if the nation, and the political system, is to have any hope in the renewed fight for stronger gun controls.

For all the talk at the movie house of healing, one surviving victim, 23-year-old Caleb Medley, remained in grievous suffering on his back with severe brain and motor damage and the loss of an eye. His family exulted when he was briefly helped to his feet last month, and hoped that he might be able to leave rehabilitation soon for an extended care facility, however limited his horizons. Seven family members of another victim, Ashley Moser, take turns making sure the 25-year-old woman, a paraplegic after a neck wound, is rotated twice a night in her bed. Her aunt, Annie Dalton, reports Ashley remains deeply depressed with little motivation as she faces the fact that her 6-year-old daughter, Veronica, was shot dead that night while the paralyzed mother lost a fetus soon after the gun spree.

“There is no closure here,” Ms. Dalton, a retired public school principal, politely reported of Ashley’s life. “It’s a tough road,” she said, citing all manner of bureaucratic tangles about health insurance, fading rehabilitation coverage, other financial demands beyond estimating, and endless tasks like the family’s learning to move Ashley on a board to distant doctors’ appointments.

There is familiar ritual in Aurora’s aftermath that the rest of the nation needs to know. A charity fund that grew so quickly after the carnage — to about $5 million — is depleted. It was distributed by Ken Feinberg, the respected compensation guru from 9/11 and other tragedies, under a formula that devotes 70 percent to those who suffered brain damage or paralysis — something more than $200,000 each. “There’s not enough money,” Mr. Feinberg apologized to claimants with lower-rated trauma. “It’s a horrible situation,” he said of Aurora’s needs.

In caring for her niece, Ms. Dalton can barely speak of the fresh massacre in Newtown or the “unreal” power of the National Rifle Association in dominating the conversation about a problem that in the last 40 years has taken one million lives and left countless others like Ashley and her family to manage unspeakably debilitated lives. “The next tragedy is on its way,” Ms. Dalton said of the one certain lesson in Ashley’s fate.
571 2013-01-25 Now, all this is jeopardized. Last year, Wegelin was charged in the United States with illegally helping American citizens avoid taxes. Under the shock of these charges, Wegelin was split up and its valuable assets placed with another local bank, Raiffeisen. Its bad assets remained with Wegelin, though its name was changed to Notenstein Privatbank, for a medieval guild in St. Gallen.

Wegelin executives eventually pleaded guilty before a court in New York to helping Americans avoid taxes on $1.2 billion of assets between 2002 and 2010, and agreed to pay restitution and fines of almost $60 million. Entering the plea, one of Mr. Hummler’s closest associates, Otto Bruderer, told the court that Wegelin had always believed it was in compliance with Swiss law, adding that “such conduct was common in the Swiss banking industry.”

The news shook St. Gallen. “It was extremely surprising,” said Leonie Schwendimann, who runs a small bookshop across from St. Laurentius, the Protestant church where Bach concerts sponsored by the bank are occasionally held.

Ms. Schwendimann, who often attended the concerts and was a friend of Rudolf Lutz, the baroque specialist who directed the series, voiced concern for their future. “It would be a great loss,” she said. Of the bank’s disappearance, she added, “You have to take care of your business.”

It seemed only coincidental that posters around town advertised the latest piece at the town theater, a sharp critique of the financial world by the Swiss playwright Urs Widmer titled “The End of Money,” featuring a full-length photograph of a banker with donkey’s ears.

Madeleine Herzog, responsible for culture in the city government, called the bank’s restoration of St. Catherine’s convent “exemplary.” But she was concerned about the future without Wegelin. “It was planned for the buildings to be used for cultural events, but that lies now in the responsibility of the bank’s new owners,” she said. “What their concrete plans are, what the future of the Bach cycle is,” she said, “that is not known.”

The bank Raiffeisen has taken up some of the slack in the cultural area recently, engaging the Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist to design an entire city square and adjacent streets around the bank’s headquarters in red fabric, then forming portions of the area into couches, tables, flower pots, even an automobile, all in screaming bright red. The area, known as Red Square, is now a favorite hangout for locals in fair weather.

But Wegelin’s cultural ambitions went far beyond St. Gallen. On Facebook, the Bach Foundation has almost 75,000 friends, with the largest contingents outside Switzerland found in the United States, Mexico and Brazil, according to Jacqueline Neuburger, the foundation’s secretary.

For many in the town, Wegelin’s disappearance brought disillusionment. “I am not astonished, I am rather disappointed, at how naïve they could be, for a particularly serious institution,” said Marcel Mayer, 58, a historian and director of the city archives.

The bank, he said, was founded by the Zyli family, local cloth merchants in a town long noted more for its textiles than finance, though the name Wegelin came from a son-in-law, the scion of a family that brought forth doctors and theologians but few bankers, yet who entered the bank in the 19th century. But it was only with the arrival of Mr. Hummler in 1989 that the bank took on cultural significance.

“He was always this ambivalent figure,” Mr. Mayer said.

Mr. Hummler’s father, while active in politics, was also an accomplished musician who sang lieder by Romantic composers like Schumann and Schubert to his own piano accompaniment.

Business leaders in the town have retained their respect for Mr. Hummler and the bank, which grew in the last decade from 320 employees to 700 under his aegis. Profit was “not the principal motivation” for Mr. Hummler’s support of the arts, said Fredmund Malik, 58, an Austrian business consultant who has lived and worked for decades in St. Gallen. “It was a genuine concern of his, very profound, and at a very high level.”

The remark by Mr. Hummler’s colleague, Mr. Bruderer, before the New York court that Wegelin’s behavior was common in Swiss finance did not fall on welcome ears in Switzerland, even prompting a public accusation of “traitor” from the leader of the Christian Democratic People’s Party, Christophe Darbellay, to which Mr. Hummler responded with a charge of defamation.

The general reaction in St. Gallen, Mr. Malik said, has been, in Swiss fashion, rather deep, yet discreet. “It has largely been quiet,” he said, adding, “There is general regret at what has happened, and even among private bankers, the reaction has been low key.”
572 2013-01-25 We agree on the importance of getting United States chemical regulations right. Doing so requires that federal agencies base their decisions on a careful review of the best available science, rather than on “claims or beliefs,” as one official of the Food and Drug Administration put it.

More than a dozen federal laws regulate chemicals, including safety laws that exist to protect human health and the environment, and we are working to ensure that current and future regulations continue to be based on the most up-to-date science.

We support efforts to enhance scientific understanding of how chemicals interact with the human body, including through robust independent scientific research into the complex biological process called endocrine disruption. And we have supported increased financing for the Environmental Protection Agency to develop and carry out its Endocrine Disruptor Screening Program.

Finally, we are committed to modernizing the Toxic Substances Control Act to reflect the latest advances in science and technology, while creating a world-class regulatory program that gives consumers the confidence they need and deserve.
573 2013-01-25 The activity stems partly from new leadership. The Railroad Commission is headed by three elected commissioners, and each of the current ones has arrived in the past three years.

The drilling boom, along with increased scrutiny from the public, the Legislature and federal regulators, has also forced the commissioners’ hand. Oil production in Texas rose by 18 percent between 2010 and 2011. That has strained the permitting and inspection capabilities of the commission, whose budget — $71.1 million this fiscal year, down from $74.7 million last year — has not kept up.

The boom is driven by high oil prices and the spread of fracking, the technique of shooting water, sand and chemicals underground to retrieve oil and gas trapped in the pores of rocks. Drilling enthusiasts — including the three commissioners — see a future that is nearly boundless, as more oil and gas-bearing geologic formations are tapped.

“What is happening in the oil and gas patch these days is revolutionary,” Barry Smitherman, the Railroad Commission chairman, said at a forum held last month by The Texas Tribune.

The drilling surge has underscored the commission’s shortcomings and accelerated calls for change. The Legislature, as part of a standard agency review process, called “sunset,” is assessing the commission’s effectiveness and drawing up a bill to mandate changes.

Proposals from the Sunset Advisory Commission, which conducts reviews of the efficiency of state agencies, would limit some campaign contributions the commissioners can receive, to reduce conflicts of interest with the drilling industry (which donates prolifically to the campaigns). For example, the proposals would bar the commissioners from knowingly accepting contributions from groups contesting cases before the commission.

The commissioners have said that such rules would be stricter than for other state-level elected officials.

“We make decisions based upon the facts and the law,” said Mr. Smitherman, adding that he was “unaffected by campaign contributions.”

The proposals also include changing the name of the commission, which was founded in 1891 to regulate railroads and took on its oil and gas duties around World War I.

The federal government is now the main regulator of railroads. The idea behind a name change is to clear up public confusion.

Mr. Smitherman said that during his 2012 election campaign, at least one person offered him a mistaken compliment, saying, “I’ve ridden your railroads and your people were superpolite.”

The Sunset Advisory Commission has recommended changing the Railroad Commission’s name to the Texas Energy Resources Commission, though Mr. Smitherman and David Porter, another of the commissioners, prefer Texas Energy Commission.

Another priority is relaunching the commission’s Web site. Christi Craddick, the newest commissioner, recently described the current site as “awful.”

The commission’s servers are so strained that users cannot gain access to key data on the site, like a database of well permit applications, for several hours during the workday, and the commission struggles to add more features.

Last month it hired a chief information officer to overhaul the technology. The site will be launched “as soon as possible,” Mr. Smitherman said. The commission has asked legislators for a $17 million budget supplement to fix the technology.

The Web upgrades should make it easier to process drilling paperwork more quickly, something the industry wants. It will also allow more information to be placed online, though the commission offers few specifics on searchable features it envisions.

Mr. Porter said the commission is interested in putting more enforcement data online. “Quite honestly,” he said, “we don’t have the capacity right now because we don’t have the space on the servers to do it.”

Another area of improvement is the drilling rules, most of which were written long before the spread of fracking. The commission is working on a rule that would tighten safety requirements for oil and gas wells. It is an important area, known as well integrity, that Texas regulators have essentially left alone for more than 30 years, according to Scott Anderson, an Austin-based senior policy adviser with the Environmental Defense Fund.

Another rule in the works would make it easier to recycle water from oil and gas wells — a much-discussed issue in the drought-ravaged state. The commission is also working on tightening oversight of “disposal” wells, where chemical-laced waste from fracking processes gets buried.

The rule-making activity is “a lot more than we’ve seen in past years,” said Teddy Carter, vice president of government affairs for the Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association.

Mr. Anderson says that the environmental community’s wish list includes more rules, on issues like storing waste in pits and monitoring wellheads for overly high pressures.

Mr. Smitherman says enforcing existing rules is also a priority of the commission. It has faced criticism on this from the sunset commission, whose recent report said it “needs to take additional enforcement action to deter serious and repeat violations.”

In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Railroad Commission says, its inspectors found about 13,500 alleged violations, including 163 major ones, but assessed total penalties of just $177,475.

The commission has increased its penalties for repeat offenders, and Mr. Smitherman said he intends to create an enforcement division, probably during the summer.

“By making it a stand-alone division, we communicate that it’s important,” he said.

Critics say the commission has been slack in addressing drilling problems.

Sharon Wilson, a Texas-based organizer for Earthworks, a nonprofit environmental group, said that when people call her with concerns about contamination on their property and she suggests reporting the problems to the Railroad Commission, “they actually get angry with me because they feel that’s not going to get them anywhere.”

The drilling industry, Ms. Wilson said, “has way too much influence in that agency.”
574 2013-01-25 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Strong profits from sales of Post-it notes and other office products helped lift the 3M Company’s fourth-quarter net income, despite a slowdown in other parts of its business.

The company reported Thursday that it earned $991 million, or $1.41 a share, up 3.9 percent from a year earlier. The results matched expectations of analysts surveyed by FactSet.

3M said profits grew in its consumer and office business, which makes Scotch tape and Post-it notes, as well as in its health care unit. Profits fell in all four of its other divisions, which make items like industrial products and construction materials.

Because the company includes a wide range of industries and sells products all over the globe, its results are a closely watched economic bellwether.

Its revenue rose 4 percent to $7.39 billion, above expectations of $7.17 billion.

Operating profit jumped 10.5 percent to $430 million in its health care unit. Strong sales growth for food safety, bandages, and mouth care lifted the results.

Profit jumped 28 percent to $230 million in its consumer and office business. But profit fell slightly in its biggest unit, industrial and transportation.
575 2013-01-25 Sometimes artists who work the big stages of international festivals seem hamstrung by an ordinary white-box gallery. For Documenta 13 last summer the Polish artist Maria Loboda created a “moving forest” with references to military strategy and “Macbeth.” During the show a cluster of cypress trees arranged in battle formation appeared to march from one end of Karlsaue Park in Kassel, Germany, to the other. Unfortunately, nothing in Ms. Loboda’s current Chelsea exhibition rises to the level of that magical intervention.

Thematically, it’s not all that different; the small, isolated works here find natural forces resisting our attempts to tame or harness them. In photographs, traditional English gardens, with their rows of conical shrubberies, are set against marbled backgrounds. They are meant to show “wilderness reclaiming its power,” according to the news release, but at this scale they look inert and unthreatening. More intriguing are the tree branches and clumps of selenite (a mineral found in the desert) that hang from points along the ceiling; even these, however, are too diffuse to have much of an impact.

The most potent piece, a series of blackened steel bars defining the edges of the gallery and outlining an illusory staircase, also seems to reflect a sense of claustrophobia about conventional art spaces. At her best Ms. Loboda has an itinerant, mystical-historical sensibility that brings to mind Trisha Donnelly. Alas, it has been suppressed here.
576 2013-01-25 Africa is an unstinting source of new photography, of which New York would see little on a regular basis were it not for a few commercial galleries and the Walther Collection. Last fall the Walther, a German foundation with a project space in Chelsea, initiated a series of three exhibitions under the umbrella title “Distance and Desire: Encounters With the African Archive,” organized by the art historian Tamar Garb. The first show included European ethnographic photography. This one, “Contemporary Reconfigurations,” sets out to illustrate how much a product of invention and fantasy ethnography can be.

Much of what’s here is about costuming and critical playacting. One South African artist, Zanele Muholi, poses androgynous-looking male models in Zulu female finery. Another, Sabelo Mlangeni, shows tribal dancers in traditional attire accessorized by sunglasses, that element of cosmopolitan chic.

Three South African photographers make skin color a mutable feature. In a racially mixed group of 2011 head shots, Pieter Hugo dyes the skin of all the white sitters black. Candice Breitz paints the bodies of Zulu woman in tourist photographs white. In a 2001 video called “Snow White,” the black artist Berni Searle appears covered in white flour, which she later moistens and kneads into dough.

It’s good to see work by Sammy Baloji, an artist New York is just catching up with, though over all what’s in the show is familiar. Reliance on the tried and true is the downside of shows limited by the parameters of collections like the Walther’s, rather than picked from art that the market has yet to find.

Still, there’s at least one piece new to New York, and a beauty, by yet another South African, Andrew Putter. Called “Secretly I Will Love You More,” it’s a video “portrait” of Maria de la Quellerie, the wife of one of the earliest Dutch settlers of Cape Town and mother of an adopted black child. Dressed in 17th-century clothes, the woman in the framed portrait (played by the Cape Town actress Claire Watling) is motionless except for her lips, which almost imperceptibly move as she sings a soft lullaby, in a South African language, to her child.
577 2013-01-25 Microsoft’s sales of Windows, which powers the vast majority of personal computers, appeared to be healthier than those numbers would indicate. It said its revenue from its Windows business, which accounts for more than a quarter of total company revenue, rose 24 percent to $5.88 billion for the fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31.

Those figures, however, included revenue from Windows sales before the product was officially available last November. Microsoft was required to defer that revenue because of accounting rules. Without it, Windows sales would have grown only 11 percent.

While sales of Windows tend to closely track the performance of the PC market, Microsoft also sells Windows 8 upgrades to people who already have PCs. For the first time last quarter, the company’s Windows business also included sales of Microsoft’s own tablet computer, Surface, which it was not offering in the same period a year earlier.

In an interview, Peter Klein, the chief financial officer of Microsoft, said that in some cases, sales of Windows 8 were hurt by the limited availability of computers with touch screens that more fully exploit the capabilities of the software: “We need to do more of those.”

“I think we’ve learned a lot,” Mr. Klein said. “Business PCs are growing faster than consumer, emerging markets are growing faster than developed.”

He declined to say how many Surface tablets Microsoft had sold, but he suggested the number was small because of the limited retail distribution of Surface, which was only available in Microsoft’s own stores until recently.

The company said its net income for the quarter was $6.38 billion, or 76 cents a share, compared to $6.62 billion, or 78 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, on average, had expected Microsoft to report earnings of 75 cents a share and revenue of $21.53 billion. The company’s shares were down 0.4 percent in after-hours trading.

Microsoft’s results showed far more vitality in areas in which the company caters to big business customers, rather than consumers — a market that has eluded Microsoft many times over the years. Its best performing business was its server and tools division, which had a 9 percent increase in sales in the quarter.

While its Office suite of applications showed weakness overall, as some customers delayed purchases ahead of the release of a new version of the product, business revenue from that division was up 2 percent and consumer revenue declined 2 percent, excluding deferred revenue.

Other consumer-oriented divisions struggled, including entertainment and devices, the group dominated by the Xbox game console, which had an 11 percent decline in sales.

Microsoft and its partners sold four times as many Windows Phones during the holiday quarter as they did a year earlier, Mr. Klein said. That is good news for Microsoft’s struggling mobile phone initiative, though the company still has a negligible share of the market.

Revenue from Microsoft’s online services, which Bing is a part of, grew 11 percent, but the division continues to hemorrhage money.

“It shows that Microsoft is evolving really into an enterprise software company,” said Bill Whyman, an analyst at ISI Group.
578 2013-01-25 The Cuban artist Alexandre Arrechea took inspiration from the past when conceiving “No Limit,” a show of 10 site-specific metal sculptures that will be on view March 1 to June 9 along the Park Avenue medians from 53rd to 67th Streets. Each sculpture is based loosely on a New York architectural landmark: the Chrysler Building, the former Citicorp Center, the Empire State Building, the Flatiron Building, the Helmsley Building, the MetLife Building, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower, the Seagram Building, the Sherry-Netherland hotel and the Thurgood Marshall United States Court House. The tallest will rise 20 feet.

“This project has been entirely designed for Park Avenue,” Mr. Arrechea said. “I’ve picked buildings like the Seagram Building or MetLife that define the city and define Park Avenue.”

Presented by the Magnan Metz Gallery in Chelsea, together with the city’s Parks and Recreation Department and the Fund for Park Avenue’s sculpture committee, the installation is Mr. Arrechea’s first public art exhibition in New York. While most of the sculptures retain some of the buildings’ most recognizable features, they often meld new forms and sometimes even moving parts. His Citicorp Center has a spinning top, a metaphor for the fiscal crisis; his Flatiron is literally flat, and while the outline will be obvious, it will be flying on a flagpole, set on ball bearings so it moves with the wind.

“Some of the sculptures appear to be almost dancing in front of the buildings,” Mr. Arrechea said. One in particular does not obviously reflect a building. At first glance this work, in front of the Seagram Building, seems to be a straightforward fire hose wrapped around a bright-red spool. But unraveled, the hose begins to abstractly resemble that International Style landmark.

In 2006 the Gagosian Gallery and its competitors began to exhibit at the European Fine Art Fair, the giant event every March in Maastricht, the Netherlands. The fair includes all collecting categories, including textiles and antiquities, jewelry, old-master paintings and manuscripts. At the time the organizers hoped to shore up the contemporary art section to compete with dedicated contemporary art fairs like Art Basel (held in Switzerland each June) and the Frieze Art Fair (in London in October). But as fast as these dealers blew in, most, including Gagosian, dropped out.

When this year’s fair opens on March 15 Gagosian will reappear.

“When we did it back then we didn’t have as big a European presence as we do now,” Larry Gagosian said in a telephone interview. “Now we’re all over Europe, so it makes sense to be there.”

The centerpiece of the Gagosian booth will be “Metallic Venus,” a monumental stainless-steel sculpture by Jeff Koons from his new “Antiquity” series. More than eight feet tall, it depicts a buxom woman lifting her robe over her head to expose her body. Mr. Koons has said the model refers to the ancient Roman marble statue Callipygian Venus, or “Venus of the beautiful buttocks.”

“I will be also doing a major show of new and recent work with Jeff in May,” Mr. Gagosian said, “that will take up all of the 24th Street gallery.”

The timing is no coincidence. It is in May that another Chelsea gallery, David Zwirner, will also hold a show of Mr. Koons’s new work. Despite rumors that Mr. Koons is planning to leave the Gagosian Gallery, he has told friends he intends to show in several different places: Gagosian, Zwirner and the Sonnabend Gallery, where he has had perhaps the longest relationship.
579 2013-01-25 Many lawmakers, including some Democrats, prefer more modest measures to curb gun violence, like enhanced background checks of gun buyers or better enforcement of existing laws.

One such measure has been introduced by Senator , Democrat of and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who will begin hearings next week on gun violence. Among the witnesses will be , the chief executive of the .

“Senator Feinstein has been trying to ban guns from law-abiding citizens for decades,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for Mr. LaPierre. “It’s disappointing but not surprising that she is once again focused on curtailing the Constitution instead of prosecuting criminals or fixing our broken system.”

More legislation is expected to arise over the next week or two, and some of it will have bipartisan support. Senator , Democrat of New York, and Senator , Republican of , have agreed to work together on gun trafficking legislation that would seek to crack down on illegal guns. Currently, federal law does not define gun trafficking as a crime.

Mr. Kirk is also working on a background check proposal with Senator , Democrat of , who is considered somewhat of a bellwether among Democrats with strong gun-rights records.

Mr. Leahy’s bill would give law enforcement officials more tools to investigate so-called straw purchasing of guns, in which people buy a firearm for others who are prohibited from obtaining one on their own.

Ms. Feinstein was joined on Thursday by several other lawmakers, including Representative of New York, who will introduce companion legislation in the House, and Senator of , who emotionally recalled the day when the children and adults were gunned down in Newtown. “I will never forget the sight and the sounds of parents that day,” he said. Several gun violence victims, relatives of those killed and others gave brief statements of support for the bill.

Ms. Feinstein’s bill — which, unlike the 1994 assault weapons ban, would not expire after being enacted — would also ban certain characteristics of guns that make them more lethal. More than 900 models of guns would be exempt for hunting and sporting.

Such a measure is vehemently opposed by the N.R.A. and many Republican lawmakers, as well as some Democrats. “I don’t think you should have restrictions on clips,” said Senator of , who has said he welcomes a Senate debate on guns. “The Second Amendment wasn’t written so you can go hunting, it was to create a force to balance a tyrannical force here.”

Proponents of the ban argue that in spite of claims to the contrary, the 1994 measure, of which Ms. Feinstein was a chief sponsor, helped curb gun violence. “The original bill, though flawed, had a definite impact on the number of these weapons faced by the police on streets and used in crimes,” said Adam Eisgrau, who helped write the 1994 ban while serving as Judiciary Committee counsel to Ms. Feinstein. The new bill, with more explicit language on the types of features on banned weapons, “is far more respectful of firearms for recreation uses,” he said.

Bans on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines were among the proposals unveiled by and Vice President last week. Mr. Biden took the campaign for tougher gun laws to the Internet on Thursday in an online video chat that was part of an effort by the White House to build public support for its guns package. Mr. Biden, who developed the plans embraced by Mr. Obama, will host a round-table event in , Va., on Friday, and officials have said that Mr. Obama will travel at some point to promote the package.
580 2013-01-25 A team led by Rajiv Kumar of the German Cancer Research Center in and Dirk Schadendorf of the University of Essen looked for the mutations in a family whose members tended to get melanoma. Four relatives who developed melanoma had inherited one of them, while four who remained melanoma-free did not have it. They also found the mutation in a 36-year-old member of the family who had not developed melanoma but had had many moles, often a sign of risk in families prone to melanoma.

Their findings indicate that those who inherit the mutations might be born with cells that have taken a first step toward cancer.

The mutations spur cells to make an enzyme, telomerase, that keeps cells immortal by preventing them from gradually losing the ends of their chromosome, the telomeres. When telomeres erode, a cell dies. But the enzyme also has other, poorly understood functions that are thought to keep cancer cells alive, said Robert Weinberg, an M.I.T. researcher who studies telomerase and cancer and was not involved with the research. “The paradigm that it does nothing but extend telomeres is a gross oversimplification,” he said.

Abundant telomerase is so important to cancers that it occurs in 90 percent of them, said Immaculata De Vivo, a Harvard Medical School researcher who studies telomerase and cancer and directs a DNA sequencing program. She, too, was not involved with the research.

The results of the two studies presented in the papers “are like a court of law — it’s the preponderance of the evidence,” she said. “We all knew telomerase was important for cancer, but now we are finding the mechanisms, the machinery.”

Scientists were surprised that the mutations in the dark matter of melanoma tumors were so commonplace. Dr. Garraway and his colleagues had the entire DNA sequences for a collection of melanomas — genes as well as the rest of the DNA, including areas that turn genes on and off.

“We said, ‘Let’s just take a look and see if there are any mutations in a regulatory region,’ ” Dr. Garraway said.

At first, they looked at the DNA sequences of 19 tumors. They were amazed to find one or the other of the two mutations in 17 of them. So the researchers decided to look at 51 additional melanomas and a handful of bladder and liver cancers. The mutations popped up again.

“It was really quite striking,” Dr. Garraway said.

But it is not clear how to reverse the mutations’ cancer-causing effects, Dr. Garraway said. And although people have long wanted to block telomerase production in cancer cells, they have not found a drug to do it.

Still, the findings are highly significant, experts said.

“We have always known that just looking at genes alone would provide a limited number of answers about why cancer develops,” said Elaine Mardis of , who was not involved with the research. “The brakes or the gas that control the genes that cause cancer are as important as gene mutations,” she said. The new papers, Dr. Mardis added, “show where additional answers may lie.”
581 2013-01-25 There are two of them in New Mexico, on the eastern and western flanks of the Bootheel. Camp Ramsey, where Agent Algarate Martínez is sometimes stationed, opened in 2009. Camp Garza opened in November — the ripple effect of a rancher’s killing in Arizona, most likely by a drug smuggler.

Though the number of apprehensions of illegal border crossers has continued its steady decline, the number of drug seizures has remained constant all along the American Southwest, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office, justifying the Border Patrol’s expansion into such remote areas. Arizona already has five such forward-operating bases, with three more to open this year.

In the El Paso sector, the number of detained illegal immigrants fell to roughly 10,400 last year from 122,000 in 2006. Agent Cordero said that half of them were captured in the Bootheel region, where, unless a migrant got lost while trying to sneak into the United States through Arizona, those who get caught are likely to be carrying bundles of marijuana.

Dispassionately, Agent Algarate Martínez, 37, who is from Zaragoza, Spain, said, “This is dope country.”

There are four to six agents assigned to each shift at Camp Ramsey: morning, swing and midnight. They each stay there for five days and five nights, and they each patrol alone, looking for signs of people where people are not expected to be. It seems like an exercise in futility — agents scanning the rocky, dusty ground for human footprints amid the footprints of cows, bobcats, wild pigs and mountain lions from inside their Ford Raptors, but mostly by foot.

Agent Algarate Martínez drove to Mingas to check on sensors that had been tripped in sequence, following the type of northward pattern typically traveled by smugglers. He found no one and figured it must have been a false alarm, which is not uncommon.

Dinner at Camp Ramsey that night was burgers cooked on the grill by an agent; he dropped a plate of them on the communal table, and then shuffled to his bed to catch some sleep before his shift began at midnight.

The agents bring their own food — Doritos chips, chocolate-chip granola bars, spicy kung pao noodles (“just add hot water”) and Lean Cuisine. Aaron Dozal, 25, who is from El Paso, seasoned his burger with a pungent green-chili sauce his wife had made.

An agent working overnight captured two drug mules somewhere between the Mingas gate and Monument 40, an obelisk-shaped border marker so white it glows in the dark when the full moon is out. The shift’s supervisor told the five agents reporting to work in the morning that two other mules had gotten away.

One of those agents, Luis Colón Díaz, who is 32 and from Puerto Rico, decided he would carry out his search on foot, on the hills behind an abandoned yellow house in the Victorio Ranch, a rambling property speckled by hide-outs used by spotters for the drug gangs. The trek consisted of roughly four miles in a circular pattern across a succession of hills. It had rained hard overnight, which was at once bad and good: bad because it might have washed away footprints, and good because new footprints would be easy to spot on the moist ground.

The first out-of-place thing he found was a water bottle, which still had beads of water inside. “Fresh,” Agent Colón Díaz said. He adjusted the strap that held his shotgun over his shoulder, as if to make sure the weapon was still there.

He has a degree in anthropology from the University of Colorado Denver, where he once wrote a paper comparing the digestive systems of cows and howler monkeys.

On top of some rocks at the crest of a hill, he found a blue toothbrush. There was a bit of shade from a bush and a clear view of the American side of the border, as far as Interstate 10. Undeniably, he said, “a spotter’s hangout.”

The radio crackled. Another agent moving in the area said, “Looks like there’s one on one side of the water tank by the ravine and another guy on the other side.”

Agent Colón Díaz took his shotgun off his shoulder and aimed it forward as he made his way down the hill, following an arroyo that he knew led to the water tank.

“Animals,” said the voice on the radio.

Distant sights are deceiving in the desert. Cows can seem like humans moving slowly through thorny brush.

Back at his truck, Agent Colón Díaz unloaded his shotgun and drove to Camp Ramsey, the end of another shift.

In a busy urban area, he said, “an agent has minutes” to figure out where an illegal border-crosser is going and catch him before he gets away.

The Bootheel is so far from everything, he went on, “it’s going to be hours, days, until these guys get anywhere.”
582 2013-01-25 The statement also explicitly ruled out any talks over “denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, which has been the objective of both on-again-off-again international talks with Pyongyang for two decades and an agreement the North signed with 21 years ago.

“We do not hide that a variety of satellites and long-range rockets which will be launched by the D.P.R.K. one after another and a nuclear test of higher level will target against the U.S., the sworn enemy of the Korean people,” the statement said, using the abbreviation for the North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.

But it also repeated past wording that the nuclear program was meant as deterrence.

Assessing North Korea’s real intentions is always difficult, and it may prove that the statement, issued by the country’s highest military body, was another outburst by an insecure, starving country seeking to shake down the West for more aid, a cycle had vowed to break. Pyongyang’s public declarations often heat up at times when the United States is focusing its attention elsewhere.

Still, the statement comes at a time when American officials were already expressing renewed concerns about the North’s intentions. Intelligence officials have concluded that the recent long-range rocket test was successful, and reached as far as the before propelling a washing-machine-size satellite into orbit. It later tumbled, but the launching suggested a capability to toss a warhead much farther than before.

American intelligence officials said recently that, at best, the North’s missiles could hit , and that it would be at least three years, maybe more, before that range could be extended to the continental United States.

American intelligence officials have also become concerned that the latest rocket test indicated that the country’s new leader might have decided that confrontation with the West could prove a more successful strategy to retaining power than a new attempt at difficult economic reforms.

There had been hopes that Mr. Kim — who is reported to have made modest economic changes and is portrayed as more affable than his father — might be willing to compromise with the West for economic aid. Thursday’s threat was the latest suggestion that he was more likely to follow the pattern that his father, , established when he ran the country: a cycle of a rocket launching, United Nations condemnation and nuclear testing.

“It’s a major test for Kim Jong-un,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea specialist at Dongguk University in . “Unlike the rocket launching in December, which the North has said was conducted because it was his father’s dying wish, a nuclear test will be Kim Jong-un’s decision, one for which he will be held responsible.”

The North appears to be making preparations for a possible nuclear test at the Punggye test site in northeastern North Korea, near the Chinese border. Defense Secretary told reporters on Thursday that the North Koreans “have the capability, frankly, to conduct these tests in a way that makes it very difficult to determine whether or not they are doing it.”

Because the tests are underground, activity that American spy satellites see at the test site is not a reliable predictor of when a test will take place. At times over the past decade North Korea has feigned preparations, but it has exploded a device only twice: an attempt in 2006 that was later judged a fizzle, and a more successful test a few months after Mr. Obama came to office four years ago. That test turned the Obama administration hawkish on North Korea and wary of pursuing any deep engagement with the country.

The White House responded to the North Korean declaration Thursday by declaring it “needlessly provocative.” , the White House press secretary, told reporters that “further provocations would only increase Pyongyang’s isolation,” a variant of the line the White House has used every time the North has issued a threat, launched a missile or revealed a new nuclear facility.

But deeper isolation does not appear to be the young Mr. Kim’s greatest fear. So far, China, which supplies the North’s energy and some of its food, has not cut off aid in response to North Korean actions even though its leaders have urged Mr. Kim and his father to refrain from provocations. Chinese officials have made clear in meetings with their American counterparts that they fear instability in North Korea more than they worry about the country advancing its longstanding nuclear and missile capabilities.

“If you look back over the past four years,” a former administration official said recently, “we haven’t moved the Chinese at all.”

It is hard to know what North Korea meant by the references in its statement that its next nuclear test would be of a different nature. It could indicate that the country will attempt to show that it can manufacture a warhead small enough to fit on a missile, though that technology of miniaturization is extremely difficult.

It could also mean that it plans its first test of a uranium weapon, created from a new uranium-enrichment program that it showed two years ago to a visiting American scientist. The North’s previous two tests used plutonium, harvested from a now-closed nuclear reactor. Uranium enrichment gives the North another pathway to expand its arsenal; American intelligence officials have said they believe the North has enough plutonium for roughly 6 to 10 weapons.

The North Korean threat will now almost surely be inherited by Senator , Mr. Obama’s nominee to be secretary of state. Mr. Kerry had earlier been critical of the Bush administration’s handling of the North, saying its focus on the war diverted attention from more dangerous threats.

If approved as secretary, he will have to deal with the question of whether the Obama administration, by focusing on Iran and refusing to reward the North for its periodic threats, tantrums and tests, has made a similar error. While there have been periodic efforts to restart talks with North Korea, they have failed; the most recent one fell apart about a year ago.
583 2013-01-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
584 2013-01-26 The jazz circuit in this country has always relied on a network of nightclubs, but there are far fewer now than there once were — and not just in San Francisco, which counts Yoshi’s as the exception that proves the rule. For 30 years SFJazz was nomadic, using spaces like the Herbst Theater and Grace Cathedral. Mr. Kline began thinking about a dedicated home more than a decade ago, eager to solidify an identity and establish a consistent standard of production.

In 2004 he shared his vision with the Bay Area architect Mark Cavagnero. After weighing options like a partnership with the San Francisco Symphony, they set their sights on a property occupied by an auto repair shop in the emergent-chic Hayes Valley neighborhood (and just a block away from Davies Symphony Hall). Mr. Cavagnero began drawing up designs.

But the idea of a purpose-built structure wasn’t necessarily an easy sell with the SFJazz board: as some members pointed out, the organization had flourished for years without it. One thing that helped Mr. Kline’s cause was the focus and passion of his argument about permanence; another was a lead gift of $20 million, which he had secured from an anonymous benefactor.

One core principle for the new building, through many rounds of planning, was that it would be a community center as much as a concert hall. To that end, the glass exterior conveys a literal and conceptual transparency, while the second-floor lobby is bracketed by bars and balconies. (A pair of commissioned murals depicting jazz scenes, by the artists Sandow Birk and Elyse Pignolet, adorn the lobby walls.) The Joe Henderson Lab, a secondary 80-seat performance space that will accommodate workshops and other gatherings, sits at ground level, its goings-on visible to passers-by.

And while a street-level cafe called South at SFJazz won’t open for business until next month, it will be run by Charles Phan, the influential chef and owner of the Slanted Door restaurant group. It will be open all day, serving customers who aren’t SFJazz patrons, which Mr. Kline said was the point.

As for the feel of the auditorium, Mr. Cavagnero said, “I started looking at these Unitarian churches, because they’re places that are about people meeting, and there is no formal power relationship; it’s about everyone being equal.”

He said he drew particular inspiration from Frank Lloyd Wright’s Unity Temple and Louis Kahn’s First Unitarian Church, adopting similar proportions for the hall. Its steeply raked seating plan offers good sightlines, and even a sense of intimacy, from just about every vantage. (One row of balcony seats, which peers down from behind the stage, is likely to become a prized perch for music students looking to get inside the action.)

Mr. Kline, whose own set of references included a range of nonsacramental spaces like the Brooklyn Lyceum and the Fat Cat in Greenwich Village, put it this way: “We wanted the focused feeling of a concert hall but the relaxed proximity of a club.”

The sound in the cubelike auditorium, which was designed with input from the theater consultant Len Auerbach and the acoustician Sam Berkow, runs toward the drier end of the spectrum: generally better for jazz than the reverberant standard of a classical hall, which can drown a group in cymbal wash. Wooden slats running along the walls disperse sound while adding a low-key visual flair.

It will take a little while for sound technicians to get to know the room; during Wednesday’s concert, which featured an honor roll of musicians with established ties to SFJazz, there were some inconsistencies. But the natural drum sound was a winner: Jeff Ballard came across crisply behind Mr. Redman and the tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano on “Blackwell’s Message,” a tune by Mr. Lovano. And there was a pristine hush in the air during a first-time duet by the pianist Chick Corea and the guitarist Bill Frisell.

Wednesday was the kickoff for an opening-week festival that also featured concerts by Mr. Tyner, Mr. Hutcherson, the SFJazz Collective and the organization’s five resident artistic directors this season: Mr. Frisell, the violinist Regina Carter, the pianist Jason Moran, the alto saxophonist Miguel Zenón and the percussionist John Santos.

The programming — not just this week but throughout a 30th-anniversary season that will feature multi-night appearances by the pianist Brad Mehldau, the fado singer Ana Moura, the tabla player Zakir Hussain and the banjoist Béla Fleck — speaks to an inherent curiosity in the SFJazz psyche, an eagerness to tease out unlikely connections. (One immediately talked-about component of Mr. Moran’s residency, in May, will be an improvised collaboration with local skateboarders.)

And to the extent that the SFJazz Center has enabled that breadth of style and approach, it disarms the very comparisons it invites. Jazz at Lincoln Center, taking its cue from Wynton Marsalis, its artistic director, has always used its programming to express a firm conviction about what jazz is (and by strong implication, what it isn’t — or what isn’t it). Mr. Kline and his team aren’t naturally inclined toward that definitive sort of mission, and it’s fortunate that they don’t have to be.

A permanent home is a sign of hard-fought maturity; it demands that an organization be understood on its own terms. That will increasingly be the case for SFJazz — and yet the bicoastal symmetry has its uses, at least for now.

“Jazz at Lincoln Center has been incredibly successful,” said Mr. Redman, “and if SFJazz can be successful, maybe one of the legacies will be that in the foreseeable future, they won’t be the only two. There’ll be other venues, other buildings for jazz that can enter the discussion. I think that would be fantastic.”
585 2013-01-26 Cyclists will be offered a chance to confess to past doping offenses without fear of retribution in an attempt to uncover the full scale of the Lance Armstrong scandal and drug use in the sport. Cycling’s world governing body, known as U.C.I., agreed to introduce a truth commission with the World Anti-Doping Agency, cutting out an independent panel set up to investigate U.C.I.’s links to Armstrong. U.C.I.’s reputation has been damaged by accusations that its leaders covered up suspicious Armstrong test results during his run of Tour de France victories and improperly accepted donations from him totaling $125,000.
586 2013-01-26 Congress has never been an accurate reflection of the country it serves. It remains far whiter, wealthier and more male than the nation’s population. But as their numbers in Congress gradually increase, there is a sense among these newcomers that they are forcing some of their colleagues to rethink gay rights and homosexuality. The presence of openly gay men and women and their families was a factor that many believe was decisive in turning the tide for states where same-sex marriage was legalized by legislatures. Seeing them helped put a human face on a concept that many legislators had thought about only in the abstract.

Yet even with the opportunities gay men, lesbians and bisexuals say their membership in Congress presents, their reception has not been a completely warm one. One of the first acts of the Republican-controlled House was to set aside funds to defend the 1996 law that prohibits the recognition of same-sex marriages because the Obama administration has stopped supporting it. And not everyone seems completely comfortable with their presence, like members of a Christian prayer group who seemed taken aback at a recent Congressional retreat when one noted he was married to a man. But in some ways the most telling sign of the gay lawmakers’ advancement in Congress is the fact that their presence is now a little more routine.

“It’s becoming — ever so slowly — more than a novelty to be a gay member of Congress,” said Representative David Cicilline of Rhode Island. Like all the openly gay, lesbian and bisexual members, Mr. Cicilline is a Democrat.

Representative Jared Polis of Colorado observed that it was not too long ago “when it was just Barney and Tammy.” He was referring to Ms. Baldwin, a member of the House before she was elected to the Senate, and Barney Frank of Massachusetts, who retired but was the first member of Congress to speak openly about his homosexuality.

“But with six of us” in the House, “it’s harder to keep track. And it’s always going to be assumed that there are gays and lesbians in the room,” added Mr. Polis, who has a young son with his partner and is the most senior gay member of the House. Together the six of them will lead a caucus that will champion gay rights and other equal protection issues. The other members will include Mr. Cicilline; Mr. Takano of California; Sean Patrick Maloney of New York; Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, who is bisexual; and Mark Pocan of Wisconsin.

Mr. Pocan was elected to fill Ms. Baldwin’s House seat. In the last Congress, there were four openly gay or lesbian House members and none in the Senate.

The retirement of Mr. Frank, long the dominant voice on gay rights in Congress, also opens the door to some of the newer, fresher faces to take more visible and influential roles. “Barney Frank, who we all know and love, is one of those larger-than-life personalities,” Mr. Polis said. “But certainly the way I’d approach this is in a much more collaborative manner.”

Seven out of 535 is still relatively small. It equals just over 1 percent of the seats in the House and Senate.

“Seven isn’t great,” conceded Denis Dison, a senior strategist with the Victory Fund, which works to elect openly gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered people to public office.

Mr. Dison said he had recently added up the numbers of people who have served in Congress since the country’s birth. It added up to nearly 12,000, he said, and he can still count on both hands the number of those who were openly gay. “But there was an amazing leap forward in 2012 relative to history,” Mr. Dison added. “And in 2014 if two or three or four more out candidates are elected, this is not going to seem as big an accomplishment.”

The makeup of the Republican-controlled House shows just how much of a climb gay rights supporters face. The Human Rights Campaign said that it counts only 184 of 435 members as solid supporters on the issue. By contrast, it counts 220 — a majority — as opponents of gay rights.

In the Senate, the group says it considers 42 members opposed to gay rights and 42 in favor.

And the new gay members say there have been awkward moments. Mr. Pocan said that when he was at a recent retreat for new members, representatives from a Christian organization stopped in to ask him if he would be interested in attending one of their prayer groups. One of them asked him if his wife had accompanied him to the retreat. He is married and wears a ring.

“I said, ‘No, but my husband did,’ ” he recalled. An awkward pause followed. “Then she said, ‘Well, we have more offices to go to now.’ ”

For some of the gay members, their freshman orientation sessions were a reminder of just how unequally the law treats them, since the entity that cuts their paychecks and provides benefits — the United States government — is barred from recognizing their relationships.

“They would be explaining what your benefits were, then all of a sudden this embarrassed look would flash across their face like, ‘Oh, sorry. I guess this doesn’t apply to you,’ ” Mr. Maloney said.

At a ceremonial swearing-in this month by John A. Boehner, the Republican speaker of the House, standing alongside Mr. Maloney were his partner of 20 years and their three adopted children.
587 2013-01-26 Sports are the television industry’s bulwark against rapid technological change: while the companies fear cord-cutting by customers who can cobble together a diet of TV on the Internet, they rest a little easier knowing that former customers would be hard-pressed to find their favorite teams live online.

Pretty much everybody in the business agrees that the overall costs are outrageous. Nobody has an easy solution.

The latest example of this is likely to come on Monday when the Dodgers’ owners are expected to announce a 20- to 25-year deal to create a regional sports network with Time Warner Cable. The cost per subscriber in Southern California is likely to be between $4 and $5 a month, though Time Warner Cable will swallow some of the amount itself.

In assessing the impending Dodgers deal, Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at Nomura Securities, wondered earlier this week “if we have reached the top of the sports rights bubble.”

But while the price is steep, the alternative might have been worse; the other bidder, , could have turned around and charged Time Warner Cable even more per subscriber.

“When a team sees their rights fees, and therefore the costs to consumers, rise more than sixfold, as is rumored, for the exact same games that they got last season, that’s an unsustainable model,” said Dan York, who oversees DirecTV’s decisions to carry and not carry networks. Yet Mr. York said DirecTV hopes to continue to carry the Dodgers in the years to come.

As both he and his counterparts at Time Warner Cable know, the games are popular with a segment of its customer base.

, knowing the same thing, acquired a 49 percent stake in the -branded YES Network for nearly $2 billion two months ago. News Corporation is planning a national rival to ESPN, tentatively named Fox Sports 1, joining other competitors like , which has the one-year-old NBC Sports Network, and , which has the CBS Sports Network. The has its own network, which clawed its way onto all the major distributors’ lineups despite costing nearly $1 per subscriber per month. An increasing number of college conferences have their own television homes, as well.

For the most part, all of these networks are requirements, not options for cable customers. (Some distributors charge extra for packages of sports channels for die-hard fans, but the big networks remain in the packages that most customers get.) Some games are hugely popular: On the high end of the ratings, ’s “Sunday Night Football” averaged 21.4 million viewers this season. But Dodgers games, like those of many local teams, were lucky to garner 100,000 viewers on any given day.

But analysts and industry critics say that if anything ever causes distributors to try more of an “à la carte” model of pricing, it’s sports programming.

“The cable industry has done everything it can to bundle programming and force consumers to buy things they don’t want,” said Gene Kimmelman, a former Justice Department antitrust lawyer. “Finally, one piece of their bundle has become so expensive that it may finally force the cable industry to shift gears and split the bundle out of fear of pricing its own customers out of the market.”

Some executives at the distributors privately agree. They talk of a bubble caused by the high license fees commanded by sports leagues, and demanded by the networks that pay those fees. They say they want to keep costs down, and some have even threatened to drop low-rated channels from their lineups. But they continue to agree to pay more and more for sports.

Chris Bevilacqua, an investor and consultant who has spearheaded the creation of several college networks, said, “If consumers were that upset by the costs, they’d be dropping their cable subscriptions in droves.”

To date, that is not happening. Cable alternatives like Aereo (a service that streams broadcast networks via the Internet for a small monthly price) are sprouting up, but none are stealing share from the distributors that have been around for years. In fact, over the last two years ESPN has signed new long-term deals with seven of the top ten distributors in the country.

What is more common are customers who lower their monthly bill, albeit temporarily, by leaping from one distributor to another. Verizon FiOS, perhaps testing the waters, announced a sports-free package of channels this week that is $15 cheaper than a similar package with sports.

Along with regional sports networks and the ESPNs of the world, sports costs are baked into the television industry through the deals that distributors make to carry local broadcasters’ television signals. If a distributor is not willing to pay what a CBS-affiliated station wants them to pay, for instance, its customers may miss out on the Super Bowl, which is Feb. 3 on CBS.

Companies are rarely willing to take that risk as nothing provokes the public quite like missing a sporting event. Time Warner Cable’s blackout of MSG Networks, which carries the , rankled thousands of customers last year; Gov. eventually put pressure on both companies to make the deal that ended the blackout.

David Goodfriend, the chairman of the Sports Fan Coalition, said sports leagues were the root of the problem, because they “get exemptions from federal antitrust laws so they can legally collude and drive up prices for television coverage of the games.” The coalition wants to cut what it calls “vast public subsidies.”

regulators have not shown a special interest in the subject. When Mr. Malone, speaking to The Los Angeles Times, brought up government intervention in sports rights costs, he said that “usually markets have a way of correcting themselves.”
588 2013-01-26 The Northern Ireland police have said that Mr. Adams is not a target in their seeking the audiotapes. The family of one suspected I.R.A. informer described by Ms. Price as having been executed has called for Mr. Adams’s arrest.

Mr. Adams expressed sorrow this week at the news of Ms. Price’s death.

“She endured great hardship during her time in prison in the 1970s,” he said.

Ms. Price spoke often of the personal toll of her terrorist activities: years of depression, alcohol and drug abuse, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Among the suspected informers she drove to their executions, she said, was a longtime family friend. In prison, she staged a 203-day hunger strike in which her jailers force-fed her every day through rubber tubing.

Suffering from tuberculosis and other ailments, Ms. Price was released from prison on humanitarian grounds in 1981 after serving seven years of a life sentence.

Ms. Price told interviewers that she might have spared herself and her victims had she known that the struggle would end with a peace that left Northern Ireland’s Catholics, in her view, where it had started: under British rule.

“When we starved together on hunger strike,” she wrote in a 2004 essay in Fortnight, an Irish journal, “it was not to ‘move the process forward,’ it was not for seats in a British government.” It was, she said, “to rid this land of any British interference.”

Ms. Price married Mr. Rea in 1983 and had two children with him. Mr. Rea, who portrayed an I.R.A. hit man in the 1992 film “The Crying Game,” spoke only obliquely about his wife’s past.

“You can’t be born in the north of Ireland and not be political,” he told the British newspaper The Evening Standard in 1992. “The situation there is a pollution of your thinking.”

Dolours Price was born in Belfast on June 21, 1951, into a family steeped in Irish republican politics. Her father, Albert, was an I.R.A. founding member. “My father never saw his firstborn child because she was born and died while he was interned,” she wrote.

An aunt, Bridie Price, lost both hands and her eyesight when a bomb she was assembling accidentally blew up. Her sister Marian, who was among the 10 I.R.A. members involved in the 1973 London bombings, was released from prison in the early ’80s but rearrested several years ago on charges of plotting an attack on the government.

Ms. Price was a recent college graduate and training to be a teacher when she enlisted in the I.R.A. in the early 197os. She was one of the first women assigned to carry out an armed attack and was selected for the London mission in part, she said in an interview, because she was a pretty young woman and had no arrest record.

Ms. Price’s marriage to Mr. Rea ended in divorce in 2003. She is survived by their children, Danny and Oscar; her sister Marian and another sister, Clare; and two brothers, Sean and Dino.

Ms. Price remained defiant to the end. She had no truck, she said, with those whose political views had changed over the years. “I am a republican, born and bred, as were my mother and father before me and theirs before them,” she wrote in a letter to an Irish newspaper last year. “I have no time for people who constantly change their position.”

“They are not republicans,” she wrote.
589 2013-01-26 The planned closing of Blessed Sacrament School in the Bronx — a haven amid the housing projects in the Soundview neighborhood — has left many parents and graduates upset. That includes the valedictorian of the class of 1968, who grew up in the projects that now bear her name: Sonia Sotomayor, associate justice of the United States Supreme Court.

“I am heartbroken,” Justice Sotomayor said Friday in a telephone interview from Los Angeles, where she is on tour for “My Beloved World,” her memoir. “You know how important those eight years were? It’s symbolic of what it means for all our families, like my mother, who were dirt-poor. She watched what happened to my cousins in public school and worried if we went there, we might not get out. So she scrimped and saved. It was a road of opportunity for kids with no other alternative.”

Indeed, a glance at some of New York City’s most successful and influential Latino and black professionals and politicians is like a Catholic School All-Star alumni roster. It would include Fernando Ferrer, a former Bronx borough president and acting chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Nelson Roman, recently nominated to be a federal judge; Julissa Reynoso, United States ambassador to Uruguay; Jennifer Lopez; and her former beau, Sean Combs.

The Roman Catholic schools that have been shuttered in impoverished neighborhoods in recent years have produced enough lawyers to staff a white-shoe firm and enough doctors for a top-tier research hospital.

And those schools could make the difference between becoming a judge or appearing before one.

“The incidence of high school dropouts for kids from Catholic grammar schools is dramatically lower,” Justice Sotomayor said in the interview. “The number of kids who go on to higher education is statistically higher. There are wonderful public schools in the city, but our kids don’t often live near them or they haven’t been adequately prepared for entrance to those schools.”

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York announced this week that it would close 24 schools, including 7 elementary schools in the Bronx.
590 2013-01-26 Pictures From the Week in Business
591 2013-01-26 The energy giant Statoil on Friday confirmed the deaths of three of the company’s five employees who had been missing since Islamist militants attacked a gas installation in Algeria last week. Statoil’s chief executive officer, Helge Lund, said the three workers were Tore Bech, 58; Thomas Snekkevik, 35; and Hans M. Bjone, 55. Few hold out more than the slimmest hopes for the remaining two. The company offered no details about the circumstances of their deaths.
592 2013-01-26 A DePuy metallic artificial hip being sold by Johnson & Johnson, the Articular Surface Replacement, had such serious design flaws that even its consultants were urging the company to stop selling it, according to plaintiffs attorneys in opening arguments in a civil lawsuit against DePuy.
593 2013-01-26 The sex scandal might have come out earlier, but Bo Xilai, the Chongqing party chief at the time, and Wang Lijun, his police chief, buried the results of an investigation into the ring, according to news reports. Mr. Bo and Mr. Wang were both felled last year by the fallout from the murder of a British business executive that the party said was arranged by Mr. Bo’s wife; Mr. Bo is expected to be tried soon on a wide range of criminal charges. While the two scandals are unrelated, the airing of the blackmail ring at this time could reflect a decision by the Chinese leadership to highlight other problems in Chongqing under Mr. Bo’s rule.

The ring’s mastermind was a man named Xiao Ye, according to a report by Southern Metropolis Daily on Wednesday that was cited by Xinhua in its Friday article. Three women were used as bait.

The state media reports did not say exactly what the officials gave the men in return for keeping the officials’ involvement secret, but one report said that a company run by Mr. Xiao was involved in a real estate development project in the district that was governed by Mr. Lei.

Mr. Xiao gave the women a list of Chongqing officials whom the women were to contact, Xinhua reported. The women sent text messages, telling the officials that they worked for a local real estate company and had met the official at a banquet.

“Hope we can stay in touch a lot,” they wrote. If the officials said they had no memory of the meeting, the women would invoke the name of a chief executive and pretend to be angry that the official had forgotten the woman already. If the official bit, the woman would continue flirting by text or transmit seductive photos of herself, Xinhua said.

A woman would then meet with the official in an upscale hotel to have tea, coffee or a snack. The official would hand her gifts, like jewelry. At a later rendezvous, when the two were ready to have sex, the woman would make sure to show up at the hotel room with a hidden camera. This happened over and over until the video was clear enough, Xinhua reported. Then, at a later tryst, several men in the ring would show up while the official and the woman were in the middle of having sex. One of the men would pretend to be the woman’s boyfriend and throw a fit. Behind him would be another man pretending to be a private detective. A third man would then show up and say he was a member of a gang.

They would beat up the official and show him the video. Mr. Xiao entered the scene afterward to work out an agreement with the official and assure him that the video would remain buried, as long as the demands were met.

The police first investigated the ring in 2008, after Mr. Lei, fearing the videos would eventually leak out anyway, told senior officials about the ring, the news reports said. But the results were buried or ignored by Mr. Bo and Mr. Wang.
594 2013-01-26 Although the Japanese airlines and suppliers are independent companies, “in Japan there’s a unique relationship between the airlines, the suppliers and the government,” according to the former Boeing official. “It’s cultural. The officials all went to the same schools and have close personal relationships. The government supported the airlines and the industries and they developed together. The government has enormous influence. They all work together.”

As a Boeing vice president and former Boeing Japan president, Nicole Piasecki, told the company magazine in 2008: “These aren’t just relationships with people in business. The Japanese government is a powerful and important part of all economic activity and industrial development. So part of relationship building is negotiating these two important spheres of influence in Japan and understanding it’s all tied together.”

Mr. Aboulafia agreed that Japan was unique. “This is the way things used to be in the days before free trade,” he said. “Japan is the last unreconstructed believer in industrial policy writ large.”

The Japanese External Trade Organization referred questions to the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which had no immediate comment.

In response to my questions, Boeing declined to address the specific choice of GS Yuasa for the 787 batteries, but said, “In general, internal and external suppliers of the 787 program were selected based on their ability to do the work with the high quality, affordability and reliability that customers expect from Boeing and that Boeing demands of its partners.” Boeing added that “GS Yuasa provides the batteries under subcontract to Thales,” the French company responsible for the 787’s electrical systems, but confirmed that Boeing approved the choice and that all subcontractors had to meet Boeing’s quality standards.

Nonetheless, there’s circumstantial evidence to support suspicions that quality and price may not be the only factors affecting the choice of Boeing’s Japanese partners. Japan’s market for commercial aircraft is dominated by Boeing to a degree unrivaled by any other country. Over the last decade, Boeing supplied over 80 percent of the aircraft ordered by Japanese customers. The nation’s flagship airline, Japan Airlines, has never ordered a plane from Airbus, Boeing’s rival. The Japanese carrier All Nippon Airways flew the 787’s maiden commercial flight and has placed an initial order for 50 aircraft. Boeing said that over the last 50 years, Japanese carriers had ordered 900 Boeing aircraft, making Japan one of its top markets by dollar volume.

Airbus has struggled to gain traction in the Japanese market. Evidently taking a page from the Boeing playbook, it said it invested an estimated $4.6 billion with Japanese suppliers for its jumbo A380. But $4.6 billion is a drop in the bucket compared with Boeing’s spending over the decades. Airbus has since booked four orders for the A380 from the low-cost Japanese carrier Skymark Airlines. Airbus has long accused the Japanese government of engaging in improper subsidies to Boeing; an Airbus executive called the 787 the most heavily subsidized civil aircraft in history.

China hasn’t signed the Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft, and aviation analysts have been watching closely to see if it will follow Japan’s lead or embrace a free trade approach. Airbus has invested more heavily than Boeing in China, where Airbus built its first assembly line outside of Europe. But so far, its market share in the rapidly growing Chinese market has remained about the same as Boeing’s. China is also trying to develop its own domestic aircraft industry to compete with Boeing and Airbus.

Boeing patronage has certainly brought benefits to Japan. Its three giant “heavy” industries — Mitsubishi, Kawasaki and Fuji — have been significant partners with Boeing since the development of the 767. According to Boeing, they supply major components of the 767 and 777 airframes and were closely involved in the 777’s design. The company said its Japanese partners designed and developed 35 percent of the 787 airframe structure, including the main wing box, which is the first time Boeing has ever entrusted such a critical design component to another company. Under their agreements with Boeing, they produce components almost exclusively for Boeing. Mitsubishi is now manufacturing its own regional jet thanks in part to what it learned from working with Boeing.

Boeing said that more than 65 Japanese companies were suppliers for both commercial and military products. Boeing said it directly or indirectly employed 22,000 people in Japan, or 42 percent of the country’s aerospace work force. Boeing also has close ties to Japan’s Defense Ministry, and the company said the two had “a long history of working together to meet Japan’s defense needs.”

Besides pursuing aviation and aerospace, Japan announced last July, as part of its “Rebirth of Japan” strategy, that battery technology would be one of its top areas for development and investment. GS Yuasa makes no secret of the fact that its money-losing lithium-ion battery operation has received subsidies from the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, most recently 318.7 billion yen (or about $3.5 billion) to begin mass production of lithium-ion batteries for hybrid electric vehicles. (Japan is hardly the only country subsidizing the battery industry. A123 Systems, a manufacturer of lithium-ion batteries based in Massachusetts, filed for bankruptcy last year despite a $249 million grant from the Energy Department.)

Landing the 787 contract was a huge boost for GS Yuasa and for Japan’s efforts in aviation technology. Though not well known outside of Japan, the company describes itself as Japan’s leading manufacturer of batteries and said it had supplied lithium-ion batteries for over 50 satellites “without anomaly or failure.” Still, this was its first effort in commercial aviation. “I had never heard of Yuasa in the aviation context,” Mr. Aboulafia said. GS Yuasa has since been chosen to supply lithium-ion batteries for the International Space Station. Although Pratt & Whitney nominally chose the company, Boeing is the prime contractor on the space station.

There were better-known and more experienced suppliers of lithium-ion batteries for aviation uses when GS Yuasa was chosen, including the Saft Group of France, Mr. Aboulafia said. Saft describes itself as “the premier battery supplier to the aviation industry,” and Airbus is using Saft lithium-ion batteries for its new A350 aircraft.

GS Yuasa may well have been the best choice for the 787. Still, all of this raises the question of whether GS Yuasa was chosen to design and manufacture the 787 batteries solely on the criteria of “price, quality and delivery” called for by the World Trade Organization agreement, or whether other political and commercial interests played a role. The latter “sounds all too plausible to me,” Mr. Aboulafia said. “That doesn’t mean they’re incompetent. The Japanese respect engineering expertise. You can’t argue that the Japanese heavy industries shouldn’t have played a role in the design and development of the 787. So far, their work has been very good.”

And any questions about GS Yuasa may be premature. Although the batteries are suspected in the fires that grounded the 787 fleet, no one yet knows for sure. Both Thales, the French company responsible for the broader electrical system, and Securaplane, an American subsidiary of the British engineering firm Meggitt that makes the battery chargers, are also being investigated.

But whatever the outcome, experts said that with so many lives at stake, the design and manufacture of new aircraft should be based solely on legitimate issues of cost and quality, and the selection process for suppliers should be transparent and untainted by other commercial or political concerns.

“The greatest enemy of good aircraft is people who interfere with the freedom to shop for the highest quality,” Mr. Aboulafia said.
595 2013-01-26 WASHINGTON — Senator Saxby Chambliss, the Georgia Republican who helped lead efforts to find a bipartisan deficit reduction compromise, announced on Friday that he would retire at the end of 2014, a decision likely to set off a battle on the Republican Party’s right flank for a successor.

Already, organizations backed by the Tea Party were stirring interest in a primary challenge for Mr. Chambliss over his embrace of new revenues as a part of any comprehensive deficit package. Representatives Tom Price and Paul Broun, two Republican doctors and ardent conservatives from Georgia, had expressed interest in a possible challenge.

But without Mr. Chambliss in the picture, the Senate contest in Georgia could shape up to be a battle royale on the right. Other possible candidates could include Herman Cain, a failed presidential candidate, and Karen Handel, a former Georgia secretary of state who ran for governor in 2010 with the backing of Sarah Palin. Ms. Handel lost that contest but went on to a senior position at the Susan G. Komen for the Cure breast cancer foundation, where she championed a controversial move to withhold financing for Planned Parenthood cancer screenings.

In a statement, Mr. Chambliss took pains to say he did not fear losing a primary challenge.

“Lest anyone think this decision is about a primary challenge, I have no doubt that had I decided to be a candidate, I would have won re-election,” he said. “In these difficult political times, I am fortunate to have actually broadened my support around the state and the nation due to the stances I have taken. Instead, this is about frustration, both at a lack of leadership from the White House and at the dearth of meaningful action from Congress.”

Mr. Chambliss lifted his public stature in 2011 as one of three Republican senators in the “Gang of Six” hashing out a deficit reduction plan that the group hoped would capture broad appeal. Along with Senators Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and Mike Crapo of Idaho, both Republcians, Mr. Chambliss cemented strong bonds with Democratic deficit negotiators and ultimately embraced a framework that would include increases in revenues and cuts to entitlement programs to get the deficit in check.

But despite dozens of closed-door tutorials, secret retreats and symposiums, the Gang of Six failed to bring on board enough senators in both parties to force Democratic and Republican leaders to adopt its principles. It did elicit a strong backlash on the Republican right.

Democrats insisted they would make a run at his seat.

“Georgia will now offer Democrats one of our best pick-up opportunities of the cycle. There are already several reports of the potential for a divisive primary that will push Republicans to the extreme right. Regardless, there’s no question that the demographics of the state have changed and Democrats are gaining strength. This will be a top priority,” said Guy Cecil, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
596 2013-01-26 The result was there for the 31-year-old Swiss icon and everyone else to see on a cool Friday night in Rod Laver Arena as Murray advanced to the Australian Open final with a five-set victory in this city where it was hard to believe that it had been blowing Sahara hot just the day before.

Federer — in an unusually feisty, palpably hungry mood — often played like the Federer in our mind’s eye, leaping high to flick backhand smashes, wrong-footing Murray with his forehand and slapping exquisitely timed half volleys on the baseline that still — after all these years — managed to surprise Murray (the repeated Federer drop shots were a different matter).

Those who would read decline into this defeat had best watch the highlight reel again closely.

But his brilliance and energy came in waves while Murray was a more constant force.

Federer, not Murray, seemed to be the one always pushing, even straining, to keep pace, and perhaps it was that point-in, point-out burden that explains why this match — rare in an age of collegiality at the top — developed a genuine edge: Oaths and dark looks included.

After dropping the first set, Federer came back to win the second.

After losing the third, he found himself two points from defeat on Murray’s serve and then with a few brilliant swipes of his racket, put himself in position to win the fourth.

But the fifth set — beautifully poised to become an exclamation point — devolved into something more understated as Murray broke early, took a quick 3-0 lead and maintained his edge (and most of his cool) to win, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2, in precisely four hours.

The anticlimactic finish should not detract from Murray’s achievement. Though he now leads their career series 11-9, he was 0-3 until Friday in Grand Slam tournament play: losing the 2008 United States Open final, the 2010 Australian Open final and the Wimbledon final last year.

“I’ve obviously lost some tough matches against him in the slams, so to win one, especially the way that it went tonight, was obviously nice,” Murray said.

Murray did beat Federer in the Olympic final last year, also played at Wimbledon, but the victory on Friday came in a pro-Federer atmosphere that left one wondering whether they should not have handed out cowbells and Swiss chocolates at the gate.

“I didn’t realize they played the Australian Open in Zurich,” a British spectator remarked.

Murray’s reward for this road victory was a place in the final on Sunday against Novak Djokovic, the No. 1 seed who had the evening off while the second-seeded Federer and third-seeded Murray played deep into the night.

“I’m going to be ready for pain,” Murray said.

So he should be considering his and Djokovic’s supreme defensive skills and their consistency off the ground.

This will be a rematch of the grueling Australian Open semifinal match last year that Djokovic won in five sets on his way to defending his title.

This will also be a rematch of the United States Open final last year, where Murray won in five more sets to take his first Grand Slam singles title and where some rallies were long enough to generate nervous laughter in Arthur Ashe Stadium.

Conventional wisdom says that Murray should swing more freely as a major champion, but Djokovic has now won 20 straight matches in Melbourne and has been, on balance, the world’s best player on hard courts over the last two seasons.

“Obviously Novak goes in as the favorite, I would think, even though Andy beat him at the U.S. Open,” Federer said.

Murray said he had “no idea” whether his victory in New York would help him.

“I would hope so,” he said. “The task isn’t any easier. I’m obviously playing Novak again on this court. I mean, this has been his best court for sure. So I’m aware of how tough it will be to win the match.”

They have been aware of each other’s talents since they began facing each other in their early teens in European junior competitions. Born one week apart in May 1987, they are now both 25 years old and appear set to face each other across many more nets in the seasons to come.

Murray did not drop a set until facing Federer, but he will have one less day of rest than Djokovic because of the Australian Open’s longstanding policy of splitting the men’s semifinals into separate sessions in order to increase revenue. But the extra day has not proved particularly advantageous to recent finalists, and Murray looks remarkably fit this year.

Against Federer he was the more convincing and intimidating server: hitting 21 aces to Federer’s five and also winning 63 percent of the points off his second serves to Federer’s 42 percent.

That last figure was, of course, a tribute to Murray’s returning, and in another twist, Murray also had 21 forehand winners off his traditionally weaker wing compared with Federer’s 18.

“I think he made things more difficult for me because in the past, even though he served well, I had the impression I returned better against him,” Federer said. “I regret that a bit, but I think he found the zones very well tonight, and perhaps he won the match for that reason.”

There were many emotional peaks on Friday, but the summit came late in the fourth set with Murray serving for the match at 6-5.

Murray won the first point of the game after an extended rally with a forehand passing shot. As the ball flew past, Federer glared in Murray’s direction and appeared to swear. If so, it was hardly Federer’s first oath of the evening and it was unclear why he was barking toward Murray.

Murray took notice, then twisted away, pursed his lips and nodded his head repeatedly.

“We just looked at each other one time,” Federer said. “That’s O.K., I think, in a three-and-a-half-hour match. We were just checking each other out for a bit. No, I mean, that wasn’t a big deal for me. I hope not for him.”

Murray also minimized the incident. “I wasn’t that surprised,” he said. “I mean stuff like that happens daily in tennis matches. You know, in sport, the stuff that some people say on football pitches and in basketball and all sorts of sports. I mean, it was very, very mild in comparison to what happens in other sports.”

Asked to repeat what Federer said, Murray declined. “It’s not relevant what was said,” he answered. “People will want to make a big deal of it, and it isn’t really a big deal.”

Perhaps not on a night when there were so many fast-twitch exchanges, so many clutch serves and so many creative solutions to tennis trouble. But Federer’s angry shout was certainly an indication of how much winning this semifinal mattered to him despite all his victories past.

Depriving him of the pleasure required the full force of Murray’s mature talent, and it was quite a sight.
597 2013-01-26 Still, the optimism that has pervaded the market in recent weeks is a drastic change from recent years. Until recently, many investors had continued to shy away from stocks in the face of a trio of hovering problems — the potential breakdown of the , fears of a stalling Chinese economy and political brinkmanship in Washington that threatened to drive the economy into a new recession.

One after another, these threats appear to have dissipated. This week Congress found at least a short-term way around the nation’s , sidestepping Republican threats to let the government default when it reached a self-imposed borrowing limit in February or March.

As the fog of crisis has cleared, investors have more clearly focused on the cascade of good economic data pointing to a growing housing market, shrinking unemployment and corporate earnings that were stronger than expected.

“The last few weeks represent the belief that there will be no existential threat to any large global economy in 2013,” said Nicholas Colas, the chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx group.

Jim Cole, a 52-year-old employee at the Bank of the West in , had most of the money in his individual account in cash at the end of 2012 as he awaited a bad outcome to the fiscal negotiations in Washington. Since Congress reached its agreement, he has put almost all of that money to work in stocks.

“I just bought some more stock this morning,” Mr. Cole said Friday. “There doesn’t seem to be this swirl of impending doom hanging over the U.S. economy or the world economy looking out six to 12 months from now.”

The optimism about the economy and corporate profits has helped fuel eight straight positive days for the S. & P. 500, the longest such run since 2004. The S.& P. 500 finished Friday up 8.14 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,502.96.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 70.65 points, or 0.5 percent, to 13,895.98, near its high. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index climbed 19.33 points, or 0.6 percent, to 3,149.71, still well below its peak in 2000.

There is no surefire data to use to gauge the behavior of retail investors. Some of those who left stock-focused mutual funds in recent years have put the money instead into specific stocks or , which hold baskets of stocks. But analysts agree that most indicators point to rising confidence in the market.

The level of bullishness among small investors has nearly doubled just since mid-November, according to a weekly survey conducted by the American Association of Individual Investors.

In the last three weeks, the market data company Lipper reported that $14.9 billion had gone into all stock-focused mutual funds, the most in any three-week period since 2001. Mutual funds focused specifically on American stocks have collected $6.8 billion since the new year, the most in all but one comparable period since the financial crisis.

This comes after investors had removed $416 billion from stock-focused mutual funds since the start of the financial crisis, according to Lipper. Those outflows continued even as the market climbed over the last few years.

Many retail investors leaving stocks have put their money into bonds, which have historically been less risky. There is now concern that those people could face losses if professional investors sell their bonds and buy stocks, which would push up interest rates and make current bond holdings less valuable. Interest rates were higher on Friday. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 27/32, to 97 4/32 and the yield rose to 1.95 percent from 1.85 percent late Thursday.

Since the market bottomed in March 2009, professional investors have bid up the price of American stocks, partly in response to bumper profits at American companies. The Federal Reserve has also tried to encourage investors to move into riskier assets like stocks by pushing interest rates lower, which makes bank deposits and new bonds less attractive. The S.& P. 500 is close to its nominal high of 1,565 but remains below its record high — reached in 2000 — after adjusting for inflation and taking dividends into account.

But many investors have been hesitant about entering the market because of the slow recovery of the economy. Now, a number of recent data points suggests that the recovery may be gaining traction. This week, new claims for unemployment benefits fell to the lowest level in five years.

Even many optimistic strategists say that a short-term break from the market rally is likely until there are more indications that the economy is growing. And given that January is historically a strong month for stocks, more bearish analysts have said the recent rally is likely to fade. One drag on growth could come from the recent increase in payroll .

There is also a sizable contingent of investors who think that the and fiscal position still represent significant threats.

But Russ Koesterich, the chief investment strategist at , said that the current threats were “mundane” in comparison to what investors faced the last few years. “We’re not talking about big crises anymore,” he said.
598 2013-01-27 Novak Djokovic beat Andy Murray, 6-7, 7-6, 6-3, 6-2, to win the Australian Open....
599 2013-01-27 Environmental activists and gun control advocates have been calling for colleges and other institutions to withdraw investments in oil companies and gun manufacturers.

But even if the goal of divestment may be worthy, is it an effective method of bringing about change?
600 2013-01-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
601 2013-01-27 The fear that technology might threaten our survival is is often dismissed as outlandish. But it is cause for concern....
602 2013-01-27 The company's offerings have been certified by the Marine Stewardship Council as responsibly harvested....
603 2013-01-27 Dr. Emily Tamara Cooper and Adam Jonathan Janvey were married Saturday evening by Rabbi J. Rolando Matalon at the Lighthouse at Chelsea Piers in New York.

The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which both received M.B.A.’s and where the bride also received a medical degree.

Dr. Janvey, 30, is an associate in the San Francisco office of TPG, an investment management firm in Fort Worth. She helps determine in which health care companies to invest clients’ funds. She graduated summa cum laude from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.

She is the daughter of Holly Y. Cohen and Kenneth S. Cooper of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., where the bride’s father is lawyer in private practice. Her mother is a school psychologist for the Philadelphia School District. She is also an adjunct professor in the special education department at St. Joseph’s University and a part-time instructor in the graduate school of education at the University of Pennsylvania, both in Philadelphia.

Mr. Janvey, 31, lives in San Francisco but works as a project manager at the Chicago office of McKinsey & Company, the management consulting firm. He oversees consulting projects for transportation, travel and logistics companies. He graduated from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.

He is a son of Rae G. Janvey and Richard I. Janvey of New York, where the groom’s mother is an independent executive coach and leadership consultant. His father is a partner in Diamond McCarthy, a Texas law firm. He works in its New York office.
604 2013-01-27 Emily Gietl Salas, a daughter of Caroline Wilmerding Rupp of Muttontown, N.Y., and Peter E. Salas of Fernandina Beach, Fla., was married Saturday evening to Daniel Francis Crowley III, the son of Karen Williams Crowley and Mr. Crowley Jr. of Dana Point, Calif., at the Church of the Heavenly Rest in New York. The Rev. Thomas N. J. Synan, an Episcopal priest and the church’s associate rector, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Crowley, 28, is a curator at Acquavella Galleries in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth, and received a master’s in art history from New York University.

Her father is the president and a portfolio manager of the Dolphin Asset Management Corporation, an investment management firm in New York; he works in New York and in Fernandina Beach. Her mother sells residential real estate for Piping Rock Associates in Locust Valley, N.Y. The bride is a stepdaughter of Marianne Perry Salas and of Christopher Foy Rupp.

The bride is a descendant, on her mother’s side, of William Floyd, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, and of Thomas Willett, the first mayor of New York.

Mr. Crowley, 28, is an associate in the financial restructuring group in the New York office of Houlihan Lokey, a Los Angeles investment bank. He graduated from Columbia.

His mother is the director of sales at Sunrise Senior Living in Mission Viejo, Calif. His father is a partner in Spectrum Partners, a management consultancy in Scottsdale, Ariz. He works in Newport Beach, Calif.
605 2013-01-27 “We were anxious to get back into the battle,” said Nick Ryan, a Republican strategist and the founder of the American Future Fund, which started as a small, Iowa-based political committee in 2007 and has grown larger since taking a leading role now against Mr. Hagel. “Postelection we have new battle lines being drawn with the president; he kicks it off with these nominations and it made sense for us.”

Groups like his would have been able to operate freely against Mr. Hagel even before Citizens United. But the ruling has served to erase what had been traditional fears among donors that their involvement in the fight of the day would lead to legal trouble or, for those who prefer to stay anonymous, unwanted public exposure. That confidence, in turn, has helped spur the increase in the number of political organizations that pop up to engage in the big political entanglement of the moment.

American Future Fund was formed under a section of the tax code that allows it to keep its donors secret. It spent more than $20 million seeking to defeat Mr. Obama and the Democrats last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group. Other major conservative groups like Americans for Prosperity — partly financed by the industrialist Koch family — and Crossroads GPS are not involved in the Hagel nomination, but have made it clear that they will continue to combat the president’s agenda on several fronts.

The outside activity is not confined to Republicans. Mr. Obama’s campaign apparatus has transformed itself into a nonprofit political group, though it said it would disclose the names of its donors (and it is not getting involved in the Hagel fight).

After Mr. Obama won re-election in November and Democrats kept their majority in the Senate and made inroads in the House, Republican Party officials and senior strategists with conservative outside groups predicted that some of the big financiers of the larger outside efforts would pull back and reassess their involvement and whether their millions were wasted. But while the donors have said they will insist that the groups they finance find lessons in last year’s losses, their interest and stakes in what happens in Washington have certainly not waned.

For instance, the biggest individual financier of the so-called super PACs that sought to defeat Mr. Obama, Sheldon Adelson, is so invested in the fight over Mr. Hagel that he has reached out directly to Republican Senators to urge them to hold the line against his confirmation, which would be almost impossible to stop against six Republican “yes” votes and a unified Democratic caucus.

Given the more than $100 million he donated to the anti-Obama effort last year, no lawmakers need to be reminded of his importance to their future endeavors. People briefed on his involvement said Mr. Adelson, chairman of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation and a longtime supporter of Israel, was calling in conjunction with the Republican Jewish Coalition, a group he has financed for several years.

In an interview with The Wall Street Journal in December, Mr. Adelson said he was prepared to “double” his investment in politics in the coming year.

But it is unclear whether he is directly financing any of the anti-Hagel advertising. An associate of his, speaking about Mr. Adelson’s thinking on condition of anonymity, said he did not believe that expensive television campaigns are the answer to every political push given that Mr. Obama’s re-election team accomplished so much of its success through online and volunteer efforts.

Citing similar reasons, another major Republican donor, Foster Friess, said in an interview that he had developed his own skepticism over “the whole idea of these multimedia ads from 45,000 feet.” After last year’s losses he said he was devoting most of his resources to an effort he called “Left-Right, Left-Right Forward March,” which finds projects liberals and conservatives can support together, like water purification in developing countries.

Still, he said, “no one in this effort is going to give up the values that they think are important.” For him, that extends to Mr. Hagel, whose “past statements about Israel should be really taken into consideration” Mr. Friess said, adding, “and I would hope they could find a better person to serve in that position.”

Whatever its chances of success, the blitz against Mr. Hagel is of a sort that has generally been reserved for elections and some Supreme Court nominations. The last major cabinet skirmish, over President George W. Bush’s nomination of John R. Bolton as the United States ambassador to the United Nations, had no comparable outside media blitz. Though goaded along by a phone campaign organized by the political action arm of the liberal group MoveOn, Democrats succeeded in blocking him in the Senate, forcing Mr. Bush to appoint him during a congressional recess.

That was before the Citizens United decision.

“This is the first big cabinet fight since Bolton,” said Michael Goldfarb, a strategist for a conservative group opposed to Mr. Hagel called the Emergency Committee for Israel and a founder of a conservative Web site called The Washington Free Beacon, which is running a steady stream of anti-Hagel news articles. “And things have evolved in the last seven years.”

The most mysterious of the new groups is Use Your Mandate. Portraying itself as a gay rights group, it has sent mailers to voters in seven states — including New York, New Jersey, Maryland and Montana — and run television ads against Mr. Hagel in New York and Washington. It has sent out posts on Twitter questioning his gay rights record and asking, “Is this what we worked so hard for?” Established gay rights activists have expressed skepticism about the group’s authenticity.

It has no Web site and it only lists as its address a post office box in New York. But paperwork filed with the Federal Communications Commission link it back to Tusk Strategies, a bipartisan political group founded by Bradley Tusk, a former strategist for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.

In an interview, Mr. Tusk would only identify its financiers as Democratic “gay and L.G.B.T. people who have been active in campaigns around the country.”

Yet federal records show that Use Your Mandate uses Del Cielo Media, an arm of one of the most prominent Republican ad-buying firms in the country, Smart Media, with clients that have included the presidential campaigns of former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah and Senator John McCain of Arizona; the 2010 Senate campaign of Christine O’Donnell, who was known for positions against homosexuality, in Delaware; and, as it happens, the Emergency Committee for Israel.
606 2013-01-27 ZAGREB, Croatia (AP) — Javier Fernandez became the first Spaniard to win the European figure skating title after an exceptional performance in the men’s free skate Saturday.

Carolina Kostner of Italy successfully defended the women’s title, edging 16-year-old Russian Adelina Sotnikova by less than a point to claim her fifth European crown.

Sotnikova led after a sparkling debut in Friday’s short program but could manage only third in the free skate, allowing Kostner, who placed second on both days, to win gold with a personal best score of 194.71 points overall.

Another 16-year-old Russian, Elizaveta Tuktamysheva, placed first in the free skate to allow her to claim the bronze with 188.85 points overall.

Earlier, Fernandez, performing to a Charlie Chaplin medley, had a quadruple toe loop, a quadruple salchow and a quadruple salchow and triple toe loop combination for a personal best 186.07 points, giving him 274.87 overall.

Florent Amodio of France, who led after Thursday’s short skate, had to settle for silver, finishing with 250.53 after placing third in the free skate behind Czech skater Michal Brezina, who claimed the bronze with 243.52 points overall.
607 2013-01-27 I.B.M. is the market leader — the stock that other stocks follow — based on Bespoke’s calculations, which are boiled down into one statistic. That is the likelihood that a stock’s return on the day after its quarterly earnings report matches the direction of the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index over the next five weeks.

Over the last decade, for example, the rise or fall of I.B.M. stock on the day after the company reports earnings has matched the S.& P. 500’s direction 75 percent of the time. That’s the highest percentage for any stock in the index over that period. The comparable figure for Apple is only 37.5 percent.

If those tendencies continue — and that’s a big “if” — bulls have reason to cheer. Both companies issued earnings reports last week, and they received very different reactions in the market. After the close of trading on Tuesday, I.B.M. reported rising profits on a modest decline in revenue, and the market reaction was strikingly positive. I.B.M. shares rose 4.4 percent on Wednesday. If I.B.M. is the market bellwether, it implies that over the next five weeks, the overall market is likely to rise.

Apple, on the other hand, reported earnings after hours on Wednesday, and the market reaction was brutal. Apple’s guidance for 2013 disappointed analysts — its profit was flat although its revenue grew — and its shares fell more than 12 percent on Thursday. But Apple isn’t a bellwether, Mr. Hickey says. Its earnings reports and its returns the next day have not matched the market’s subsequent five-week direction with any regularity.

Looking at the short term, Apple shares have often moved quite independently of the rest of the market, too. On Thursday, for example, the S.& P. 500 was flat for the day despite the steep drop of Apple, which accounts for more than 3 percent of the index. The Dow Jones industrial average, in which I.B.M. has the greatest weight, at more than 11 percent, doesn’t include Apple at all, and it rose slightly for the day. On Wednesday, by contrast, both indexes rose, along with I.B.M. and Apple shares.

Why should the market’s one-day reaction to I.B.M.’s earnings have anything to do with market returns over the next five weeks? Mr. Hickey speculates that I.B.M., which provides sophisticated, integrated digital solutions to business problems, now derives revenue from many of the world’s big companies and accurately reflects the prospects of corporate America. “When I.B.M. is doing well, a lot of the corporations in America are doing well,” he says.

But it’s quite possible that the apparent connection between I.B.M.’s earnings and the overall market direction is nothing more than an anomaly, and may not continue.

That’s the assessment of Burton G. Malkiel, the Princeton economist and author of “A Random Walk Down Wall Street,” the investment book now in its 10th edition. He has found that, for the most part, the stock market does not follow predictable patterns.

“If it did,” Professor Malkiel says, “money managers would be able to beat the market regularly, but the vast majority of them can’t.”

Mr. Hickey says he isn’t sure what to make of the I.B.M.-market connection, either. I.B.M.’s role as a bellwether is plausible because it is such a well-established company and touches so many industries. But other companies that score highly as bellwethers don’t have a reach wide enough to look like natural leaders of the entire market, he says. After I.B.M., his statistics show that the next four companies, in descending order of influence, are Harmon International, the maker of audio and electronic systems; Altera, the semiconductor company; the Ball Corporation, which provides packaging for consumer products and aerospace technologies for commercial and governmental customers; and Cooper Tire and Rubber.

Then again, being a bellwether is an informal designation, and in its original meaning, it wasn’t entirely positive. The word’s etymology makes that clear: a wether is a castrated male sheep, and a bellwether is one of those emasculated sheep with a bell hanging around its neck. Shepherds use bellwethers to lead other sheep around. Writers and market analysts use the word as a metaphor for a leader, and have done so for decades.

Through the years, traders, analysts and journalists have designated many a market bellwether, including United States Steel, General Motors, AT&T, RCA, Chrysler, DuPont, the New York Central Railroad, Consolidated Edison, Intel, Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Citigroup, General Electric and the 30-year Treasury bond. I.B.M. has been called a bellwether, on and off, since at least the 1970s.

PROFESSOR MALKIEL agrees that Apple isn’t a bellwether, but he doubts that any company is. He says he believes in the wisdom of long-term, buy-and-hold investing in low-cost index funds and advises against seeking hidden market patterns caused by bellwethers or much anything else.

Basing the market’s five-week direction on its one-day reaction to I.B.M. earnings is too simple to be plausible, he said. “If you search through data deeply enough you’ll find all kinds of connections,” he said. “But are they real? If you believe this one is, you can go out and bet your money on it. But I can tell you that I won’t be doing that.”
608 2013-01-27 IN 1942, 71 years before last week’s Pentagon decision allowing women on the front lines of combat, the government established the Women’s Army Corps, with Athena as its insignia, and welcomed our country’s first female military recruits.

One of these pioneering women was a corporal from Big Spring, Tex., named Nellie Gray. After the war ended, Gray finished college (with an assist from the G.I. Bill) and moved to , D.C., where she worked for decades at the State Department and the Department of Labor, earning a law degree at night from along the way. Then the social upheavals of the 1970s arrived, the soldier-turned-bureaucrat-turned-lawyer helped found one of America’s most enduring mass movements, establishing an annual protest march that continues to the present day.

That protest is the March for Life, the annual rally against Roe v. Wade.

When she organized the first march, in January 1974, it drew 20,000 anti- marchers to the capital. On Friday, 40 years after Roe and six months after Gray’s death at the age of 88, the marchers numbered in the tens or even hundreds of thousands.

If she had chosen a different political cause, Gray’s trajectory — from soldier to working woman to professional activist — would be a case study for students of second-wave feminism. But the cause she did choose — and in whose service she issued strident attacks on “feminist abortionists” — has endured precisely because it has had a more complicated relationship to female advancement than some cultural stereotypes would suggest.

Those stereotypes link the anti-abortion cause to traditionalist ideas about gender roles — to the belief that a woman’s place is in the home, or at least that her primary identity should be maternal rather than professional. Writing in the Reagan era, the sociologist Kristin Luker argued that this dimension of the debate trumped the question of whether unborn human life has rights: “While on the surface it is the embryo’s fate that seems to be at stake, the abortion debate is actually about the meaning of women’s lives.”

This remains a dominant pro-choice understanding of the abortion conflict — and not without reason, since it finds vindication to this day in the idiot “mansplaining” of amateur gynecologists like .
609 2013-01-27 It is the most ignored — and usually most soporific — moment of any flight: the safety announcement, that pretakeoff ritual that often leads to travelers closing their eyes. Who among us, after all, doesn’t know how to unbuckle a seat belt? Yawn.

Airlines, mind you, don’t see it that way, since they are legally obligated to tell passengers what to do if things go wrong. And they have struggled over the years to keep things interesting, using wisecracking flight attendants as well as deadly serious warnings about emergency slides, water landings and the dreaded “loss of cabin pressure.”

Some carriers have lately stepped up that assault on aviation apathy by showing preflight videos that are a mix of the serious and the surreal. Take, for instance, a new effort by Delta Air Lines, which invites fliers to find various bizarre details in their safety videos — a “What’s wrong with this picture?” approach that includes cameos by a big yellow robot, a tiny suitcase and the semifamous flight attendant known as Deltalina (more on her later).

Mauricio Parise, general manager for marketing communications at Delta, said that the two new videos, which had their debut in November, were meant to illustrate both the airline’s plucky spirit and its continuing need to “make sure that people pay attention.”

“We try to find a way to tell the story, and make it fresh,” he said.

They aren’t the first. In 2007, Virgin America also rolled out a cheeky animated version of the safety announcement, complete with flying fish, matadors and a multitasking nun. The video begins by asking passengers to check out the safety card in the seat pocket in front of them — “Not only does it have pretty pictures, but it has important information” — before bringing up the seemingly inane seat belt reminder.
610 2013-01-27 I had zero interest in Lindsay Lohan. But what an article! A vivid and presumably spot-on picture of the absurdity of the “profession” of Hollywood filmmaking. There is something delightfully voyeuristic and insightful about our access to what goes on behind this screen, where P.R. is so vital and these people are so on the margins that they are willing to expose themselves in print, not just on- screen. But how does this differ from any crazy movie ever made? GRANT WIGGINS, Hopewell, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

Lindsay Lohan doesn’t deserve your scorn. She’s a classic example of “too much, too soon”: too much success and fame arrived in her life long before nature could equip her with the experience and maturity to deal with it. Unfortunately, her story is not unusual. The fate of child actors is usually a sad and cruel one. She doesn’t need punishment so much as salvation. STEVE SINGER, Chicago, posted on nytimes.com

This is the myth of Lindsay Lohan — that she is gifted with a special talent that is hers to employ if she so chooses. Sure, a child actor like Lohan (she appeared in Disney’s remake of “The Parent Trap” at 11) can get by being talented and cute. A teen actress (Lohan broke out in Tina Fey’s “Mean Girls” at 17) can survive being talented and pretty. . . . But a 26-year-old actress can’t just show up and dispense her “gifts.” Performing is a skill, and Lohan does not exercise it. . . . We’re impatient for the comeback portion of her life story to kick in. But that miraculous return would require Lohan to exit the spotlight long enough to actually put in the work of being an actress. By that point, I’m not sure anyone would remember why we cared. And even if we did still care, who is to say she’s still any good? AMANDA HESS, The XX Factor, on slate.com

As Ronen Bergman writes, Peres was the focus of intense pressure from some of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s critics to run against Netanyahu at the head of a center-left opposition ticket. Peres wisely refused, leaving Netanyahu without a serious rival. That has only increased the fawning on Peres from foreign observers who can’t stand Netanyahu. But Peres’s stubborn refusal to give up his illusions about the Palestinians tells us all we need to know about the inevitability of a right-wing victory. If Israel’s Jan. 22 vote is one in which Netanyahu’s real rival is a person who won’t be on the ballot, it should be understood that the reason those who are trying to unseat the Likud are failing has everything to do with Peres’s failed legacy. JONATHAN S. TOBIN, on commentarymagazine.com

True peace will come only through mutual respect. Only when Israel stops teaching lessons, admits the wrongs it perpetrated against the Palestinian people and offers to remedy these wrongs, and when the Palestinians accept such an offer, become magnanimous and forgiving, will there be peace between two peoples who need it for their own very survival. SHAW J. DALLAL, Professor Emeritus of Middle East Studies, Colgate University
611 2013-01-27 “What people count as comfortable is what they get used to,” Shove says, and this becomes obvious when you examine different societies side by side. In 1996, Harold Wilhite, director at the University of Oslo’s Center for Development and Environment, published a paper comparing energy-use cultural norms in , , and Fukuoka, . The two cities are similar in population size, level of industrial development, spending power and average home size. But southern Japan is warmer than southern Norway, and Japanese culture is very different from Norwegian culture.

Wilhite found that Norwegians placed emphasis on something they call koselighet — which roughly translates as “coziness,” but with certain social connotations. Part of koselighet is making your home a place other people want to visit and spend time in. In Oslo, that means making sure nobody thinks your house is cold. Ever. Half the households Wilhite sampled didn’t turn the thermostat down before bed. Nearly 30 percent kept it turned up even when they weren’t home. In Fukuoka, where winters are comparatively mild, there wasn’t a cultural objection to entering cold rooms. In fact, homes in southern Japan usually didn’t have central heating at all. On chilly nights, families gathered on heated rugs, or around a kotatsu — a table with a built-in heat element.

Koselighet also concerns the quality of light. The Norwegians that Wilhite interviewed told him that ceiling lights felt cold. Not one subject used them in the living room, where instead they had incandescent table and floor lamps to create little golden pools throughout the room. On average, Oslo living rooms had 9.6 light bulbs. Meanwhile, in Fukuoka, the living rooms had an average of only 2.5 light bulbs, mostly more energy-efficient fluorescents fitted into the ceiling. There, people prized visibility, and the color of the fluorescent light had no temperature connotation at all.

But Wilhite also noted that cultural understandings of comfort are changing. Even back in 1996, he reported that people in Fukuoka were buying more space heaters, allowing family members to warm up by their lonesome. And they were buying air-conditioners, something that hadn’t been normal, even in a city with hot summers. Although many of Wilhite’s Japanese subjects believed A.C. units to be unhealthful and unpleasant, they were starting to expect their presence in any prosperous, modern home — a byproduct of globalization, according to Shove and other researchers.

Along with air-conditioning, globalization has also helped popularize something called Ashrae 55: a building code created by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, to determine the ideal temperature for large buildings. The standard, which has set thermostats across the globe, is hardly culture-free. It’s based on Fanger’s Comfort Equation, a mathematical model developed in and the in the 1960s and ’70s, which seeks to make a very specific worker comfortable: a man wearing a full business suit.

Consider the impact on office workers in hotter countries, where a thobe or a dashiki might be perfectly acceptable business attire. They might start dressing differently, which makes them less comfortable outside and at home, which in turn makes them more likely to seek out air-conditioning. It also affects women. “In spring, it’s socially expected that women will wear thinner blouses, skirts, open-toed shoes,” Mazur-Stommen says. “But the building temperature is set for men, who are assumed to be wearing long-sleeved shirts and closed-toed shoes year-round. If everyone just dressed appropriately for the weather, we wouldn’t have to heat or cool the building as much.”

Fortunately, the same forces that drive people to consume more can also goad them toward sustainability. Wesley Schultz, a professor of psychology at , San Marcos, has spent the last decade studying why people choose to be more energy-efficient — turning off lights when they aren’t in the room, for instance, or buying Energy Star appliances. Over and over, he has found that the most powerful force for positive change is to tell people how much energy their neighbors are using, and to make sure people know that those neighbors value energy efficiency. People in the United States don’t think this form of peer pressure works, Schultz told me. “But when we actually study them,” he said, “we see they’re wrong.”
612 2013-01-27 The story proper begins only with the emergence of certain modern conventions — the widespread use of standing armies in set-piece battles; the development of legal norms with international applicability — in the 18th and 19th centuries. In this strict sense, the history of guerrilla warfare is no more than two centuries or so old, and in fact Boot’s book becomes a lot more effective once he enters the modern era.

Even then there is a great deal going on — some three separate subjects more or less rolled into one. We get the story of guerrilla warfare, and also an account of how soldiers have tried to combat it. And then, mostly at a tangent to the other two, there is the history of terrorism.

The effort to link guerrillas and terrorists does not come off. One has the impression that Boot himself was uneasy about the connection, because he begins with some sensible observations not only about the similarities between the two categories, but also about the differences. True, sometimes insurgents turn to terror tactics: EOKA in Cyprus, the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Tamil Tigers are three fairly recent examples. It is also common for powerful armies to decry their weaker opponents as terrorists — this is how the Wehrmacht described European partisans during World War II. But in reality, the two categories often have very little to do with each other. The history of 19th-century anarchist terrorism in Europe, for one, should not really be linked to a history of 19th-century insurgency. More recently, the Red Army Faction in West Germany and 17 November in Greece were terrorist groups, not insurgencies.

As for counterinsurgency, we certainly need a good intellectual history of it. The story of how and what American soldiers, among others, have learned, and forgotten, about fighting insurgencies is unquestionably important. Boot’s cast of characters consists mostly of fairly familiar figures — wise men like the French marshal Hubert Lyautey, the British general Sir Gerald Templer, the quiet American Edward Lansdale and so on, ending up with David H. Petraeus himself. For many readers these portraits will serve as effective introductions. But the wider military cultures they sprang from, and the reasons they were sometimes listened to and sometimes not, get short shrift. There is nothing here, for example, to challenge the conventional image of General Petraeus as the man who put the United States military back on the proper path in fighting insurgencies, nor any means of understanding why he should have then apparently changed course when he moved to the C.I.A. in favor of a militarization of intelligence and extensive use of targeted assassinations. This shift is not incompatible with his earlier policies, but it is not easy to square with them either.

“Invisible Armies” really has two authors, sometimes working together, sometimes not. There is the popular historian, thoughtful, smart, fluent, with an eye for a good story and the telling quotation. And there is the policy adviser, the senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. The historian can see questions from different angles and is generally careful not to take sides. The policy adviser wants to be useful and to make the deployment of American power more effective. This is what explains the emphasis, in the last part of the book, on fighting Islamic radicalism. It also explains Boot’s constant emphasis on sensible versus misguided ways to fight.

“Invisible Armies” thus forms part of a conversation that American policy makers, commentators and historians have been having with one another since Elbridge Colby’s day as they grapple with the burdens of power. Its tenor is moderately upbeat: Boot believes lessons can be learned if only we look at history the right way. The war in the shadows may be here to stay, but we should not despair, he insists, because even now the odds are against the insurgents, provided armies tackle the job with patience, good sense and a consciousness of the importance of winning over hearts and minds. Terror, after all, is often self-defeating. I think Elbridge Colby would have approved.
613 2013-01-27 A search detected five deleted video files of child pornography, two of them showing Nicole and her father. In the spring of 2006, he was charged with a new crime — producing the videos — and he fled the country. At this point, the police didn’t realize that Nicole’s father had also distributed the images.

Months later, the police said they had no leads on her father, so Nicole went on television to ask the public for any tips that might help them find him. A police officer in involved in tracking child pornography around the world saw the broadcast and recognized Nicole as an older version of the girl in the notorious videos. The Toronto officer set off an alert that reached the police in Nicole’s hometown, informing them that she was the victim in a major pornography-distribution case.

The alert brought the local detective to Nicole’s house on that December day, to confirm that she was in fact the girl in the pictures that circulated around the globe. “It was the worst moment of my life,” Nicole said of seeing the pictures of herself. “In a way, I didn’t remember it being that bad with my father — and then I saw that it was. Knowing that other people, all over, had seen me like that, I just froze. I could hear my mother crying, but I couldn’t cry.”

Nicole’s appearance on TV produced a tip that eventually led the police to arrest her father in . But by going public, she had inadvertently exposed her identity to thousands of men who for years had collected her images. On one Web site with an American flag design, on a thread that continued for four years, commenters described in detail the acts of rape and bondage Nicole had experienced. One called the videos “legendary.” Another called her “an eager participant” because her father instructed her to smile and talk in the videos. “The fact remains that she is the most searched for, sought after and downloaded ever,” a third commenter wrote. “There are hours of video out there. It’s just too bad there are not more willing like her.”

For Nicole, knowing that so many men have witnessed and taken pleasure from her abuse has been excruciating. “You have an image of yourself as a person, but here is this other image,” she told me. “You know it’s not true, but all those other people will believe that it’s you — that this is who you really are.”

Until the 1970s, magazines with titles like Lolita were rife with sexual images of minors and routinely sold alongside adult pornography at red-light bookstores. In 1978, Congress made child pornography illegal, and four years later, the upheld a state law banning its sale. The court’s decision changed the market along with the law. “The commercial distributors started to go out of business,” said Kenneth Lanning, a retired agent who consulted on child pornography cases for decades. For a time, distribution and production plummeted. But then came the Internet. By the mid- to late 1990s, Lanning said, “there was a way for people seeking it to find each other and send images.”

A decade later, the Justice Department interviewed veteran experts like Lanning for a 2010 report, and concluded that “the market — in terms of numbers of offenders, images and victims” — was growing to a degree described as “overwhelming” and “exponential.” In the early-Web year of 1994, only 61 defendants were sentenced in federal court for child-pornography offenses; in 2011, 1,880 were, a 30-fold increase. The federal definition of child pornography extends to young people up to age 18, but the 2010 report noted that it had become more common for images to involve young children, as well as violence and sadism.

Precise numbers of child-pornography viewers are hard to come by. estimates that there are at least hundreds of thousands of Web sites with child pornography worldwide. Child-pornography consumers are even more likely to swap with one another via hidden networks. Using a tool developed at the , , in 2009, police have logged close to 22 million public I.P. addresses offering child-pornography pictures or videos via peer-to-peer file sharing, which allows users to download content from one computer to another; almost 10 million of the I.P. addresses were located in the United States. Many of the users shared only a single illegal image, perhaps downloaded inadvertently, but others offered collections of hundreds or thousands of pictures.

To gain access to a group of downloaders, a recent arrival may have to prove himself by delivering new material. Often this involves digitally altering an existing image, but in some cases, it can also mean seducing children to create new pictures to trade. The most desired series zoom around the Internet. “A lot of these guys have a collector’s mentality,” Lanning said. The pictures Nicole’s father took became must-haves and went viral.

For Nicole, knowing that her photos were circulating was an unrelenting burden. It was hard to concentrate at school and hard to forge new friendships. She stayed close to just a few friends from her church. Her family is deeply Christian — “I’ve found comfort in my faith,” she says — and she was home-schooled for a few years as a younger child. Her friends from church were the only ones she told about her father. “Everyone else I held at arm’s length,” she told me when we met this summer at her lawyer’s office. Nicole speaks deliberately and carefully, and on that day she was wearing an outfit that matched her coral nail polish and perfectly applied makeup. “But other kids found out after my father was charged. I remember walking down the hallways and thinking I could hear people saying, ‘There’s the girl who was raped by her dad.’ ”

In her junior year, Nicole transferred to a community college with a program for students who wanted to earn an associate’s degree while finishing high school. “At the time I’d have said I went for academic reasons, but looking back, it was also to isolate myself,” she said.

Late that spring, Nicole got a series of messages on Myspace from a man who said he had been looking for her for five years. He asked, “Want me to come visit u?” When Nicole blocked him, he wrote to one of her friends on Myspace, telling her that Nicole was a “porn star” — and sending two images. “That’s when I fully realized what it meant for these pictures to be out there,” Nicole said. “I couldn’t get away from it, not really. I started getting paranoid and having .”

The man was arrested and went to prison, but Nicole couldn’t avoid the knowledge that other men were still looking at the sexual photos of her young self. Later that year, she got a letter from the Victim Notification System at the Justice Department. Congress had passed a law in 2004 mandating that crime victims receive notice every time a suspect is arrested or has a court appearance. The letter was addressed to Nicole’s mother and stepfather because she hadn’t yet turned 18; it informed them that a man in had been arrested for possessing a pornographic photo of her. “It just sat there on the counter for days,” Nicole remembered. “We didn’t really know where to put it.” More arrests followed and more letters — piles of them. “We stacked them in a laundry basket in a walk-in closet so I wouldn’t have to see them,” Nicole said. “Then there were more baskets, and we had to move them to the garage. It was really hard for me. I was still scared of my father, but I knew him. These other people, they were strangers, and there were so many of them.”

The piles of letters would eventually connect Nicole with another young woman who had also been abused and then lead them both to court. Back in April 1998, in one of the first investigations into Internet trafficking of child pornography, the F.B.I. started tracking an user, with the handle HAZMAT029, who was posting on an AOL bulletin board service. HAZMAT029 sent 80 illegal pictures to another user, BMR169, along with e-mails that included the message: “do me a favor. get a peice [sic] of paper and wright HI HAZ on it and take a pic of her in nothing but stockings pulled down below her [genitals].” BMR169 e-mailed back pictures of a young girl, her shorts and underwear pulled to the side, sitting on a gray carpet in front of a wooden dresser. Next to her, a note read, “HI HAZ.”

The F.B.I. traced BMR’s AOL account to a suburban house in a small town, and in October of that year, a team of agents arrived with a search warrant. In a basement bedroom, they found the gray carpet and the dresser. They also seized a computer full of illegal images, including pictures that showed the same girl being forced to give oral sex and being raped. The man the F.B.I. suspected was BMR wasn’t home, so the agents showed the face of the child in the photos to his wife and his adult son. Did they recognize the girl?

They did. As they spoke, one of the agents looked out the window of the house and saw the girl playing in the yard across the street. “It’s something I’ll never forget,” he told me.

Amy, as she’s called in the court documents, was BMR’s 9-year-old niece. Shown sanitized versions of the pictures, Amy denied that her uncle had abused her. She said he told her she was special and took her to buy treats like beef jerky, and she didn’t want anything bad to happen to him. “How is he?” she asked her parents in the weeks after his arrest. “Is he going to be mad at me?”

Over months of therapy, Amy began to talk about the abuse. “My mind has everything in it,” she told her therapist, according to court records I read with her permission. She remembered her uncle trying to have sex with her — it hurt, and she pulled away. And she remembered, at his direction, chatting with men over the Internet about the photos he sent them.

Amy’s uncle pleaded guilty to one count of rape and two counts of child sexual abuse in state court and was sentenced to the minimum for each one, adding up to 12½ years in prison. In federal court, he pleaded guilty to one count of production of child pornography and received a 12-year sentence. Amy’s current lawyer, James Marsh, says her parents were told the state and federal penalties would run consecutively, but instead, her uncle was allowed to serve the two at the same time.

Amy was given a diagnosis of depression and the year her uncle was sentenced, but she also asked to stop going to therapy — she told her parents that she didn’t want to talk about the abuse anymore. Her mother, who worked in health care, and her father, a tradesman, blamed themselves for trusting Amy’s uncle with her. For years Amy’s mother barely spoke to Amy’s aunt, who remained married to her husband, even though the sisters continued to live across the street from each other.

As Amy grew up, she tried to push aside what had happened to her. Every few months, in middle school and high school, her parents would ask if she wanted to talk about it, and each time she would say no. “I was always thinking about it, but I wasn’t ready to deal with how I felt,” she says now. Amy threw herself into her social life, going out and drinking in the hills behind her house. Even to the friends who knew, it almost seemed as if the abuse hadn’t happened.

When she was 17, Amy received her first crime-victim notice from the Justice Department. “My mom said it was a mistake, because I was still a minor — the letter should have been addressed to her and my dad,” she said. “But it had my name on it, and I never got mail, so I wanted to open it. My parents took me into their room and said we needed to have a talk.” Amy’s parents had never told her that her uncle had distributed images of her to other men. “It had been so long by then, eight years,” she said. “They didn’t know how to tell me.”

Amy’s parents took her to see Marsh, who had started the public-interest Children’s Law Center in . At their first meeting, he explained to Amy that the letters meant her pictures had been traded countless times online. “I just felt so full of shame,” Amy said. “I started wondering, Has he looked at them? He said he hadn’t, and that made me feel better. But then I thought, Who has?”

Marsh researched legal remedies for Amy. Combing through his casebooks, he found a provision in the Violence Against Women Act that he had never heard of before: it gave the victims of sex crimes, including child pornography, the right to restitution or compensation for the “full amount” of their losses. Enumerating what those losses could be, Congress listed psychiatric care, lost income and legal costs and concluded, “The issuance of a restitution order under this section is mandatory.”

The provision for restitution, enacted in 1994, had yet to be invoked in a case of child-pornography possession. The basis for such a claim wasn’t necessarily self-evident: how could Amy prove that her ongoing trauma was the fault of any one man who looked at her pictures, instead of her uncle, who abused her and made the pornography?

Marsh suggested that Amy see a forensic psychologist, Joyanna Silberg, who evaluated Amy and said she would need therapy throughout her life and could expect to work sporadically because of the likelihood of periodic setbacks. Silberg attributed these costs — Amy’s damages — to her awareness of the ongoing downloading and viewing. “Usually, we try to help survivors of child sexual abuse make a very strong distinction between the past and the present,” Silberg, who has given testimony on Amy’s behalf for restitution hearings, told me. “The idea is to contain the harm: it happened then, and it’s not happening anymore. But how do you do that when these images are still out there? The past is still the present, which turns the hallmarks of treatment on their head.”

Marsh put together a lifetime claim for Amy totaling almost $3.4 million. With the crime notices arriving in the mail, Marsh started tracking men charged with possession of her pictures. He looked, in particular, for wealthy defendants. He planned to use the concept of joint and several liability to argue that each defendant should be on the hook for the full amount of his client’s damages — that is, for millions of dollars. Joint and several liability is often used in pollution cases: when several companies dump toxic waste in a lake over time, a plaintiff can go after the company with the deepest pockets, and a judge can hold that single company responsible for the entire cost of the cleanup — with the understanding that it’s up to that polluter to sue the others to pay their share.

In July 2008, Marsh learned about the arrest of Alan Hesketh, a former vice-president of , who was charged with trading nearly 2,000 child-pornography photos online — among them four pictures of Amy. Marsh filed one of his first requests for restitution with the prosecution. Hesketh pleaded guilty, and his sentencing was scheduled for later that year.

At the time of the Hesketh case, Amy was struggling. She was 19 and living with her boyfriend. She had enrolled at a local community college, but she drank too much to concentrate on studying. The crime-victim notices had stirred up the past for her, and she wasn’t in regular therapy. “The last class I went to, there was this PowerPoint slide, something about child sexual abuse, and I thought, I can’t do this,” she told me as she sat in her kitchen smoking a cigarette. “It just brought everything back.” Amy dropped out after that, without telling her parents. “I told myself I would just take a year off,” she continued. “But you know, statisticwise, once you leave school, the chances you’ll finish go down about 80 percent.”

Amy has a quick intelligence — she’s a college dropout who can rattle off her own odds of going back — and asks lots of questions. She has focused her curiosity on the legal strategy that Marsh has pursued for her. When Hesketh was sentenced, Amy decided she would be there. “I kind of wanted to face my fear,” she told me. She also wanted to prove a point: Hesketh was arguing, through his lawyer, that he had committed a victimless crime — a common defense in cases of child-pornography possession. “I thought, I want him to look at me and know that I’m not a picture; I’m a person,” she said.

In a federal courthouse in Bridgeport, Conn., in October 2008, Amy sat on the opposite side of the courtroom from Hesketh’s family. The judge opened the proceedings by acknowledging that there was a victim in the courtroom. Amy listened as Hesketh’s grown children asked the judge for mercy for their father. “His kids kept saying he was the best grandfather ever,” she said. “And I was like: ‘But you know. You know what he did.’ ”

Then Hesketh took the stand. As Amy remembers it, he said, “ ‘I’m so sorry.’ ” Earlier, he said that “he hadn’t hurt anyone,” Amy told me. “Now he totally flipped around. I felt like I’d made an impact. It was like, ‘He knows now.’ ”

Hesketh was sentenced to 6½ years. Four months later, in an unprecedented move, the judge advised Hesketh to settle the restitution claim and he agreed to pay $130,000.

Not long after, Amy found out she was pregnant. She wasn’t sorry — at the time she had faith in her boyfriend, whom she had told about the abuse and the photos. But he was a heroin user and dealer, and he went to jail two months after their son was born. Amy started seeing another man who she says had a jealous streak and broke her nose, twice. He also broke her infant son’s leg, she told me. She took the blame when he threatened her, and she had to give up custody to her mother for six months.

As she recalled this time in her life, she took out her phone and scrolled through her photos until she found a close-up of her beaten face: lip split, one eye half-closed, nose swollen and cheek yellow with bruises. The young woman next to me had clear skin and bright eyes, and I had just watched her charm a police officer into calling us a cab. The girl in the photo was expressionless.

Amy stared at the picture on her phone. “That was my normal,” she said.

Six months after Hesketh’s sentencing, Marsh went after another child-pornography defendant, Arthur Staples, a 65-year-old sheriff’s deputy in , who had chatted online with an undercover detective and expressed an interest in young children. Staples sent one image of a young girl (not Amy), and he was caught with more than 600 pictures on his computer, including hers. Staples agreed not to appeal any sentence or restitution judgment. The judge sentenced him to 17½ years, and made the unusual move of ordering him to pay all of Amy’s claim. To Marsh’s surprise, Staples turned out to have $2 million in assets. He has since paid $1.2 million to Amy. (Marsh says the government let Staples’s wife keep part of the estate.) While Amy has been turned down for restitution by some courts, which have stated that there was not enough proof that any one man who viewed her pictures was responsible for the harm she has suffered, she has won more than 150 cases, totaling $1.6 million. Most of the amounts aren’t large: $1,000 or even $100, paid out in checks as small as $7.33.

Nicole has also been pursuing restitution. Her lawyer, Carol Hepburn, did her own research and got in touch with Marsh when she learned about the claims he was bringing for Amy. The two lawyers now collaborate on ideas and strategy, though they represent their clients separately. Since receiving her first check for $10,000, Nicole has collected more than $550,000, mostly in small amounts from 204 different men. So far only a few other child-pornography victims have gone to court for restitution. Many may not know there is a legal remedy; others don’t know their images have circulated.

The restitution checks gave Nicole a lift when they started to trickle in, but, like Amy, she had trouble with the transition into adulthood. In the fall of 2008, Nicole was attending a one-year bible college and working at an ice-cream shop. At work she felt increasingly self-conscious around male customers. Had they seen her pictures? Were they like the man who stalked her on Myspace — were any of them coming to the store because they knew? That spring, Nicole testified at her father’s sentencing. She asked the judge to give him a long punishment, and her father was sent to prison for 50 years. Her roommates, one of whom was a friend from her childhood church, supported her. “But I didn’t have a counselor there, and that was tough,” she said. “I called my parents and said: ‘I have to quit my job, and I need to come home. I feel like I’m going crazy.’ ”

During her first few weeks at home, Nicole slept all day in her childhood bedroom and stayed up late watching sitcoms like and Finally, she started counseling and was able to get a job doing administrative work at a nuclear-waste site. That June, she testified at the sentencing hearing of four child-pornography defendants caught with her images, hoping to gather strength from speaking out. Instead, the experience made her feel exposed.

More than a year later, in the fall of 2010, she left for a four-year college away from home. She was worried about being on her own, but she wanted to try. “I push myself,” she told me. “I don’t like to say something is too much for me.” Like Amy, however, she took a psychology course, about child development, that brought up unbearable memories. During lectures, she began going blank. “All of a sudden class would be over, and I would be like, ‘What happened?’ ” she said. She started skipping class for fear of continuing to disassociate.

Nicole, who wasn’t in counseling at the time, failed all but two of her courses that spring. “I just totally broke down,” she said. “I’d come home and sit in the same position and stare into space, and then I’d look at the clock, and it was six hours later.” Nicole talked about this period of her life with Hepburn and me over dinner one night last summer. She showed us a tattoo on her right wrist: a heart sheltered by wings that she got after her father’s sentencing. She also learned to make tattoos, and she took out her phone to show us a picture of the first one she created, an anchor with a rope curled around it. “My cousin is a tattoo artist, and he taught me,” she said. “We grew up together, and he was a very easy person to hang out with during that bad time. I’d go over to his place, and he’d be drawing, and he said, ‘You’re into design, you could do this.’ When I tried I felt this release of emotions. We started drawing for hours to music — , Cake, everything. You have to learn how to go smoothly and keep the same pressure on the line the whole time. I drew anchors over and over again on grapefruit. I’d been numb for months, and now I could feel again. I actually felt joy.”

In the fall of 2011, Nicole transferred to a campus closer to her family. She made her way through her course work by avoiding subject matter that upset her and by allowing for her own limitations. “I had to accept that, because I have this extra stressor, I get overwhelmed by things that other people can do,” she said.

Nicole decided to spare herself going to court, so she wasn’t in , in September 2011, for the sentencing of Luis Enriquez-Alonso, a student at the . He agreed to plead guilty after being caught with thousands of illegal videos and images, including Nicole’s, on his computer. At the hearing, Enriquez-Alonso and his parents listened while the prosecutor read into the record a statement Nicole wrote about what it is like to know men are looking at her pictures: “After all these years and going to different counselors, I still haven’t learned the trick to let my mind rest,” Nicole wrote. “When I do sleep, my dreams are vivid and I remember them for weeks. A common theme is finding myself naked in front of a crowd of people or in an enclosed space and I can’t escape or run away fast enough.”

That day, without a court order, Enriquez-Alonso’s family handed over a check for $150,000, along with an expression of remorse. “That really touched me,” Nicole said, “that his family wanted to make sure that I was taken care of, that I could get all the counseling I need. Most of the time when I get restitution, there’s no story behind it. I feel like they’re forced to give the money. In this case, they wanted to do it, and there were words behind it, kind words.” Enriquez-Alonso, who faced a maximum of 10 years in prison, is serving 5.

Study after study links child sexual abuse to psychological trauma, addiction and violent relationships in adulthood. There is almost no research, however, that deals with the specifics of Amy and Nicole’s experiences: What additional harm comes from knowing that pictures of your childhood exploitation are circulating widely?

The Supreme Court actually addressed this question in its 1982 decision upholding child-pornography bans. “ ‘Pornography poses an even greater threat to the child victim than does sexual abuse or prostitution,’ ” Justice Byron White wrote, quoting from a book about abused children. “ ‘Because the child’s actions are reduced to a recording, the pornography may haunt him in future years, long after the original misdeed took place.’ ”

David Finkelhor, a sociologist who directs the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the , sees the moral weight of the Supreme Court’s proclamation, but not the empirical proof. “The evidence doesn’t yet tell us to what extent the experience of being a pornography victim aggravates the experience of the sexual abuse itself,” he told me. “How do you separate it out?”

Courts have disagreed on this question. In at least a dozen cases, defendants have appealed restitution decisions and mostly won. In five of those cases, federal appeals courts have expressed skepticism that Amy and Nicole should receive more than nominal restitution. Two other appeals courts have allowed the young women to recover from individual defendants as members of the group of viewers but, so far, only for amounts of $10,000 or less. (Amy collected a far greater sum from Arthur Staples because he waived his right to appeal.)

Last spring, the legal battle was focused on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which covers , and . One panel of three judges upheld full restitution to Amy of millions of dollars from a Texas man. Based on that decision, a second three-judge panel affirmed a separate $529,000 restitution order for Amy against a defendant, but voiced its fundamental disagreement with the original ruling. To address the dispute, 15 Fifth Circuit judges gathered last May for a hearing in New Orleans. James Marsh and Carol Hepburn were there along with Amy; Nicole chose not to go. Amy knew this was the most significant hearing to date, and she wanted to show the judges that she was real, just as she had shown Alan Hesketh.

At the lectern to argue her side was Paul G. Cassell, a former federal judge who teaches law at the . Cassell is a staunch conservative (he challenged the right to a Miranda warning before the Supreme Court), and Marsh and Hepburn, both Democrats, were surprised at first to be allied with him. But as a leading advocate for victims’ rights, Cassell sees in Amy’s claims a chance to lay the groundwork for broader change.

For 30 years, the victims’-rights movement has fought for a larger role for victims in criminal prosecutions. Victims have gained the right to make statements in court about the impact a crime has had on them, which judges can take into account in determining punishment. Restitution remains an ambitious next step. The standard context is crime involving financial loss — a bank robber ordered to return stolen money to the bank or an embezzler who must repay the employer he defrauded. Cassell sees Amy and Nicole’s cases as a route to expand the idea. “I’d like to pursue the concept of total restitution for all victims, for whatever crimes and losses a defendant has caused,” Cassell told me. “This is a good opportunity to show how it can work.”

In the courtroom, Cassell linked the defendants to the network for child-pornography distribution. “What the defendants have done is collect images of an 8-year-old girl being bound, raped and sodomized,” he said. “If you participate in a market, you become responsible for that market.”The lawyer for the New Orleans defendant disagreed. She argued that there was no proof that her client, in particular, had harmed Amy — no way to show that his viewing of her images caused damage. She also called the restitution order for $529,000 “grossly disproportionate to his culpability relative to other people who have abused Amy.”

Michael Rotker, the lawyer for the department, told the court that the problem with the restitution awards was that there was no statutory authority for joint and several liability — nothing in the law, as Congress wrote it, which allowed a victim to recover a large award from one defendant who could then seek to recoup those losses by suing other defendants. Instead, Rotker argued, each defendant could be held responsible only for a small and roughly equal fraction of the whole. He offered this hypothetical example: if 200 men were convicted of possessing Amy’s images, and her claim for damages totaled $3 million, then a judge would have discretion to order a defendant to pay restitution of $15,000 to $30,000.

As the lawyers spoke, Amy’s eyes filled with tears. “Some of it was hard to listen to,” she told me later. “But my therapist said to think of it as a store, with different compartments you can take out and put back. She said, ‘When you were a little girl, you had to compartmentalize to deal with everything you went through.’ So I can still do that now, and sometimes it’s good, I guess.”

At one point in the proceedings, Judge Emilio Garza stopped Cassell, not to challenge him, but to pick up on his theme. “It seems to me that we’re in this brave new world, where not only was there an actual rape, but I’m going to suggest to you there is a continuing digitized rape,” the judge said. “Possession of the digitized recording of the rape contributes to the system, contributes to the economic benefit of those who produced this thing.”

The judges would not announce their decision for several months, but at the end of the hearing, Amy focused on what Garza said that day. “To hear that from a judge — I couldn’t believe it,” she told me. “It was so relieving. It was like he really got it. He understood.”

Just six weeks after Amy got home from New Orleans, her uncle was released from prison after completing his concurrent 12-year sentences. Amy says she was greatly relieved when her aunt told her that she wouldn’t allow him in the house. Instead, he was paroled nearby. When Marsh texted to give her the address, Amy happened to be only a few blocks from it. “I almost dropped the phone,” she said. “Oh, my God, it was just so weird. I thought, He’s got binoculars, he’s looking for me. I thought the worst.” Marsh reminded her that if her uncle contacted her, he would go back to prison. And also that she was an adult now and safe from her uncle’s pedophilia.

Last month, while standing in line at with her brother and a friend, Amy saw a man who she thought was her uncle looking at her. “I wasn’t positive because I haven’t seen him for so long,” she said. “But as soon as I made eye contact, I didn’t breathe.” Was she being paranoid? She couldn’t tell. The man seemed to follow them out of the store. As they got into her car, the man stopped to light a cigarette, and she thought he was staring at them. “It was very, very scary,” she said.

Today, a sentence like the one Amy’s uncle received — with no additional prison time for a federal conviction for pornography production and distribution — is extremely rare. The penalties for distributing or receiving pornography have become harsher. Receiving one illegal photo carries a mandatory minimum penalty of five years. The number of images a defendant downloads increases the punishment, as does his use of a computer. Now that large volumes of data stream with a click, the average recommended prison term for possession has jumped to 10 years, even if a defendant has no criminal record and there is no evidence that he produced or distributed porn. Because some child sexual abuse cases still end in relatively low penalties in state court, there’s a paradox: defendants who look at sexual pictures of children can spend more years in prison than people who abuse children but don’t have pornography of them.

The United States Sentencing Commission held hearings last February to discuss whether the punishment for child-pornography offenders has become both disproportionate and unfair — with people who committed similar crimes receiving vastly different penalties, based on the subjective decisions of judges. Restitution was discussed even though the prevailing view is that technically it isn’t considered part of punishment. Its purpose is to “make the victim whole,” as the legal phrase goes. “Simply put, an innocent victim should not suffer financial losses from a crime — the defendant should make good on those losses,” Cassell said.

But Douglas Berman, an law professor who writes a frequently cited blog about sentencing, argues that the commission could rethink the role of restitution. In some cases, restitution could be considered commensurate to prison time — and courts could recommend shorter sentences for child-pornography collectors who agree to compensate victims based on their ability to pay. Berman thinks the key to making this leap is adopting the point of view of the victim. “Victims are shrewder than most prosecutors about the diminishing returns of long incarceration,” he said. “They want perpetrators to serve some time. They want these men’s lives disrupted, and they want the deterrence that helps protect other people. But they’re often wise enough to realize that there’s not much gain in deterrence from a 5 or 10 year sentence to 15 years. If victims are saying that restitution is as, or more, important to them than five extra years, I very much think the sentencing commission and Congress should listen.”

When I asked Amy about such a trade-off, she supported it. Nicole had mixed feelings: she liked the idea of greater incentives for restitution, but she wasn’t sure about giving up longer punishments, given how easy it would be for someone to leave prison and go back to downloading child pornography. Cassell says that using restitution in this way could have value. “If it makes the perpetrators internalize how they’ve hurt the victims — if it makes them see there are real victims — then you deter them from doing this again when they get out,” he said.

Berman also favors a proposal that has been discussed at the Justice Department: a general compensation fund that would systematically collect restitution from child-pornography offenders and pay it out to victims like Amy and Nicole based on the harm they suffered and the costs they’ve incurred because of it. A compensation fund could give more victims the financial means to put their lives back together. And it could force more defendants to reckon with the children in the pictures and with their own role in supporting a market that depends on abuse.

Restitution has allowed Amy and Nicole to get the counseling they need, but receiving large sums can be complicated. When Amy received her $130,000 check from Alan Hesketh, she went on shopping sprees at the mall, splurging at stores like . She had never been able to earn a steady paycheck, and the money was a sudden windfall. By the time the $1.2 million check came last spring, she was more considered. She didn’t want to stand out in her small town. Last summer, she bought a modest three-bedroom house a few miles from her childhood home, where her mother and brothers still live.

Amy has also discovered that she likes giving money away — to her mother for a new deck, to a close friend who wanted kitchen cabinets she couldn’t otherwise afford. It’s her way of dealing with the discomfort of having resources that people around her don’t and repaying those who helped her along the way. “I used to be a mooch to my friends, asking, ‘Could I bum a cigarette?’ I was a smoker who couldn’t afford a pack,” she told me. “So now, if you’re my friends or family, and you need something, I’ve got your back.”

Nicole’s relationship to her restitution money is different, partly because she has received smaller checks. She used a bit to travel, and to buy a car. She has primarily paid for her education. Though school can still be difficult for her — during her last semester of college, Nicole continued to miss classes and assignments because she was disassociating — she graduated in December with an A on her final paper and plans to apply to a master’s program in counseling for the fall. At the moment, she’s taking time off, renting a house with a friend and having a serious romantic relationship. Eventually, her plan is to earn a Ph.D. in clinical psychology.

Some researchers worry that restitution runs the risk of perpetually casting the people it seeks to help in the role of victim. “There is some research showing that kids who have been abused benefit from being relieved of the victim identification when cases resolve faster,” says David Finkelhor, the University of New Hampshire sociologist. But Amy and Nicole say that receiving money doesn’t trouble them in that way. Nicole talked about feeling vindicated by the restitution payments. “I didn’t feel ambivalent about the money, not at all,” she said. When I asked Amy if she thought that the checks were tainted by their tie to the pornography, she said, “No — I don’t think about it that way.” She added: “O.K., I didn’t work for this money. I mean, I didn’t put in 12-hour days for years straight. But I earned it, kind of. Even if I didn’t earn it.”

Amy and I talked about this last summer when I visited her at her new house. Her young son greeted me, pretending to be a monster. They had two new puppies that followed us as she showed me around, pointing out a couple of paintings that I watched her buy in New Orleans (she had asked Marsh how much she could spend). In the basement, Amy flicked on track lights that the previous owner installed over the bar. A door led to the garage, which housed a gleaming car she bought for $15,000.

For more than two years, Amy has been living with the man she started dating after she left the one who broke her nose. They knew each other from high school, and she feels sure about him: he has a full-time job and a long-term plan that includes getting married and then having a baby. When Amy found out her uncle was out of prison, her boyfriend helped calm her down; he said she had nothing to fear now, and she decided he was right.

While I was visiting, I gave Amy a ride to see her therapist — “I don’t know what I’d do without her, I feel so much better being in therapy” — and on the way back, we stopped at her mother’s house. Amy took me out on the half-rebuilt deck and pointed through the pine trees to the entrance to the basement of the house where her aunt still lives and where her uncle had taken her.

“I haven’t passed through that door since I was 9,” she said. “One day I will. Me and my therapist talked about it. I’m not there yet, but I’ll get there. I’ll be able to go in and be like, ‘Yeah, I can do this.’ ”

In October, the Fifth Circuit ruled in Amy’s favor, in a 10 to 5 decision. The court also accepted the theory of joint and several liability, finding that this means of allocating shared responsibility can ensure “that Amy receives the full amount of her losses, to the extent possible, while also ensuring that no defendant bears more responsibility than is required for full restitution.” Victims and the Justice Department can keep track of how much has been recovered, and courts can set a payment schedule based on an individual defendant’s ability to pay. “Ultimately, while the imposition of full restitution may appear harsh, it is not grossly disproportionate to the crime of receiving and possessing child pornography,” Judge Garza wrote for the court. “Defendants collectively create the demand that fuels the creation of the abusive images.” Garza sent Amy’s award of $529,000 back to the lower court because it did not provide for restitution “in full” — in other words, it was too small.

The Fifth Circuit’s decision creates a clear split among the appeals courts over how to interpret Congress’ provision of restitution for sex-crime victims — a split that only the Supreme Court can resolve. Cassell and Marsh have asked the justices to do that, and the court could hear a restitution case as early as next fall.

For Amy, Supreme Court review is a heady prospect. “If I win, that will set everything up for other people like me, and that would be so amazing,” she said. “I don’t even think there are words for it. To help people know that they’re not powerless, that would be such a good feeling.”

Nicole worries about the public exposure that a Supreme Court case would bring. But she shared Amy’s hope that it would help other victims. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has a database of more than 5,000 child-pornography victims. The center estimates that 12 percent of them have had their photos distributed across the Internet. That means hundreds of young people, in their teens and early 20s, could have potential claims for restitution. “I need the help I’m getting, especially the counseling,” Nicole said. “I want other people to get it, too.” Restitution can’t undo the damage of the past. It can’t actually make her or Amy whole. Still, Nicole says, “it can help give us the tools to heal.”
614 2013-01-27 The postwar suburbs were either heaven or hell for their inhabitants — endless stretches of brand-new houses on quarter-acre lots, occupied, during weekday hours, entirely by women and children. I grew up in one in , where the dads drove off to work every morning in what was then the only family car, leaving behind a land in which the only adult males were Tommy the milkman and Art, who drove an old bus outfitted with shelves of groceries that he sold to the stranded housewives. The moms were busy, mainly with the several small kids, but they were not overworked. The high point of the day came at 4 or 5, when the chores were done, dinner was in the oven and the women could congregate in someone’s kitchen or on the back porch to drink and talk. In our house at least, that was followed by my father’s arrival and a second cocktail hour, during which my parents discussed their day while the older children took the younger ones for endless walks in the stroller. Perhaps the only way Friedan’s household resembled mine was in the drinking.

In “The Feminine Mystique,” Friedan tried to portray herself as the typical middle-class housewife of the early ’60s. But really, the Smith graduate who worked for a series of left-wing and union newspapers in before matrimony and motherhood was no such thing. She was from a smaller cadre of women who went to college holding two self-images simultaneously: the future stay-at-home housewife and the serious student who cared about grades and reading lists and serious discussions, who took the same courses as the men — or who, like Friedan, went to Smith and presumed her courses were actually harder. Then she was off to graduate school until the boy she was dating took her for a walk in the hills and said, “Nothing can come of this, between us. Because I’ll never win a fellowship like yours.” Friedan gave up her academic career, came East and “lived in the present, working on newspapers with no particular plan. I married, had children, lived according to the feminine mystique as a suburban housewife.”

Did that really happen? Did that one remark from a jealous suitor really send Friedan off to New York and marriage to an entirely different man? It doesn’t actually matter. What matters is that as a housewife — even one who kept writing freelance magazine articles on the side — Friedan was bored out of her mind. The difference between her era and the past, she understood, was that the nature of housework had changed when Americans moved from the farm to the cities, and then the suburbs. The farm wife had a crucial economic role in the family, which depended on her to manufacture the clothes, the soap, the candles and the cheese; to grow the vegetables and raise the chickens; and to participate in the informal housewife economy where she could trade the things she made for other vital family supplies.

The suburban housewife had no economic point at all, and modern appliances had stripped her of most of the time-consuming chores of the past as well. A woman’s sense of self, Friedan wrote, “once rested on necessary work and achievement in the home.” But that vanished in an era when housework “is no longer really necessary or really uses much ability — in a country and at a time when women can be free, finally, to move on to something more.”

Friedan’s analysis of what was bothering her turned into “The Feminine Mystique.” And when it hit the stands, women who were feeling bored and trapped by their perfect homes and marriages picked up the book and mentally repositioned themselves in the world. “Some of the women were outraged that ‘The Feminine Mystique’ placed their choices into question, and others, like myself, felt at last they had been understood,” said Madeleine Kunin, who argued about it at her book club in , Mass., where she was the wife of a medical student. Kunin later rejoined the working world herself. Like Friedan, she overachieved, and eventually she became governor of .

As far as I know, none of the moms in my neighborhood read “The Feminine Mystique.” If they ever questioned their choices, it was later, when an inherent flaw became apparent in the ideal suburban lifestyle that was celebrated in all those women’s magazines that drove Friedan nuts. The feminine mystique was built around the central feminine role as mother, but the first generation of suburbanites had their babies young, and the children were grown and gone while their role-deprived moms were still in the primes of their lives. We looked back from our new homes at college dorms and understood that this was an emptiness we had to protect ourselves against. Later, when we got our late-arriving hands on “The Feminine Mystique,” it was an aha! moment. Friedan’s obsession about having a career — the one answer she seemed to grab at for every single problem — made perfect sense.

“The Feminine Mystique” became the kind of best seller that defines an author’s life. In 1966, Friedan was researching another book in Washington when she wound up at a conference of state commissions on the status of women, where attendees were angry over the fact that the federal government had made it clear it had no intention of enforcing a law against job discrimination on the basis of sex that was included in the 1964 Civil Rights Act. (This is a good time to point out that “The Feminine Mystique” did not create the women’s rights movement. Those commissions on the status of women were started by the Kennedy administration before the book was published, and the Civil Rights Act was being debated in Congress while American housewives were still just starting to pass Friedan’s book around.)

It was in Friedan’s hotel room that the angry conference-goers met to discuss what they should do when the Johnson administration showed no interest in pursuing the issue. (Friedan was universally known as a difficult personality, and at one point she locked herself in the bathroom and told everyone to go home, but no one did.) The next day, it was Friedan’s coterie that angrily passed around notes at lunch, creating, on the spot, the , which Friedan would head. It would be NOW, under Friedan, that would file suits on behalf of exactly the kind of average, unglamorous, working women that “The Feminine Mystique” is always criticized for ignoring. And in 1970, it was Friedan who called for the great march to celebrate the 50th anniversary of women’s suffrage, creating a mass turnout in cities around the country that would drive home to the nation exactly how determined women were to transform their lives and their society. In New York, the marchers were denied a parade permit for Fifth Avenue and were told to keep to the sidewalks. Friedan, at the head of the pack, took the lead again. “There was no way we were about to walk down Fifth Avenue in a little thin line,” she wrote later. “I waved my arms over my head and yelled, ‘Take to the streets!’ What a moment that was.”
615 2013-01-28 Mary Jo White, President Obama’s pick to run the Securities and Exchange Commission, is a former defender of those she’d be expected to oversee....
616 2013-01-28 Part 7: The “Portlandia” creators explain why so much of the show’s comedy is performed through relationships, couples and friendships.
617 2013-01-28 The Post-it campaign is the most recent in a series of efforts by marketers to take advantage of a trend known as customization, which is particularly reshaping pitches aimed at millennial consumers in their 20s and 30s.

Customization refers to the penchant among younger consumers to be expressive and personalize mass-market goods — having it their way, to paraphrase the old Burger King slogan — as they seek to have a say in the story a brand is telling them.

Another example in the field of office products is a campaign by Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for the Sharpie brand of markers sold by Newell Rubbermaid, which carries the themes “Uncap what’s inside” and “Start with Sharpie.” The home page of the Sharpie Web site asks, “What are you starting?” and prompts visitors to “join the Sharpie community” and “show how creative you can be with Sharpie.”

The Post-it campaign begins as 3M reports strong results in its most recent fiscal quarter for sales of Post-its and other products sold by a business segment the company refers to as consumer and office, which includes office supplies and stationery.

The Post-it campaign is “a component of our overall revitalization strategy with the business and the brand,” says Jesse Singh, vice president for the stationery and office supplies division of 3M in Minnesota.

“If you think about the product, it’s iconic, it’s been in the market over 30 years,” he adds, and until recently the strategy to sell it was by “taking a functional view of the brand.”

“As we did research on our customer base,” Mr. Singh says, the crucial finding is that people “had a much more emotional relationship with the product” than 3M executives had expected.

“They’re using it to communicate, using it to collaborate, using it to organize themselves,” he adds.

That led to a rethinking of how to market Post-it, Mr. Singh says, shifting from a “product-out” perspective to one that is “really consumer-in.”

“We were inspired,” he adds, by the “quirky and inspired uses of our product.”

That is brought to life in the initial two TV commercials in the campaign. One, which runs 60 seconds, is composed of vignettes. The spot begins with a man sticking a Post-it, which reads “Morning, beautiful,” and includes a pointing arrow, onto the mirror on the bathroom medicine chest as a woman brushes her teeth. “Go ahead, keep the honeymoon going,” a narrator says.

The scene shifts to what appears to be a college campus as young people affix Post-it notes to a wall outside a building that is near a sign reading, “What inspires you?” As that vignette, clearly based on the Cambridge store window, appears on screen, the narrator says, “Share on a real wall.”

Other vignettes include people adding Post-its to a wall covered with them, which is divided into categories like “App name” and “Features”; a woman sticking Post-its bearing tasks onto windows; a young man covering a wall with artwork created with Post-its of multiple colors; a young woman with a notebook filled with drawings of bridges and Post-its, who is posed between two bridges; and students with a teacher in a classroom.

As those vignettes appear on screen, the narrator makes comments that include “Turn up the genius,” “Outsmart the unknown together” “Rewrite the rules for getting it done” and “Keep inspiration at your fingertips.” He concludes by declaring: “Go ahead. Post-it brand.”

The commercial ends with a hand removing Post-its from a pad, one by one, revealing phrases like “Go ahead connect,” “Go ahead inspire,” “Go ahead explore” and “Go ahead.”

The second commercial that has been introduced, that runs 30 seconds, has a timely tack.

“It’s a new year,” a female narrator says, “a new chance to be the person you’ve always wanted to be.” On screen, there are vignettes like a woman exercising on a treadmill that bears a Post-it that reads, “Reunion June 15”; an office with an oversize Post-it on a wall, reading, “New year new goals”; and a woman looking into a mirror bearing a Post-it that reads, “Just be you.”

The narrator says: “It’s not about being perfect. Just a little smarter, a little healthier, maybe a little happier.” The second spot ends with the entreaty “Go ahead, start fresh” and a suggestion to look at additional usage ideas on the Post-it Web site.

“Post-it has always been a fast, friendly, easy way to get things done,” says Jeff Odiorne, executive creative director at Grey New York, and consumers “understand you can find Post-its pretty much everywhere.”

The intent of the campaign is broader, he adds, to convey that “Post-it helps you unlock” possibilities and “open a human way to connect.”

The campaign represents “the first time we’re including all these forms of creativity under one banner,” Mr. Odiorne says, reflecting how “consumers have taken it upon themselves to figure out how to use the brand” in unconventional ways.

“It’s a brand that consumers love so much, they’ve made it what it is today,” he adds. “The real things that real people do or have done, we want to put those on stage.”

There are plans for at least three more commercials this year, Mr. Odiorne says, which are likely to run during the back-to-school shopping season.

One spot will feature “moms and kids,” he adds, and the other will be “an ode to teachers and how they inspire us, and how Post-its help them.”

The third commercial, meant for college students, will be “in the genre of ‘Go ahead, dream big,’” Mr. Odiorne says, “focused on the optimism of the millennials.”

As the campaign proceeds, Mr. Singh says, 3M intends to revamp the experience that consumers have online with Post-it products.

“If you look at the way we have operated in the digital space, we have been a very traditional player,” he adds.

Zeus Jones, an agency in Minneapolis, is “working with us on our online creative, our digital strategy, our social engagement,” Mr. Singh says. “They’re developing a plan that we’re in the process of implementing.”

The reworking will mean significant changes to how the Post-it brand interacts with consumers in social media like Facebook and Twitter.

Also in the works are an “expansion of our product offerings,” Mr. Singh says, to complement newer items like the Post-it Big Pad.

“And we’re expanding the visual design language” of the brand, he adds, to go beyond the familiar colors for Post-its like yellow and appeal more to demographic groups that include “moms and teenagers.”

According to the Kantar Media division of WPP, 3M spent $1.63 million to advertise Post-it products during the first nine months of last year, compared with $3.1 million for the similar period of 2011.

The total spent for the entire year of 2011 was $3.13 million, Kantar Media reported, much less than the $8.84 million spent in 2010 and a bit more than the $2.81 million in 2009.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.
618 2013-01-28 David Fisher joined the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Havas Creative unit of Havas, in a new post, director for integrated production. He had most recently been executive producer and production director at TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Leo P. Francis joined McCann Complete Medical, New York, in a new post, executive vice president at McCann Complete Medical U.S. He had been president at the Publicis Medical Education Group division of the Publicis Groupe. McCann Complete Medical is part of the McCann Health division of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Jonathan Gardner joined the New York office of Turn in a new post, director for communications, overseeing those duties on a worldwide basis. He had been global director for communications at Vibrant Media, New York.

Ron Gillyard joined Quantasy, Los Angeles, in a new post, chief growth officer. He had been running a consulting business, working with music and technology companies, and before that was an executive at companies like Bad Boy Entertainment and Interscope Records.

Amy Gunzenhauser joined Bpg Advertising, Los Angeles, in a new post, senior director for social media and strategy. She had been director for social media and strategy at the Los Angeles office of Way to Blue.

Christopher S. Holben, vice president and director for public relations at Runyon Saltzman & Einhorn, Sacramento, was named president and director for public relations. He assumes the president’s post from Estelle G. Saltzman, who becomes chairwoman.

David Jones joined the Toronto office of Critical Mass, part of the Omnicom Group, as vice president for its social practice, leading social operations globally. He succeeds Heidi Skinner, who is now e-marketing manager at the Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Milwaukee. Mr. Jones had been vice president for strategy at Blast Radius, Toronto.

Anna Magzanyan joined The Hollywood Reporter, Los Angeles, in a new post, vice president for marketing. She had most recently been senior vice president for strategic partnerships at Clear Channel Media and Entertainment, part of Clear Channel Communications. The Hollywood Reporter is owned by Guggenheim Digital Media, formerly known as Prometheus Global Media; Guggenheim is owned by Guggenheim Partners.

Bill Masterson joined SocialCode, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had been a sales director at the New York office of Facebook.

Maxwell Systems, King of Prussia, Pa., which sells management software to construction companies, named Stein & Partners Brand Activation as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. There had not been a previous agency of record.

The Okaloosa County Tourism Development Department in Florida chose Peter Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, as its agency of record, to promote Okaloosa County — including Destin, Fort Walton and Okaloosa Island — as a travel destination. The account had been handled by the Zimmerman Agency, Tallahassee, Fla. Spending was estimated at $437, 580 each year.

Albert Poon joined Doremus Hong Kong and Doremus Beijing, part of the Doremus division of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, group creative director. He had most recently been creative director at Atelier Design, Hong Kong.

Ripley’s Believe It or Not Times Square selected RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md., as its agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. The account had previously been handled by the Pekoe Group, New York. The Ripley’s Believe It or Not in Times Square is owned by Big Apple Entertainment Partners, part of 1848 Capital Partners.

Caralene Robinson joined VH1, part of Viacom, as senior vice president for creative group and consumer marketing. She succeeds Nigel Cox-Hagan, who left, the channel said. Ms. Robinson had most recently been vice president for brand strategy and marketing communications at Sprint Nextel.

Mike Rosen joined the New York office of Telemundo Media, part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, as executive vice president for advertising sales and integrated marketing. He succeeds Dan Lovinger, who was recently promoted to executive vice president for advertising sales at the NBCUniversal Cable unit of NBCUniversal. Mr. Rosen had been president for investment and activation at the New York office of Starcom, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe; he was recently succeeded there by Amanda Richman.

St. Lucia Tourist Board, St. Lucia, West Indies, selected ISM Lifestyle Marketing, Boston, as its agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. The account had previously been handled by Figment Design, Coconut Grove, Fla.

Salmon Group, London, has become part of WPP, London, as WPP acquires the Salmon parent, Okam. Financial terms were not disclosed. Salmon, which specializes in e-commerce and digital consulting for retailers, will operate as an autonomous unit of WPP.

UniversityNow, San Francisco, the parent of Patten University and New Charter University, hired Neighbor, Santa Monica, Calif., as its first agency of record. Spending was not disclosed.

Andrew Vasquez joined the Seattle office of Wong, Doody, Crandall, Wiener as senior designer. He had been a senior designer at Creature, Seattle.

Matt Weisbecker joined GumGum, Santa Monica, Calif., in a new post, vice president for Western sales. He had most recently been director for national sales and strategy at the Amazon Media Group division of Amazon.
619 2013-01-28 Amar'e Stoudemire's Knicks comeback has taken a turn for the promising in recent games....
620 2013-01-28 The celebrated value investor Warren E. Buffett ultimately did not raise his bid to top IntercontinentalExchange's $8.2 billion proposal....
621 2013-01-28 ¶The Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team named Walton Isaacson, Los Angeles, as its advertising and marketing agency of record for 2013. The team had handled those duties internally last year. Spending has not been determined.

¶Javier Campopiano, executive creative director at DraftFCB Argentina and regional creative director at DraftFCB Latin America, part of the DraftFCB division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, will move to the United States to become chief creative officer at the New York office of DraftFCB, a post that had been vacant since early 2012 when Darren Moran left the agency.

¶Joe Lockhart, who had been a founding partner at the Glover Park Group, Washington, is returning to the agency as a senior adviser. He had most recently been vice president for global communications at Facebook. Glover Park is owned by WPP.

¶Ryan Linder joined Doner, Southfield, Mich., part of MDC Partners, as senior vice president and chief growth officer, a new post. He had most recently been executive vice president and chief marketing and growth officer at Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group.

¶Havas Worldwide New York formed a media unit, Shared Owned and Earned, which brings together the agency’s specialists in fields like analytics and content strategy. Richard Notarianni, executive director for engagement planning and performance at Havas Worldwide New York, will lead the new unit, which will work for agency clients like Dos Equis and Reckitt Benckiser. Havas Worldwide New York is part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas Creative, owned by Havas.

¶Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, part of Anheuser-Busch InBev, paid tribute last week to Stan Musial, who played for the St. Louis Cardinals from 1941 to 1963 and died on Jan. 19. Anheuser-Busch owned the Cardinals from 1953 to 1996 and its beer brands like Budweiser have long sponsored the team. The tribute took the form of a print advertisement, featuring a large red 6, Mr. Musial’s uniform number, that ran in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch and Sports Illustrated.
622 2013-01-28 Goldman Sachs is selling a $1 billion stake in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the largest Chinese bank....
623 2013-01-28 Corporate profits, what's in the refrigerator, why M.B.A.'s fail, and do you consider your business socially conscious?...
624 2013-01-28 It's a common refrain in child pornography cases to say that it is a victimless crime. The person who downloaded the image was "just looking." Restitution helps force them to see that they are part of a market that depends on hurting real children...
625 2013-01-28 Ina Jang, the photographer behind our cover article on victims of child pornography, reveals the process behind her work....
626 2013-01-28 Mr. Purchase, a biker from Tacoma, Wash., began handing out sterile syringes on the streets to prevent AIDS among drug addicts 24 years ago....
627 2013-01-28 The cruel irony in this is that Dempsey’s love of hitting people on the football field may very well be responsible for the syndrome that is slowly depriving him of the hard-hitting memories he so delights in sharing. He is suffering from dementia.

In a recent interview, Carlene was by Dempsey’s side to dutifully and lovingly act as fact-checker and blank filler. A couple of times, she prompted him to share a story she knew he would be keen to share. She also did not hesitate to step in and correct him when it appeared his memory was failing him.

“I went to Encinitas High School,” he said at one point. That prompted Carlene to say, “No, honey, you went to San Dieguito High School in Encinitas, remember?” He replied, “Oh yeah, that’s right.”

Dr. Daniel Amen, a brain disorder specialist who has done extensive studies on football players, made the initial diagnosis of Dempsey. He said he was astonished by the amount of damage he noticed in his brain after getting back the results of some scans.

“I wondered, Why does this kicker’s brain look not so good?” Amen said in a phone interview. “Because I was thinking that kickers should have the best-looking brains. But he didn’t.”

What Amen later learned is that bygone-era kickers like Dempsey, who was listed at 6 feet 2 inches and 255 pounds, did things on the field that are pretty much unheard-of today: they played other positions on offense and/or defense, as Dempsey did in high school and college, not to mention being vital components on special-teams units — unlike modern kickers, who usually get near a return man only if he manages to get past the 10 other guys on the coverage team, and that is only if the kickoff does not sail out of the end zone for a touchback.

After being kicked off the football team at Palomar College for punching one of his coaches, Dempsey was brought into the N.F.L. by Vince Lombardi and the Green Bay Packers in the hopes of turning him into a kicker/offensive lineman in the mold of Lou Groza. But for the first time in his football life, Dempsey was heavily outmatched physically by the famed monsters on the Packers’ defensive line.

“I got beat up pretty bad every day in practice,” said Dempsey, who never played a game in a Packers uniform. It was then, he says, that he decided, after a stint playing for a semipro team in Massachusetts, that he wanted to focus exclusively on being a kicker. But again, that did not stop him from hitting people on the football field.

Over the course of his career, the Dempseys say, Tom had three concussions that were diagnosed, but that several others likely went undiagnosed. They recalled one game in which Dempsey, after laying a jarring hit on someone after kicking off, was so disoriented that he ran to the wrong sideline and grabbed a seat on the opposing team’s bench. He had to be shown back to his place across the field by an equipment manager, and he later returned to the game.

The record Dempsey set more than 42 years ago has since been equaled by three others (Jason Elam, Sebastian Janikowski and David Akers) but has stubbornly gone unsurpassed, a rather remarkable feat given the advanced, year-round training and conditioning programs modern N.F.L. players almost universally participate in.

In stark contrast, Dempsey typically spent his off-seasons at home in Southern California working as a bricklayer and as wrestler on the local professional wrestling circuit. (“I was one of the good guys,” he said.) He claims to have even sneaked out of practice a time or two during the season to play golf with buddies.

In his time off during the season and during the off-season, Dempsey, who was also born without the fingers on his right hand, drank a lot. He and Carlene were dating at the time of the 63-yard kick — “He courted me mainly at the Old Absinthe House on Bourbon Street,” she said — and she did not hear from him for days afterward.

“It was Thursday before he called me,” Carlene said. “I was busy,” Tom replied with a sly smile. He went on to explain that some New Orleans police officers had rewarded him with a couple of cases of cold Dixie beer in the locker room after the game, and it was all downhill from there. But Carlene forgave him, and the two married a few months later.

After retiring from football, Tom and Carlene returned to New Orleans, where he worked in the oil field as a salesman until the late 1980s. He then took a job managing a car dealership for the current Saints owner, Tom Benson, in a seedy section of the city.

After working for Benson for a couple of years, Dempsey took a sales job with another company and eventually retired in 2008. In retirement, he began to exhibit flashes of what Carlene called “irrational anger,” something she had never seen in him before. Then, in 2010, the couple traveled to Las Vegas for what Carlene termed “an old guys convention” — a gathering of retired N.F.L. players. It was there that they met Amen.

“Dr. Amen was talking about guys like Mike Webster who have had brain trouble, and he’s listing all of these symptoms, and I looked at Tom and said, ‘This is you! This is you!,’ ” Carlene said. “He mentioned that he was doing a study on former players, and I told Tom, ‘Go sign up right now.’ And then after he examined Tom, he said, ‘I’m so glad you came in because this is an emergency.’ ”

The emergency that Amen spoke of was visible holes, three of them, in the front part of Dempsey’s brain. Now, every Tuesday and Thursday, Dempsey drives to and from the Tulane Institute of Sports Medicine for physical and occupational therapy.

“This is not the kind of thing that we’re going to be able to fix,” said Dr. Gregory Stewart, the director of the Neurological Care Program at Tulane’s Institute of Sports Medicine. “What we can do is slow down the progression.”

Additionally, Dempsey has lost a considerable amount of weight, which helps to increase the flow of blood to the brain, by getting out to walk the family dogs numerous times each day — despite problems with his fully formed left foot that cause him to hobble a bit — while also paying close attention to what he puts into his body.

“I drink tea instead of beer now,” he said, jokingly.

Despite his daunting diagnosis, Dempsey remains largely jovial and optimistic. The only time he displayed any overtly fearful concern for his future was when he talked about how some of the guys he played with who have suffered from brain disorders, some of them friends of his, have died in nursing homes. Needless to say, he dreads the possibility of ending up, he said, “in one of those places.”

“That’s not going to happen,” Carlene reassured him, shaking her head sternly. “We’re not going to let that happen.”
628 2013-01-28 There is nothing “radical” about the Koontz family’s argument to the Supreme Court that government can’t impose unrelated, unjustified burdens on people seeking land-use permits.

When the Koontzes sought a development permit for a few acres in Orange County, Fla., they were told that they must finance extensive wetlands mitigation on government land — costing up to $150,000. As the lower state courts recognized, the price exceeded any environmental impact from the Koontzes’ proposed land use. So, under United States Supreme Court precedents against extortionate demands on permit applicants, it amounted to a “taking.”

However, the Florida Supreme Court sided with the government, holding that the Fifth Amendment’s anti-extortion rule prohibits only outrageous exactions of land, not money.

The Koontzes are asking the United States Supreme Court to reject this arbitrary distinction and affirm that a shakedown is a shakedown, no matter what currency it comes in.

The Koontzes aren’t challenging the government’s authority to ask for mitigation — only the misuse of mitigation as cover for confiscation.

The writer, an attorney with Pacific Legal Foundation, represents Coy Koontz Jr., the petitioner in Koontz v. St. Johns River Water Management District.
629 2013-01-28 “There were some themes that we were very concerned about,” Mr. Kilpin said, “so we did not pursue the range of opportunities in the United States.”

Max Steel faded away in this country, but it continued to sell in South America, where it eventually became a blockbuster hit, outselling Mattel’s top lines, Hot Wheels and Barbie. More than a decade later, when Mattel was looking for a new line to start in the United States, it found one in the back of its own closet.

“We stepped back and looked at why it was so successful in Latin America,” Mr. Kilpin said. Mattel found that boys loved the idea of someone who could unlock his potential and become a hero. Mattel tweaked the original concept, making the character Max younger and easier for boys to relate to, and it began to plot a campaign to bring the brand back to the United States.

But times have changed, and children are much more media-wise than they were in the late ’90s. To market the revived brand, Mattel took a page from its Monster High franchise, which was introduced in 2010 as a line of fashion dolls, with an emphasis on multimedia, including young adult novels and a Web site that used videos and games.

Mattel’s focus on multimedia is no surprise, said Sean McGowan, an analyst at Needham & Company. “Mattel is a pioneer for creating toys with media property,” he said, citing He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, a boys’ action franchise Mattel started in the 1980s.

Other toy companies have established similar strategies. Hasbro, the No. 2 toy maker, created a production studio in 2009 and worked with Discovery Communications in 2010 to start a cable television channel called the Hub. Last year, the toy maker Jakks Pacific worked with a subsidiary of Dentsu, the Japanese advertising giant, to produce its first animated television series, “Monsuno,” which was supported by a line of toys and other products.

Toy makers are looking for ways to shore up their revenue. Retail toy sales in the United States declined slightly last year, to $16.5 billion from $16.6 billion the year before, according to the NPD Group, a market research company. Mattel is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter earnings on Friday.

Mattel would not reveal the marketing budget for the reintroduction of Max Steel, but Mr. Kilpin said it was “significant.”

“The best way to put perspective around the scale of it is to say it is a major new franchise launch for the company, much like Monster High was,” he said.

Like Monster High, Max Steel will start with a Web site, maxsteel.com, which will begin at the end of February and include games, character biographies and other features. The campaign will include an animated TV series, Mr. Kilpin said, because Max Steel is better suited to episodic television than was Monster High.

In FremantleMedia Enterprises, Mattel found an experienced producer of children’s television entertainment that it said could generate excitement for Max Steel around the globe. The show will have its premiere on March 25 in the United States on the Disney XD channel. Then it will be introduced in more than 100 markets.

The intent of the wide distribution is to create viral marketing on social networks, said Bob Higgins, the executive vice president for children’s and family programming at Fremantle. “Around the world, kids will start hearing about this,” he said. “Kids want to do what their friends do. If they are watching Max Steel, they want to be a part of that party.”

The marketing campaign will also include graphic novels, which help immerse boys deeper into the storytelling, said Elizabeth Kawasaki, senior editorial director at the animé publisher Viz Media.

“There has been always traditional publishing with media tie-in stuff,” she said, but children’s properties once consisted primarily of early reader books and sticker books. “The market has really changed now.”

Other consumer products will follow, including toys that will appear in stores in August. By then, Mattel said it hopes the brand will be embedded in the hearts and minds of boys.

“The first way that they are going to experience the brand is through those storytelling mechanisms,” Mr. Kilpin said. “Marketing ground zero for this franchise will be maxsteel.com.”

“We believe we are experts in play, not just in making toys,” he said. “That’s what our job is today.”
630 2013-01-28 The research company Dynamite Data, which follows prices on behalf of retailers and brands, tracked hundreds of holiday products at major retailers in 2011 and 2012. During a two-week period around Thanksgiving, and were changing prices on about a quarter of those products daily, a significant increase from the previous year. , , Kmart and also changed prices more frequently in 2012.

Even the Web browser a customer uses can make a difference. The Web site Digital Folio, which shows consumers price changes, did side-by-side comparisons of televisions. On Newegg using the Chrome browser, the firm was offered a $997 price on a Samsung television. Using Firefox and Internet Explorer, the price was $1,399.

The firm found a difference on another Samsung television model at , where using Firefox yielded a $199 price and Chrome and Internet Explorer $168.

“A lot of times the price will have a big difference on consumer behavior,” said Larry S. Freed, chief executive of ForeSee, which analyzes customer experiences.

One of the new price-tracking tools is Hukkster, introduced last year by two former merchants. It asks shoppers to install a “hukk it” button on their browsers. Then, when a shopper sees an item she likes, she clicks the button, chooses the color, size and discount she is interested in, tells Hukkster to alert her when the price drops, and waits for an e-mail to that effect.

“We wanted a way to know, on a specific style we want, when it goes on sale,” said a co-founder, Erica Bell. Hukkster also looks for coupon codes that apply to specific items, so a J. Crew nightshirt that was originally $128 came out to $62.99 after a site markdown combined with a 30 percent discount code that Hukkster found.

Currently, Hukkster makes money from referral traffic — it is paid a fee when shoppers buy something via a link from its e-mails. The founders say they are approaching retailers about ways of working with them by, for instance, offering personalized discounts based on shoppers’ “hukks.”

“Retailers are forced to do, say, 30 percent off all sweaters when what they’re really trying to move is the green merino sweater. This provides them the option to do that on a one-to-one basis,” a co-founder, Katie Finnegan, said.

Ms. Hughes, the mother, “hukks” items in specific sizes and colors, and then waits for the notification, like one on a Boden sweater she recently bought for her daughter.

“Now, of course, I’m hukking everything under the sun, including diapers, which I don’t think is their target audience,” she said.

Digital Folio charts the 30-day price history on electronics items at a number of retailers so shoppers can see not only where the lowest price is, but also whether that price might go lower still.

Rather than coming back to the site each time they want to check a product, shoppers can use Digital Folio as a sidebar in the browser. As a shopper pokes around Amazon’s electronics section, for example, the sidebar lists live comparison pricing for the products.

Alerts can give shoppers a competitive edge, said Patrick Carter, president of Digital Folio. He gave the example of a Nikon L26 camera: Amazon was out of stock, but at 10 p.m. one evening, it got the cameras back in stock at a reduced price. By the next morning, Amazon was out of stock again. “You get the alert and you get in on the feeding frenzy,” he said.

Decide.com, which offers price alerts and predictions about where prices are going, recently introduced a price guarantee. If shoppers become a Decide.com member for $4.99 a month and follow Decide’s recommendations to buy something, Decide will refund the difference if it finds a lower price within two weeks of the purchase.

Retailers generally appreciate the sales traffic generated by the tracking tools and do not try to block them even if that means some customers will reap extra discounts.

In some cases, retailers are even changing their practices to adapt to the new landscape. , for example, announced this month that it would match prices from online competitors like Amazon, extending a promotion it tried during the holidays..

Even banks see a potential role for themselves as price monitors. Citibank recently added a feature to its consumer credit cards that gives customers a refund when it finds a lower price on an item within 30 days of purchase.

“Everyone can relate to the buyer’s remorse of buying an item and seeing it for a lower price a day or a couple of days later,” said Jud Linville, chief executive of Citi Cards.

For Citi, the idea is to get consumers using their Citi cards rather than competitors’ cards on big purchases, Mr. Linville said. Consumers must register the purchase online, and there is a long list of exclusions (live animals don’t qualify, nor do antiques, boats or airline tickets).

The price difference must be $25 or more, and Citi searches the retailers’ sites itself. When Citi finds a big enough difference, it e-mails the consumer, asks for a receipt and then mails a check for the difference.

Mr. Linville said about a quarter of purchases over $100 that had been registered so far got a refund, and almost 40 percent of those over $1,000. Some eligible items included a washer, a DKNY suit and a Canon Rebel camera. On average, said a Citi spokeswoman, those who register items get back $80 an item.

While those budget-conscious shoppers are clearly interested in buying, they may not be the type of long-term customers that retailers want to cultivate, said Mr. Freed of ForeSee.

Shoppers who are not price-sensitive, he said, “are the consumers they really want, that they can build loyalty out of — not the consumers that are strictly taking a deal.”
631 2013-01-28 Inditex, a conglomerate that operates more than 5,000 stores worldwide, is perhaps best known for the popular Spanish brand Zara. Company executives in Spain could not be reached for comment on Sunday. But a Bangladeshi newspaper, The Daily Star, quoted an unnamed local representative for the company as saying that Inditex was unaware that the Smart Export factory was making its goods.

“We are now sifting through the purchase order documents to know who were given the work orders and how Smart Export Garment Ltd. got the orders under subcontract,” the unnamed company official told The Daily Star. “The actual receivers of purchase orders have given the work orders to Smart Export Garment in a sneaky way without informing the buyer.”

Global brands have promised Western consumers that clothes are manufactured in safe factories that are inspected through regular audits, often conducted by third-party auditing firms. But the fire at the Smart Export Garments factory has again exposed loopholes in that system: the factory was filling many orders on subcontracts with other suppliers for global brands. It was unclear whether the factory had ever been audited.

The Bangladeshi authorities have confirmed that the building was illegally constructed and lacked proper fire-safety measures, including extinguishers and emergency exits. More than 300 workers were inside the factory when the fire erupted Saturday. Most of the workers were young seamstresses who panicked after discovering that one exit was blocked by a locked metal gate. Some jumped from windows to escape.

“We are sure that this factory doesn’t have a fire license, and they never applied for one,” said Mamun Mahmud, a fire official who is part of a special committee investigating the blaze. He noted that a fire safety license was mandatory for all garment factories in Bangladesh.

Moreover, the factory was apparently hiring teenagers. In Bangladesh, labor laws allow teenagers as young as 14 to work in nonhazardous jobs. The legal age to work in a garment factory is a bit unclear. Mr. Mahmud, the fire official, said garment factories were not supposed to hire anyone younger than 18; others say the age limit is 16. Several of the fire victims were 16 or 17, according to their families, while labor groups say one victim was only 15.

Moyna Akter, 20, had worked in the factory for two months before quitting. But her younger sister, Kohinur, kept working, as a helper, earning as little as $30 a month. She died in the fire.

“I will not work anymore for any garment factory,” Moyna Akter said.

Several workers remain hospitalized with injuries from the fire, including at least one in critical condition. Yet local labor advocates say that the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, a powerful industry trade group, has refused to provide assistance to the injured, since the burned factory was not a member of the group.

One of the injured workers, Samsur Nahar, is said to be unconscious and suffering seizures at Dhaka Medical College Hospital. Family members say she is being kept in a ward so crowded that she does not have a bed.
632 2013-01-28 What seemed grindingly difficult early — the first two sets required 2 hours 13 minutes — seemed much closer to routine by the end as Djokovic accelerated to win in 3:40, which qualified as a middle-distance final in this age of marathons.

“What a joy,” Djokovic said after the match at Rod Laver Arena. “It’s an incredible feeling, winning the trophy once more, and it’s definitely my favorite Grand Slam, my most successful Grand Slam. I love this court.”

Djokovic won his first Grand Slam title here in 2008 and is now the first man in the 45-year Open era to win three consecutive Australian Open singles titles. Only two other men have won three or more Australian championships in a row: Jack Crawford, from 1931 to 1933, and Roy Emerson, from 1963 to 1967.

But neither of those men, both Australian, nor any other tennis champion has covered the angles and the corners quite like the elastic-limbed Djokovic. He dived to his right midway through the second set to hit a forehand behind the baseline, a modern update in this era of supreme defense to the diving volleys that net-rushers like Boris Becker used to hit.

Midway through the fourth set, as he was taking control for good, he sprinted to his left and skidded into nearly a full split with his back to the net as he hit a towering defensive lob that rebooted a point, one that Murray eventually lost with an error.

Then there were the moments — the trademark moments — when he was pushed wide into what was once considered a vulnerable position and responded with something strong and decisive.

“When he’s on defense, he can actually win the point with one shot; that’s an evolution of the game,” said Andre Agassi, a four-time Australian Open champion who handed Djokovic the trophy Sunday night.

Agassi continued, “It’s remarkable to watch him play so far behind the baseline, to watch him play so far inside the baseline, to watch him be so defensive, to watch him be so offensive, watch how he upsets the spin and how he creates his own set of rules out there.”

Murray, another supreme defender, can thrive by those rules, too, just not quite yet in Melbourne.

“His record here is obviously incredible,” Murray said of Djokovic.

Murray has lost all three of his matches against Djokovic in Melbourne Park. He was soundly beaten, 6-4, 6-2, 6-3, in the 2011 final and was beaten last year in a five-set thriller of a semifinal that was a harbinger of Murray’s greater performances to come.

Murray defeated Djokovic on his way to the Olympic gold medal in London and then in an epic five-set final at the United States Open to win his first Grand Slam singles title.

But he could not use that for leverage in Australia and has now dropped to 1-5 in Grand Slam singles finals.

Before this final, Murray had said that he was “ready for the pain,” but he was presumably not referring to foot pain. He was treated for a blister after losing the second set, and when the match was over and Djokovic was celebrating, Murray sat on his seat, removed his shoes, tossed them aside and raised his racket high as if to smash it in frustration.

He refrained while also refraining from using his foot problem as an excuse, even if there were many a grim face among the sizable Murray entourage.

“I very rarely get blisters, but, I mean, 90 percent of the players on the tour will have played this tournament with some sort of blister or problem,” Murray said. “It had no bearing at all on the result. It just hurts a little bit when you run.”

Running, and then running some more, is an obligation when Murray and Djokovic meet. Although both players cracked with more regularity than usual (Djokovic had 61 unforced errors to 47 winners), there were still double-digit rallies in abundance as they mixed spins and paces with surgical care and fought for breath when the running was done.

“When you’re playing the points like we were there, the positions you’re sort of getting yourself into on the court, you expect those sorts of things,” Murray said of his blister.

What was unexpected was that two of the best returners in the world were unable to break each other’s serves at all in the first two and a half sets and that Murray never broke Djokovic’s at all.

Murray’s best chance came in the second game of the second set when Djokovic fell behind by 0-40, serving into the wind. But Djokovic put away two forehand volleys, and Murray just missed a backhand on the three break points as Djokovic held firm.

“Crucial hold,” Djokovic said. “After that, I just felt mentally a little bit lighter and more confident on the court than I’ve done in the first hour or so.”

And then — in the tiebreaker that seemed inevitable — there was the feather. Serving at 2-3 after missing his first serve, Murray prepared to hit his second and then spotted a small feather drifting into his line of sight, one that had come from a bird perched high on the edges of the open roof overhead.

Murray stopped his service motion, retrieved the feather before it hit the court and proceeded to double-fault to fall behind, 2-4. He won only one more point in the tiebreaker from there.

“It just caught my eye before I served,” he said of the feather. “I thought it was a good idea to move it. Maybe it wasn’t, because I obviously double-faulted.

“No, you know, at this level it comes down to just a few points here or there. My probably biggest chance was at the beginning of the second set. Didn’t quite get it. When Novak got his chance at the end of the third, he got his.”

The first break of the match came in the third set, with Murray serving at 3-4, and Djokovic broke him twice more in the final set. By then Murray had already squandered his fourth and last break point, missing a backhand return and then whacking himself in the forehead with his racket strings.

Murray was presumably not expecting that sort of pain, either, but playing Djokovic on his court, in his redoubt, is a now-annual source of all kinds of misery.
633 2013-01-29 The push to make MF Global customers nearly whole, a goal now surprisingly within reach, is a remarkable turnaround for the brokerage firm....
634 2013-01-29 Several holdouts from a debt swap who are pensioners traveled to New York, a month before an appeals court is to make an important decision on a legal case that has pitted the hedge fund manager Paul E. Singer against the government of Argentina....
635 2013-01-29 The debate over royalties has become especially heated over the last couple of years....
636 2013-01-29 Part 12: The singer-songwriter reflects on her collaboration with Ray Charles, and discusses how she sees her relationship with fame.
637 2013-01-29 Part 11: The singer-songwriter shares her advice for young musicians, and talks about the music teachers who influenced her as a child.
638 2013-01-29 Microsoft began what it calls a reinvention of its Office product for consumers, one that they subscribe to for a $100 annual fee, rather than buying outright as they have for years....
639 2013-01-29 Up Next in News
640 2013-01-29 In Italy and the United States, consumers are glum but stock prices have been rising at an impressive clip....
641 2013-01-29 Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe.
642 2013-01-29 Cleanup crews were skimming oil on the Mississippi River near Vicksburg on Monday after a barge struck a bridge, rupturing a compartment holding 80,000 gallons of oil. The authorities said that the spill was light and that only a sheen had been spotted. Orange booms were stretched across part of the river downstream, and small boats patrolled the area as oil was pumped from the ruptured tank into another tank on the same barge. Officials did not yet have an estimate of how much oil had been transferred or how much had spilled into the Mississippi. A Coast Guard spokesman said a tug was pushing two tank barges when the crash occurred around 1:30 a.m. Sunday. Both barges were damaged, but only one leaked. The authorities declared the bridge safe after an inspection.
643 2013-01-29 Shares of the Royal Bank of Scotland stumbled on Tuesday after it emerged that federal authorities are pursuing a guilty plea against an Asian subsidiary at the center of an interest rate manipulation scandal....
644 2013-01-29 He may face a right-wing primary challenger in his next Senate race....
645 2013-01-29 A new report on companies' opinions of social media advertising shows that companies are spending more on that strategy, though they are concerned with getting an accurate measurement of its effectiveness....
646 2013-01-29 Metropolitan Diary: A man sitting alone on the R train catches the attention of a female passenger too shy to speak....
647 2013-01-29 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
648 2013-01-29 OpenTable, the online reservation business, says it is acquiring the start-up Foodspotting to make booking a table a bit more intimate and social....
649 2013-01-29 As leader of the S.E.C., Mary Jo White may be required to recuse herself from some important decisions. | A former senior trader at the Jefferies Group is charged with defrauding clients and the government. | A scandal involving an old Italian ban...
650 2013-01-29 The 2020 United States Open will be held at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, N.Y. It will be sixth time the course has hosted the event. Winged Foot last hosted the Open in 2006, remembered as much for Geoff Ogilvy’s victory as for Phil Mickelson’s collapse on the final hole.
651 2013-01-29 The Nets did not need much from Lopez, but he played efficiently, going 6 for 8 from the field in just 28 minutes, and kept up his push to make the All-Star team, perhaps as an injury replacement for Boston’s Rajon Rondo.

Rondo was lost to a season-ending knee injury Sunday. It is now up to Commissioner David Stern to choose a replacement, and Lopez is sure to be high on the list of candidates. When the reserves were announced last week, the Nets were left as the best team in the league without a single All-Star.

Having already been passed over twice — first by the fans (who chose the starters) and then the coaches (who selected the reserves) — Lopez knows better than to predict anything.

“I’m not really thinking about it, honestly,” he said with a chuckle. “I was busy getting ready for this game. We got Miami coming in in two days, so that’s definitely the main thing right now.”

The campaign for Lopez began in the stands Monday. Fans in both end zones held up placards that spelled out “All-Star” in all capital letters, along with large cutouts of Lopez’s face and various signs indicating that Lopez had been robbed. Several fans started an “All-Star” chant when Lopez stepped to the foul line early in the game.

“I’m just thankful that we have support out here like that,” Lopez said.

Orlando (14-30) lost its sixth straight game but could take solace in the encouraging play of Nikola Vucevic, the young center acquired in the Howard deal, who finished with 18 points and 9 rebounds in 38 minutes.

Eventually, perhaps, Vucevic will justify the trade. But Lopez is clearly the superior player right now. He leads all centers in scoring, with 18.6 points per game, and is shooting 52.3 percent from the field.

The commissioner can choose any player he deems worthy and is not obliged to select another guard to replace Rondo in next month’s game. Other candidates could include Atlanta’s Josh Smith and Al Horford, Boston’s Paul Pierce and Indiana’s David West.

The Nets’ star guards, Williams and Johnson, could receive consideration as well, although both have struggled with consistency this season.

“I just hope it’s one of our three guys,” Nets Coach P. J. Carlesimo said.

Monday’s game served as a final warm-up for the tougher schedule to come. The Nets will play host to the Miami Heat, the Chicago Bulls and the Los Angeles Lakers over the next eight days.

The Nets easily built an 18-point lead in the first half, survived a lackluster third quarter and cruised to the final buzzer after pounding the Magic in the opening minutes of the fourth.

Maurice Harkless, one of the key acquisitions in the Howard deal and a native of Queens, scored a career-high 16 points and helped ignite a third-quarter rally, when the Magic cut the deficit to 6 points. But the Nets bounced back quickly, opening the fourth quarter with a 9-0 run, then burying Orlando with a flurry of 3-pointers from Bogans, Johnson, C. J. Watson and Mirza Teletovic.

The Nets won their eighth straight home game and are now 11-3 in January, giving them two 11-win months in a season for the first time in franchise history. They went 11-4 in November.

The game was filled with oddities, from Reggie Evans throwing a rare over-the-shoulder pass to Johnson for a 3-pointer, to Orlando’s Glen Davis catching Gerald Wallace in midair after Wallace converted a layup. Davis bear-hugged Wallace on the way down, held him for a second, and then gently returned him to the court.
652 2013-01-29 An Israeli human rights group on Monday accused the military of “extensively and systematically” violating its own rules of engagement in suppressing Palestinian demonstrators in the West Bank, contributing to dozens of deaths in recent years. According to a report by the group B’Tselem, 56 Palestinians have been killed in clashes with the Israeli military since 2005, most of them when live ammunition was fired at stone throwers. The Israeli military dismissed the report as biased, and said it focused on events that were old or still under investigation. It called specific episodes in the report exceptions to military policy, not the rule.
653 2013-01-29 “Brands make sure that their ads never show up on porn sites, so we’re basically saying, why not do the same with piracy sites?” said Jonathan Taplin, the director of the Innovation Lab, which is part of U.S.C.’s Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism.

But some of the ad networks cited by the report have disputed its methodology and meaning. And even its supporters complain that the online ad system — a chain of Web sites, ad servers, digital publishers and agency trading desks that buy and sell ads at a rapid pace — operates in a way that makes it difficult to know where to point the finger.

The researchers studied the fragments of computer code that were appended to the ads they found on sites suspected of piracy over a year. The sites were drawn from a report by Google listing sites that had received the most complaints from copyright holders.

Representatives of Google and OpenX, two of the largest companies on U.S.C.’s list, did not deny the prevalence of their codes. But they disputed its meaning, saying that their technology is widely used by third parties — like ad agency trading desks and advertisers — so the presence of their code did not necessarily implicate them in a transaction.

“To grossly overcalculate our network, you’re also grossly overcalculating how many of these sites we are funding,” said Andrea Faville, a Google spokeswoman. Mitch Stoltz, a staff lawyer at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, was more aggressive, calling the U.S.C. report “a little bit of analysis resting on false premises.”

The report comes a year after the failure of the Stop Online Piracy Act, a Congressional bill that would have given additional powers to federal law enforcement to prosecute copyright infringement. The bill was supported by the media and entertainment world, but activists and technology companies said it would violate due process and privacy.

Since then, the government has tried to press industry to regulate itself.

“We believe that effective enforcement must involve private sector stakeholder efforts,” Victoria Espinel, the United States intellectual property enforcement coordinator, said in a statement. “Voluntary best practices must be practical and effective, must respect privacy, due process, competition, free speech, and must protect legitimate uses of the Internet.”

A lack of progress toward self-regulation has frustrated media companies. They say the opacity of the online ad system makes it nearly impossible to hold any party responsible for the ads.

“The ecosystem for online ads is incredibly complicated,” said Cary Sherman, chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America. “Everybody can point the finger at other people.”

One example is programmatic buying, a technique used by networks to place ads on sites based primarily on demographics. As a result, a brand may not know every site where its ad will appear.

One solution floated in the ad business is a blacklist of offending Web sites. Dick O’Brien, the executive vice president and director of government relations at the American Association of Advertising Agencies, a trade group, said this would be difficult. “If an organization like ours tries to create a list and organize a boycott, that opens us up to antitrust issues,” he said.

Advertising agencies, including OMD, a digital agency part of the Omnicom Media Group, one of the largest agencies in the world, said they were examining the report, but so far little significant action has been taken. Stephen Kline, the senior counsel for privacy and regulatory matters at the Omnicom Media Group, described the challenge for brands and agencies to identify piracy sites that appear as quickly as they disappear as “a little bit of Whac-a-Mole.”

As Mr. Taplin of the Innovation Lab sees it, Google has effectively provided a blacklist with its Transparency Report, which lists the sites that have received the most takedown requests from copyright owners. But these are only requests, not proof of illegal behavior.

The next edition of the U.S.C. report is due in mid-February. Mr. Taplin said it would name brands that advertise on pirate sites. In an interview, he said he was not ready to identify those brands, but he noted that insurance companies were among the biggest offenders.

Mr. Taplin said the report had not been done for any media company or organization, but, as a veteran of the music and film industries, he also made no secret of his sympathies with Big Content.

He told the story of his friend Levon Helm of the Band, who died last year. (Mr. Taplin was a producer of the band’s 1978 concert film, “The Last Waltz.”) Mr. Helm, he said, had to tour, despite having cancer, to make up for money he lost from royalties, in part because of piracy.
654 2013-01-29 Generic drug companies and insurers are taking their own steps to oppose or amend the state bills, which they characterize as pre-emptive moves to deter the use of biosimilars, even before any get to market.

“All of these things are put in there for a chilling effect on these biosimilars,” said Brynna M. Clark, director of state affairs for the Generic Pharmaceutical Association. The limits, she said, “don’t sound too onerous but undermine confidence in these drugs and are burdensome.”

Genentech, which is owned by , makes Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin, the best-selling cancer drugs in the world. Amgen makes Enbrel, the drugs Epogen and Aranesp, and the drugs Neupogen and Neulasta for protecting patients from infections. All have billions of dollars in annual sales and, with the possible exception of Enbrel, are expected to lose patent protection in the next several years.

The trench fighting at the state level is the latest phase in a battle over the rules for adding competition to the biotechnology drug market as called for in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.

A related battle on the federal level is whether biosimilars will have the same generic name as the brand name product. If they did not, pharmacists could not substitute the biosimilar for the original, even if states allowed it.

Biosimilars are unlikely to be available in the for at least two more years, though they have been on the market in for several years. And the regulatory uncertainty appears to be diminishing enthusiasm among some companies for developing such drugs.

“We’re still dealing with chaos,” said Craig A. Wheeler, the chief executive of , which is developing biosimilars. “This is a pathway that neither industry nor the knows how to use.”

Biotech drugs, known in the industry as biologics, are much more complex than pills like or .

That makes it extremely difficult to tell if a copy of a biological drug is identical to the original. Even slight changes in the cells that make the proteins can change the drug’s properties.

The 1984 law governing generics does not cover biologicals, which barely existed then. That is why it was addressed in the 2010 law.

One reason generic pills are so inexpensive is that state laws generally allow pharmacists to substitute a generic for a brand-name drug unless the doctor explicitly asks them not to. That means generic drug manufacturers need not spend money on sales and marketing.

The bills being proposed in state legislatures would expand state substitution laws to include biosimilars. So Amgen and Genentech say the bills support the development of biosimilars.

But the bills would impose restrictions that do not apply to chemically produced pills. For a substitution, they say, the Food and Drug Administration must find a biosimilar “interchangeable” with the branded product. The F.D.A. has said interchangeability will be a higher standard than merely being similar to the branded product.

Some of the bills would also require patient consent for the substitution, for the pharmacist to notify the doctor if a switch is made and for the pharmacist and doctor to maintain records of the switch for years.

Backers say these safeguards are necessary to enable the tracing of any safety problems that might arise with a biosimilar.

“These are really complex, highly sensitive molecules,” said State Senator Patricia Vance of , who plans to introduce a bill. “We want to make sure we are not hurting people.”

The generic drug association and insurers do not object to limiting substitution to drugs declared interchangeable by the F.D.A.

But they say that once the F.D.A. makes that determination, the other restrictions are unnecessary and are there merely to deter substitution.

Gillian Woollett, who tracks biosimilars for Avalere Health, a Washington advisory firm, said extra restrictions on substitution could put the state bills into conflict with the federal law, which defines interchangeability as meaning that a biosimilar can be substituted without the involvement of the prescribing doctor.

Ms. Woollett said the lobbying efforts by the biotech companies, which she characterized as “putting a few more tree trunks on the road,” might not make much difference as long as insurers have policies encouraging use of the biosimilars. She noted that only a small percentage of biologicals are dispensed through retail pharmacies. Most are infused or injected in a hospital or doctor’s office. That has not reduced the intensity of the skirmishes in state houses.

Dr. John O’Bannon III, a Republican delegate who introduced the bill that was passed last week in the Virginia House, said he did so because as a practicing neurologist, he was familiar with biologicals. Then he added, “The Amgen folks actually did come and talk to me.”

Amgen gave $22,000 to Virginia state legislators in both 2011 and 2012, more than double the $11,000 it gave in 2010, according to the Virginia Public Access Project. Dr. O’Bannon received $1,500 over the last two years.

In , a bill has cleared a committee in the State Senate, though it was amended to remove some restrictions.

“Genentech was the one that brought the bill to me,” said State Senator Dick Dever, a Republican, who introduced the bill.

In on Monday, the House Public Health Committee approved a bill, but lawmakers, responding to objections from the generic association, removed the requirement that patients consent to any substitution. Ed Clere, chairman of the committee and author of the bill, said the bill “doesn’t do anything to prevent or discourage the use of biosimilars.” He said the bill had been brought to him by Genentech and supported by , which is based in Indiana.

Also supporting the push for such legislation is the Alliance for Safe Biologic Medicines.

This is not the first time drug companies have turned to states to try to blunt generic competition. In the late 1990s, DuPont Pharmaceutical pushed for laws that would restrict substitution for its blood-thinning drug Coumadin, known generically as warfarin, on the grounds that the drug was extremely difficult to use safely.
655 2013-01-29 Not that he was worried. “I had an eight-stroke lead,” he said. “So I just needed to stay upright and I was going to be fine.”

Woods, 37, has won this tournament seven times. After five of his previous six titles, he has gone on to win at least one major.

Does Woods have his aura back? “I won this tournament by four shots, so that’s something I’m proud of,” he said, adding, “I would like to win eight, nine times a year.”

It took Woods’s threesome nearly four hours to complete its final 11 holes. Until the wind and the waiting wore him down, Woods’s play harked back to his performance here during his injury-shortened season in 2008, when he won his sixth tournament title with a record eight-stroke victory against Ryuji Imada. Five months later, he won the United States Open on the same course.

As was the case in Woods’s glory days, he pulled away from the pack on the par 5s. Snedeker played the par 5s in minus-6. Woods played the same holes in minus-12, which was reason enough for him to smile despite his finish: bogey, double bogey, par, bogey, par.

“Pretty much did everything well this week and built myself a nice little cushion,” Woods said. “I had some mistakes at the end, but all my good play before that really allowed me to afford those mistakes.”

If there was a single shot Monday that signaled that the Woods of old was back, it was his second on the par-5 ninth.

On the tee box, Woods backed off his ball after hearing the click of a camera, a common sound in any Woods gallery but particularly so on this day, when the gates were opened to the nonpaying public.

After glaring at the offending photographer, Woods set up again for his shot and blocked the ball with a swing so loose his driver flew out of his hands. “Thank you,” he said in a comment directed at the photographer, who had wisely moved on.

“It was not a good time to do that,” Woods said later.

He was still steaming as he walked off the tee, muttering an expletive under his breath as he walked toward his ball, which was right of the cart path, in a fenced-off area near a temporary tournament tent.

After receiving a free drop, Woods took his 3-iron and hit a 217-yard cut shot that landed on the fairway, 85 yards from the pin. He hit onto the green and two-putted for a par that was routine only in his world.

When he arrived at No. 15, a 480-yard par-4, Woods was seven strokes ahead of Snedeker, the leader in the clubhouse. He hit his drive into a hazard to the left to set up a two-putt from 13 feet for a double bogey.

Woods hit five fairways in his fourth round after finding 12 of 14 in his second. In his best years, Woods was never the straightest off the tee. His genius was evident in his recovery shots, like the one he hit out of the bunker on the par-3 11th that curled to within inches of the cup.

“My short game was back to how I know it can be,” Woods said.

He added, “That allowed me to save some pars, save some birdies and move my way up the board.”

The resumption of the fourth round at 11:10 a.m. local time prevented any of the tour rookies who did not finish Sunday from taking part in the Monday qualifying for this week’s event, the Waste Management Phoenix Open.

Among those affected was Brad Fritsch, who began the fourth round in second place and needed to finish in the top 10 to earn a place in this week’s field. Playing in the group directly ahead of Woods, he got off to a spectacular start, sticking his tee shot at the par-3 eighth while Woods watched from a few feet away.

“My heart rate was up a little bit on that shot,” said Fritsch, who joked that he appreciated the large gallery, including Woods, turning out to watch him hit.

Fritsch missed the birdie putt but squeezed into the next tournament with a 75 that left him in a tie for ninth, seven strokes behind Woods, who, like Fritsch, left the grounds excited about the rest of the year.
656 2013-01-29 A United States F-16 fighter jet may have crashed on Monday during a training exercise over the Adriatic Sea off the coast of Italy, and the Air Force said the status of its pilot was unknown. Search efforts, aided by Italy’s Coast Guard, were under way. The Air Force said only that it had “lost contact” with the F-16 around 8 p.m.
657 2013-01-29 President Vladimir V. Putin has dismissed Magomedsalam M. Magomedov as the president of the Russian republic of Dagestan, the Kremlin said Monday, signaling concern over rising Islamist violence, corruption and political rivalries in the Caucasus. Mr. Magomedov, 49, will be succeeded by Ramazan G. Abdulatipov, 67, a politician from Mr. Putin’s party, United Russia. Dagestan is 340 miles east of the Black Sea resort of Sochi, which will host the 2014 Winter Olympics. “Dagestan is without question the most important security concern in the region and, with the Sochi Olympics approaching, the Kremlin needs to impose order,” said Akhmed Yarlikapov, an expert on Dagestan with the Russian Academy of Sciences.
658 2013-01-29 DmC is the latest video game in the Devil May Cry series born on the PlayStation 2 in late 2001. As before, its playable protagonist is a man named Dante, who needs to kill demons for some greater good, this time in a modern city possessed by them.

To someone only watching them, Devil May Cry games seem like a teenage boy’s profane hormonal vision of what the most fantastic adulthood might be like: the adventures of a carefree, impossibly coifed man who enjoys the admiration of sexy women, has easy access to pizza and wields the weapons needed to eliminate the many devils infesting our world.

To those who play them, Devil May Cry games are virtual violence as jazz, with points for variety and deductions for doing the same thing repeatedly. Players have a character to control and demonic enemies to dispatch using an extraordinary mix of sword- , ax- and gun-based maneuvers. The games’ creators have mapped dozens of strikes, shots, parries and evasions to different combinations of button presses on a controller. As fingers stretch, reach and tap with purposeful changes in timing, you might guess that this is what a master trumpet player’s hands feel like.

To those fingers, the new DmC is familiar, though less stressful than its predecessors. Like so many modern games, it is easier than those before it. Our hero is tougher, and survival through the game’s 10 hours is all but guaranteed. Going unhit, however, remains a challenge that will be met only by those players swift of reflex and interested in improv.

To the eyes and ears, the new DmC has just a little more to do with things that might matter to an adult. The debt-obsessed master villain ensures this. Dante himself remains a fantasy of puberty, opening this game in bed with two attractive women before reluctantly assuming responsibility for fighting an evil only he, of course, can defeat to save the world. But what wakes him feels more real. There’s a report blaring on the Raptor News Network, the game’s fake Fox News, about supposed terrorist threats that turn out to be the exhortations of the in-game version of Occupy activists or Anonymous hacktivists. Bob Barbas, who is Raptor’s Bill O’Reilly, grumbles about these people and then wishes aloud that someone would shoot them. The game assumes you might have an opinion about this. That’s new for this series.

It doesn’t take long to deduce that DmC’s main economy-wrecking bad guy is a demon king, and that Bob Barbas is a demon minion. That is its own kind of simple, blame-absolving fantasy. DmC isn’t asking us to think too much.

Players spend most of the time fighting street-level demons who neither invite nor evoke any social commentary. The eventual confrontation with Mundus feels disappointingly less like recession revenge and more like a clip from a monster movie, though the scene preceding it — a climb up the floors of a skyscraper in which employees have been motivated with the slogans “Sell More Debt” and “Greed Is Great” — will fit a time capsule well.

The showdown with Barbas is more specific and perhaps contains a bit of acting out against news media that have had so much to say about violent games. Dante plunges into a city’s reflection in a river and approaches an inversion of the Raptor News tower. He walks on the underside in this flipped cityscape; at this moment, the whole scene is upside down. The player and Dante find Raptor’s core, where a huge digitized version of Barbas’s head taunts and attacks with cackles and energy beams. It’s Dante’s demon-fighting skills versus an avatar of punditry.

Mr. O’Reilly isn’t the only possible target here and maybe not even the most apt. But while DmC may tease and then fail to deliver the satisfaction of giving those responsible for the great recession a hearty wallop, it offers this consolation prize. In DmC we can’t vicariously slay that which would destroy real society, but we can at least have a showdown with an entity whose contributions are dubious: a television talking head.

DmC, developed by Ninja Theory and published by Capcom Entertainment, is available for the PC, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. It is rated M (Mature) for gore, intense violence, nudity and strong language.
659 2013-01-29 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — A gauge of investment plans by American businesses improved in December, a sign that companies were betting that the economy would pick up despite fears over tighter fiscal policy.

The Commerce Department said on Monday that new orders for capital goods increased 4.6 percent last month. The category of nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for investment plans, edged up 0.2 percent in December.

In a further sign of business confidence, the November reading on capital spending plans was revised higher to show a 3 percent gain, up from the 2.6 percent rise reported a month ago.

Many economists had expected businesses to invest more timidly late last year because of uncertainty over government spending cuts and tax increases that had been scheduled to begin this month. But Congress struck a deal to avoid or postpone most of the austerity measures.

Despite the uncertainty, the new data pointed to growing economic momentum as companies sensed improved consumer demand.

“It certainly seems to us that companies are slowly but surely expanding,” said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer at the Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, N.Y.
660 2013-01-30 The woman wanted turkey on whole wheat. With mustard. There was a stir. The police responded. So did reporters....
661 2013-01-30 Monday night, the show attracted an audience smaller than any episode in its first season, and one significantly lower than the show's premiere had in 2012....
662 2013-01-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
663 2013-01-30 A 45-page presentation by Sergio Marchionne, the Fiat Group chief executive, outlined an expansion of Fiat's tenuous beachhead established in America by the tiny 500 to a full-scale invasion by 2016....
664 2013-01-30 How do you manage your books? How do you ensure that they are reasonably up to date and in-order?...
665 2013-01-30 According to the broker, this company has strong profits, more than three times the industry average. I would be eager to look under the hood and find out how the company has produced those results....
666 2013-01-30 Here was a detail, Tania Gordillo thought, that could have been lifted directly from her own living room. It was about 10 minutes into the speech on immigration reform President Obama delivered Tuesday afternoon in Las Vegas.

A high-school boy in Nevada, the president had said, “watched his friends come of age, driving around with their new licenses, earning some extra cash from their summer jobs at the mall.” These were things, Mr. Obama said, that the boy couldn’t do because he had been brought illegally by his parents to the United States as a child.

“That is the truth about that,” said Ms. Gordillo, 43, of Corona, Queens. Her two eldest children were born in Ecuador and raised in Queens, without citizenship or a visa. “When they were in school, their friends were taking out driving licenses,” she said.

The Gordillos, a mother, a father and two children, came to the United States in 1993. In 1996 she paid a lawyer $2,500 to file papers for them, but, she says, she was swindled out of the money. Four other children were born in New York, so they were United States citizens by birth. But the other half of the family has searched for a legal way out of limbo. Like the young man cited by the president, the two older Gordillo children have applied to a program created last year by the Obama administration that might give them a path to citizenship.

No place in the country has been shaped by immigrants as much as New York, starting in the 17th century, with the first European, African and Caribbean arrivals, and extending to the end of the 20th century, when another surge of immigrants brought new life to streets where the population had been shrinking for decades. With this history, the twisted lines of immigration policy were vividly drawn in New York.
667 2013-01-30 A petition circulated by State Senator Kathleen A. Marchione, a Republican from Saratoga County, that condemns the new gun laws has more than 118,000 signatures. Ms. Marchione, a member of the National Rifle Association, has proposed the repeal of many provisions in the bill, but her effort is mostly symbolic.

“The reality is that the Assembly would never pass it,” said Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, the Senate Republican leader, “the governor would never pass it, so I think we move on now to other issues.”

Thousands of gun owners gathered for a rally at the Capitol the weekend after the bill was enacted, on Jan. 15, while others assembled in Buffalo, where the Republican nominee for governor in 2010, Carl P. Paladino, denounced Mr. Cuomo and the “gutless, cowardly legislators” who supported his legislation.

And thousands of people have signed petitions seeking the impeachment of Mr. Cuomo — again, not a likely outcome, given that he enjoys broad legislative support.

Frank Riess, a real estate appraiser and firearms dealer from the Hudson Valley, was so upset that he bought the domain name ImpeachAndrewCuomo.com the morning after the State Senate approved the laws. Mr. Riess acknowledged that Mr. Cuomo had not done anything that would provide a legal rationale for impeachment, but said he still hoped the governor would take notice of his petition, which now has more than 19,000 signatures.

“We were just trying to make a statement, to show other firearm enthusiasts that you’re not alone in your frustration,” he said.

Mr. Cuomo and his allies are not looking back. More than 7 in 10 voters across the state supported an expanded ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in a Siena College poll conducted after the governor proposed the measures.

“It’s very important not to mistake the noise that the other side is good at creating for expressing the sentiment of the people,” said Richard M. Aborn, the president of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City. “It does not. It does not even express the sentiment of gun owners. It’s noise based on fear, and I think the governor was quite right to say we’re going to do this. He got it done with lightning speed and crystal clarity, and now we move on.”

Still, Mr. Cuomo was concerned enough about the outcry that his office urged gun control groups to rally their supporters on his behalf. One group, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence, started a counter-petition so residents could thank the governor and lawmakers for their action, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence e-mailed its supporters to praise the new law and also sent a letter of commendation to legislative leaders.

Many gun rights organizations believe their best chance at overturning all or part of the new law is through litigation.

“Much of what the governor has gotten in New York is liable to fall because of court challenges and the like because much of it’s unconstitutional,” the N.R.A. president, David Keene, said in a recent interview on an Albany radio station.

James D. Tresmond, a lawyer in western New York who spends most of his time handling criminal defense cases, filed a lawsuit challenging the law on Tuesday on behalf of two local gun owners in State Supreme Court in Buffalo. He said he hoped it would become a class-action lawsuit: with the publicity the suit has generated on Facebook, he said, he has been contacted by more than 14,000 potential plaintiffs in the past two weeks.

“They want to contribute money,” Mr. Tresmond said. “They want to get rid of this governor. They want to get rid of the legislators that voted for it.”

“I think this legislation,” he added, “just falls off the edge of the earth with regard to the constitutional rights of the people that are involved.”

Supporters of the gun law are also facing criticism from some law enforcement officials. While district attorneys and police chiefs have praised the measure, the New York State Sheriffs’ Association has criticized a number of provisions in the law and also objected to what it described as the Legislature’s “steamroller approach to important legislation.”

In Schuyler County, the sheriff, William E. Yessman Jr., posted on Facebook to reassure residents that no one from his office “will be coming to take your firearms from you.” In Chemung County, the sheriff, Christopher J. Moss, who said his office had received hundreds of phone calls from worried gun owners, scheduled two information sessions this week about the new law.

“I’m sure it will be a venting process as well because people are very upset,” he said.

One issue that law enforcement officials are preparing to confront is possible civil disobedience. The gun control bill requires people who currently own assault weapons to register them with the state by April 15, 2014.

“I don’t think I’ve talked to a person yet who’s said they’re registering,” said George W. Rogero, a handgun safety instructor from Orange County who operates a Web site about gun rights. Mr. Rogero said he believed the registration provision for assault weapons would be followed by an effort by the state to confiscate guns.

“They’re not going to stop until we don’t have any right to have a firearm, and just to heck with the Second Amendment,” Mr. Rogero said. “It doesn’t mean anything to them. They don’t like it, they don’t want it and they just want to ignore it.”
668 2013-01-30 A single grave site honoring an American crew whose plane crashed during the Vietnam War is being unearthed so examiners can identify the remains. The work began Tuesday at Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery near St. Louis, which has held the remains of some of the 10-man crew for over four decades. The crew’s plane went down in Laos in 1969, and it took three months for search teams to find scattered skeletal remains. DNA tests will be done to determine whose remains were buried in Missouri and whose were left behind.
669 2013-01-30 The Coast Guard said Tuesday that about 7,000 gallons of crude oil was unaccounted for after a barge crash on Sunday near Vicksburg on the Mississippi River, about 16 miles of which remained closed to traffic. Petty Officer Third Class Jonathan Lally said it was not clear that all 7,000 gallons had leaked into the river. Some of it, he said, could have seeped into other parts of the barge. Crews were preparing to pump the oil from the leaking barge to another vessel that was en route, and Petty Officer Lally said it was unclear how long that would take or when the river might reopen. At least 54 vessels were idled on Tuesday. The barge, which crashed into a railroad bridge while being pushing by a tug, was carrying 80,000 gallons of light crude in the tank that was damaged.
670 2013-01-30 In five of the 10 replacements, All Nippon said that the main battery had showed an unexpectedly low charge. An unexpected drop in a 787’s main battery also occurred on the All Nippon flight that had to make an emergency landing in Japan on Jan. 16.

The airline also revealed that in three instances, the main battery had failed to start normally and had had to be replaced, along with the charger. In other cases, one battery showed an error reading and another, used to start the auxiliary power unit, failed. All of the events occurred from May to December of last year. The malfunctioning batteries, made by the Japanese manufacturer GS Yuasa, were serviced by All Nippon maintenance crew members. (The battery from the plane involved in the emergency landing was sent back to GS Yuasa.)

Japan Airlines, which operates seven 787s, said Wednesday that there had been “several cases” in which maintenance crew members needed to replace 787 batteries after irregularities, but the carrier declined to give details. The switches were not considered a safety risk and were conducted “within the scope of regular maintenance,” said Kazunori Kidosaki, a company spokesman.

Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for the National Transportation Safety Board, said investigators had only recently heard that there had been “numerous issues with the use of these batteries” on 787s. She said the board had asked Boeing, All Nippon and other airlines for information about the problems.

“That will absolutely be part of the investigation,” she said.

Boeing, based in Chicago, has said repeatedly that any problems with the batteries can be contained without threatening the planes and their passengers.

Boeing officials said the need to replace the batteries also suggested that safeguards were activated to prevent overheating and keep the drained batteries from being recharged. Company officials said the batteries can drain too deeply if left on without being connected to power sources.  Trying to recharge such batteries could generate excessive heat, so safety mechanisms lock out any attempts to do that.

Boeing officials said that improperly connecting a battery can also render it unusable.  And they acknowledged that some of the new batteries were not lasting as long as intended. They said that could cause airlines to replace them more frequently but did not pose a safety problem.

A GS Yuasa official, Tsutomu Nishijima, said battery exchanges were part of the normal operations of a plane but would not comment further.

The Federal Aviation Administration decided in 2007 to allow Boeing to use the lithium-ion batteries instead of older, more stable types as long as it took safety measures to prevent or contain a fire. But once Boeing put in those safeguards, it did not revisit its basic design even as more evidence surfaced of the risks involved, regulators said.

In a little-noticed test in 2010, the F.A.A. found that the kind of lithium-ion chemistry that Boeing planned to use — lithium cobalt — was the most flammable of several possible types. The test found that batteries of that type provided the most power, but could also overheat more quickly.

In 2011, a lithium-ion battery on a Cessna business jet started smoking while it was being charged, prompting Cessna to switch to traditional nickel-cadmium batteries.

The safety board said Tuesday that it had still not determined what caused a fire on Jan. 7 on a Japan Airlines 787 that was parked at Logan Airport in Boston. The fire occurred nine days before an All Nippon jet made its emergency landing after pilots smelled smoke in the cockpit.

Federal regulators said it was also possible that flaws in the manufacturing process could have gone undetected and caused the recent incidents.

The batteries’ maker X-rays each battery before shipping to look for possible defects.

But some battery experts said that scans might be unable to detect minute anomalies in the battery, like trapped micro-shavings in any of the tightly wound conductive material used in each battery’s eight cells.

So far, Boeing appears reluctant to consider alternatives. Lithium-ion, experts say, is particularly attractive because it packs more power in a smaller size, and is therefore lighter than more traditional battery designs — a factor that was part of Boeing’s strategy to build a lighter aircraft. Also for that reason, it is now widely used in personal electronics and is finding greater acceptance in other industries.

But unless investigators can point out the precise cause of the 787’s battery problems or how to prevent them, some experts believe Boeing may have little choice than to pick more traditional battery designs to restore confidence in its airplanes.

Switching batteries would come at a steep cost, and would most likely entail months of engineering work as well as new certification by regulators. It would also go against the efforts by other manufacturers, including Airbus and Gulfstream, to adopt lithium-ion batteries in airplanes.

Regulators have long known about the risks of lithium-ion batteries, which can overheat and ignite — a condition known as thermal runaway — if improperly charged or discharged. For that reason, the batteries are integrated into a sophisticated electronic system that is intended to monitor the battery and prevent it from overcharging.

The F.A.A.’s battery tests in 2010 highlighted the hazards of lithium cobalt batteries. When they overheat, the batteries showed “much more severe increases in temperature and pressure” than other battery types.

Another risk of lithium batteries also became apparent with the Cessna episode in 2011, when a technician working on a new model plane, the CJ4, hooked up the plane to a power source to recharge the battery and soon after saw smoke coming out of it.

According to a government safety official with knowledge of the episode, the Cessna battery had drained below 5 percent of its charge. The problem with lithium batteries, however, is that recharging a battery that has been drained to a low point can create a risk of fire because the battery is unable to accept a charge. Recharging it then creates heat that can cause it to ignite.

But after discussions with the F.A.A., Cessna decided to replace the battery on its planes with nickel cadmium batteries, which are heavier, but do not ignite easily. Boeing has said its system has safeguards that prevent a drained battery from being recharged without first being sent back to the manufacturer for reconditioning.

A Cessna spokesman declined to comment about the episode.

According to investigators in Japan, the battery on the jet that made the emergency landing showed a stable reading of 31 volts, near its full charge capacity, until 15 minutes into the flight when pilots detected a strange smell. About that time, sensors detected a sudden unstable discharge of the battery to near zero for reasons that Japanese investigators still cannot explain.
671 2013-01-30 A federal judge in Ohio has dismissed a lawsuit that accused the Kaplan Higher Education Corporation of discriminating against black job applicants.

In a ruling issued on Monday, Judge Patricia A. Gaughan of the Northern District of Ohio granted partial summary judgment in a case in which the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission had contended that Kaplan in effect discriminated against African-American applicants by rejecting some job seekers because of their credit histories. The commission has asserted that rejections based on aspects of applicant’s credit histories, like falling behind on bill-paying, have a disparate effect on black applicants without being directly relevant to their future job performance.

Judge Gaughan granted Kaplan’s motion to exclude an expert witness for the E.E.O.C., concluding that the way he determined which applicants were black was unscientific and unreliable. The expert witness had assembled a group of five “race raters” to look at photos of the job applicants and then say which ones they thought were black.

In granting the motion to exclude the expert’s testimony, Judge Gaughan said the commission no longer had the evidence needed to make its case.

Kaplan, which is a unit of The Washington Post Company, welcomed the ruling. “Kaplan maintained from the beginning that the E.E.O.C. lawsuit was without merit,” the company said in a statement. “Our practices mirrored what is standard practice for many private companies and some government agencies.”

A spokeswoman for the E.E.O.C. said that the commission “is reviewing the district court’s decision carefully and is considering all options.”
672 2013-01-30 Mr. Obama used his speech to give himself dual options: being involved in the debate as it unfolds in coming months in Congress, while also staying distant enough to be able to force the action in the direction of policies he favors, if he finds it necessary.

While he is negotiating with lawmakers working to forge a bill that can win Republican votes, Mr. Obama must also manage the scrutiny and soaring expectations of Latino and immigrant groups, labor and religious leaders as well as business and farm organizations, all of which are much better prepared to mobilize for comprehensive legislation than they were in 2007, when a previous effort at an overhaul failed.

Those groups were present in force on Tuesday, most of them invited to Las Vegas by the White House. The choice of the Nevada city was a nod to the fast-growing Latino population that provided crucial votes for the re-election in 2010 of Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, and of Mr. Obama last year.

There was something for all of the groups in Mr. Obama’s speech. Appealing to Hispanics and young illegal immigrants who call themselves Dreamers, he spoke at length about one of them, Alan Aleman, a Mexican-born youth from Nevada who received a deportation reprieve under a program Mr. Obama started last June. Appealing to labor, he framed his proposals as an effort to create fair rules for the middle class. Appealing to business, he promised legal improvements “so that we continue to be a magnet for the best and brightest all around the world.”

A swell of praise came from many of those groups after the speech.

Richard Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said Mr. Obama had showed “tremendous determination” to get comprehensive legislation passed this year. Mr. Trumka said the labor movement was unified behind that effort and would wage a full-scale campaign this year to support it.

Hector E. Sanchez, the chairman of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, a coalition of 30 of the country’s largest Hispanic groups, called the meeting “a beautiful celebration.” But he said Latinos would be demonstrating in the streets and watching the debate closely. “For us, the priority is citizenship,” he said. “We don’t want a path that is extremely long and painful. Our community has already suffered enough.”

Probably the biggest fight that is looming between the White House and skeptical Republicans is over how long and how direct that pathway will be for illegal immigrants. Republicans were quick to point out that the president made no mention of a central piece of the senators’ blueprint: measures to increase security at borders and in workplaces that would have to be in place before any illegal immigrants could be put on a course leading to citizenship.

Mr. Rubio said that without such triggers in place, enforcement might fail and “we will be back in just a few years dealing with millions of new undocumented people in our country.”

Other Republicans were even more doubtful. “This administration has a poor record of enforcing our immigration laws already on the books,” said Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, a Republican from Virginia who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. He said Americans would have “a lot of questions about how this would work.”

Despite the urgency from Mr. Obama and supporters of the overhaul, Mr. Rubio said Republicans would not be rushed. “The president’s speech left the impression that he believes reforming immigration quickly is more important than reforming immigration right,” Mr. Rubio said.
673 2013-01-30 Hourly employees represented by the union there said they generally did not pay any of the premium.

The number on the W-2 form is supposed to reflect the part of the cost paid by the employer and the part paid by the employee.

Prof. Nicole Huberfeld, an expert on health law at the University of Kentucky, who received her W-2 form on Monday, said, “Most people who get health insurance from their employers have no idea how much it costs.”

“People are often shocked when they see the cost, $12,000 to $16,000 a year,” Ms. Huberfeld said. “Many Americans believe this is something they get free. But employers pay lower wages because they provide insurance.”

In 2012, according to an annual survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance averaged $5,615 a year for single coverage and $15,745 for family coverage. Over five years, the costs have increased 25 percent for individual coverage and 30 percent for family coverage.

“Health coverage is a big piece of people’s income and a large part of the social welfare budget,” said C. Eugene Steuerle, a tax economist at the Urban Institute. “But the benefits are not taxable, and most of the spending is hidden, so we don’t consider the trade-offs. If we want to get control of health care costs, people have to be aware of them.”

That is the goal of the disclosure requirement, which was proposed by a bipartisan group of senators: two Republicans, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, and two Democrats, Max Baucus of Montana and Ron Wyden of Oregon.

Congress acted after Peter R. Orszag, then the director of the Congressional Budget Office, told lawmakers: “The economic evidence is overwhelming, the theory is overwhelming, that when your firm pays for your health insurance, you actually pay through reduced take-home pay. The firm is not giving that to you for free.”

The tax-free treatment of employer-provided health benefits is the largest tax break in the tax code, costing the government roughly $180 billion a year in lost revenue, or 80 percent more than the home mortgage interest deduction, according to the administration.

Katie W. Mahoney, the executive director of health policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said, “It’s useful for employees to know the value of coverage their employers provide.” But she said some employers worried that reporting the benefit on the W-2 form could lead to taxing the benefit.

“That’s not the intent of the current requirement,” Ms. Mahoney said. “But once the information is collected by the government, it’s very easy for another administration to have a different intent.”

An employee of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. whose health coverage was listed as costing more than $20,000 said: “That knocks my socks off. When I saw the number, my eyes popped out. I appreciate my employer all the more.”

The employee said he had been told not to discuss the cost publicly because the union did not want to suggest that some employees had “Cadillac coverage.”

An employer that fails to comply with the reporting requirement could be subject to penalties of $200 per W-2 form, up to a maximum of $3 million, tax lawyers said.

Employers are exempt from the reporting obligation if they are required to file fewer than 250 W-2 forms, the I.R.S. said. That could change, but the agency said employers would be given at least six months’ notice.
674 2013-01-30 Pfizer and Eli Lilly each reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit on Tuesday as the companies weathered generic competition for once top-selling products through deals, cost-cutting and strong sales of newer products.

The drug makers also issued forecasts for 2013 that cheered investors, sending shares of each company up 3.2 percent.

Excluding special items, Pfizer earned $3.5 billion, or 47 cents a share, topping analysts’ average expectations by 3 cents, according to Thomson Reuters.

Pfizer’s net profit quadrupled to $6.32 billion, or 86 cents a share, on a gain from the sale in November of its nutritional products business to Nestlé for about $12 billion. That compared with $1.44 billion, or 19 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

But global sales fell 7 percent, to $15.1 billion, as sales of Lipitor, formerly the world’s top selling prescription medicine at nearly $13 billion a year, plunged 71 percent to $584 million because of cheaper generic copies.
675 2013-01-30 Another organization, Catholic Vote Philippines, which was formed in December in reaction to the new law, is compiling a database of locally elected candidates, including members of the House of Representatives, and listing how their positions align with Catholic beliefs, said Dr. Ricardo B. Boncan, the group’s executive director.

On Tuesday, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines issued a statement outlining the church’s position on various political issues, including its continued opposition to the reproductive health law, and encouraged Catholics to be politically active.

“We commend and support lay initiatives to form circles of discernment to choose worthy candidates and even to run as candidates in order to bring the values of God’s kingdom into the public discourse,” the statement said.

The church’s fight against the reproductive health bill was long successful; the measure was introduced in every new Congress for 13 years but until recently never came to a vote.

President Benigno S. Aquino III identified the bill as a priority not long after his election in 2010, to help address the country’s poverty and high birthrate. After it passed the House of Representatives on Dec. 12 on a second reading — a crucial hurdle — the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines responded with a strongly worded pastoral message titled “Contraception Is Corruption!”

To legislators who voted against the measure, the letter said, “The church will remember you as the heroes of our nation, those who have said no to corruption and who care for the true welfare of the people, especially the poor.” To those who voted for it, it warned, “God knows and sees what you are doing.” However, the measure passed and was signed into law on Dec. 21.

Harry Roque, an associate professor at the University of the Philippines College of Law, said the defeat showed that the church did not wield the political power in the Philippines that some claimed it did. He said its influence had been diminished by its inability to deliver a “Catholic vote,” and he noted that Philippine law generally followed that of the United States on the separation of church and state.

Mr. Roque argued that the church’s influence depended on who was president. Past presidents embraced and empowered the Catholic Church to seek legitimacy, he said.

“The PNoy Aquino administration does not need any legitimizing from the church because it has a huge popular mandate,” he said, using the president’s nickname. “The influence of the church depends upon who is in power and if that person needs the backing of the church.”

By all accounts, mustering a unified Catholic vote in the Philippines will be difficult.

Aurea Abrera is an example of that challenge. Ms. Abrera, 57, recently rode by bus for seven hours through the night from the northern province of Quezon to join more than 500,000 jostling, mostly barefoot Catholic devotees at a predawn procession here in the capital.

“I am a believer,” she said, looking frail and exhausted as she stood in Rizal Park in the intense afternoon sun. But she is opposed to her church’s position on contraception.

“We needed this law,” she said.

“We have so many poor children scattered around our streets,” she added, gesturing to a group of street children foraging in a trash can. “The church doesn’t tell me what to think.”
676 2013-01-30 The January rally on Wall Street appeared to be running out of steam on Monday, as stocks pulled back from their highs, but on Tuesday they resumed their climb.

The drug maker Pfizer, in particular, helped to extend the stock market rally, posting strong earnings and nudging the Dow closer to 14,000.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.49 points, or 0.52 percent, to 13,954.42, ending higher for the seventh time in eight sessions. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index also rose, adding 7.66 points, or 0.51 percent, to 1,507.84. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 0.64 point, or 0.02 percent, to 3,153.66.

Demand was bolstered at the start of the year after lawmakers reached a deal to avoid a fiscal impasse, and was sustained by evidence that the housing market was recovering and the jobs market was slowly healing.

The Dow is 6.5 percent higher this month, and the S.& P. 500 is up 5.7 percent. Both indexes are at their highest levels in more than five years.
677 2013-01-30 Home prices rose in November, climbing more than 5 percent from a year ago, in the biggest increase since August 2006, when the housing market was just starting to collapse.

A separate economic report issued Tuesday, on consumer confidence in the United States, held less encouraging data, with moods falling to their lowest level in more than a year as Americans grew more pessimistic about the economic outlook and their financial prospects. In the latest sign that the housing sector is on the mend, the Standard & Poor’s/Case Shiller composite index of home prices in 20 metropolitan areas gained 0.6 percent in November, on a seasonally adjusted basis, in line with economists’ forecasts.

Home prices in the 20 cities rose 5.5 percent year over year, making for the strongest yearly price increase in more than six years.

The housing market became a bright spot for the economy last year as prices rose and inventory tightened, and the sector is expected to contribute to economic growth in 2013.

“What we’re seeing is really a gradual improvement in the overall economy,” said Anthony Chan, chief economist for Chase Private Client in New York.

Rising home prices and recent gains in the stock market should blunt the impact of tax increases for consumers and spending should improve by the second half of the year, Mr. Chan said.
678 2013-01-30 In his letter, Tellem suggests that Hunter should not be allowed to attend that meeting to prevent him from any attempt “to intimidate and manipulate.” Tellem writes: “Hunter is betting that the players — historically passive — will let him slide. I hope you don’t. Clearly, Hunter has violated your trust.”

The union declined to comment. Hunter indirectly defended himself in a statement sent to Bloomberg News, asserting that he has looked out for the players’ interests more than some player agents.

“The reality is that the agents have never been satisfied that they cannot control the union for their own agendas,” Hunter’s statement said, according to Bloomberg.

Bloomberg also reported — and The Times confirmed — that Hunter fired three family members last week in response to the nepotism concerns raised in the audit.

Two of the family members worked in the union offices: Robyn Hunter, his daughter, was director of player benefits; and Megan Inaba, his daughter-in-law, is the director of special events and sponsorships. Inaba will continue to work through All-Star weekend before stepping down.

Hunter also terminated the union’s contract with Prim Capital, a financial services firm that employs his son, Todd, who is married to Inaba.

Tellem, the vice chairman of the Wasserman Media Group, is the first major agent to call for Hunter’s dismissal. His influence is considerable. Tellem’s firm represents about 50 current players, about 12 percent of the union’s membership, more than any other agency.

His clients include Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, Pau Gasol of the Los Angeles Lakers and Joe Johnson of the Nets.

A number of Tellem clients — including Kris Humphries of the Nets, Kendrick Perkins of the Thunder and Brandon Knight of the Detroit Pistons — are player representatives, the group that helps set the union’s agenda.

If Tellem can rally a majority of his players, it could create the momentum for a massive upheaval in the union’s leadership. Hunter, 70, has held his position since 1996, guiding the union through three collective bargaining agreements and two costly lockouts.

No other agents have publicly called for Hunter’s dismissal. But Tellem seems likely to find significant support for the stand he is taking, given the intense disdain for Hunter that several other major agents share with Tellem.

During the 2011 lockout Tellem joined five other powerful agents in calling for the union to decertify, which would have removed Hunter from his post while providing the players with a new legal avenue. Hunter resisted the effort, further alienating those agents.

That group included Jeff Schwartz, Dan Fegan, Bill Duffy, Mark Bartelstein and Leon Rose, all of whom have deep stables of clients, including many of the league’s top stars. Deron Williams, the Nets’ star point guard and a Schwartz client, was the first prominent player to call for Hunter’s dismissal after the audit was released this month.

Tellem devotes a major portion of his letter to criticizing Hunter’s handling of the lockout, saying that the union chief was “tactically, strategically and logistically unprepared” and that Commissioner David Stern “outmaneuvered Mr. Hunter from the get-go.” The decision to reject decertification, Tellem writes, showed that Hunter was “more concerned with saving his job and salary than in making the best deal for the players.”

The procedure for firing Hunter is not entirely clear, although it would presumably begin with the 60 or so player representatives (two from each team). The union also has a nine-player executive board, but that board has seven vacancies because of the union’s failure to hold an election within the last year. An election is scheduled for All-Star weekend.

Hunter defended his record after the audit was released on Jan. 17, noting that it cleared him of any criminal wrongdoing or misappropriation of union money.

But the audit faulted Hunter in several areas, among them: hiring family members and friends without disclosing potential conflicts of interest; cashing out $1.3 million in vacation time without proper review; and signing a new five-year contract, worth up to $18 million, without approval by the player representatives.

The law firm conducting the audit concluded that Hunter’s contract was not valid or enforceable, and it suggested that the players should consider replacing him. It also found instances in which Hunter tried to silence his critics, including a player who raised nepotism concerns.

The union is also the subject of a continuing joint investigation by the United States attorney’s office and the Department of Labor. In addition, CBSSports .com reported last week that the New York Attorney General’s office is considering opening its own probe into Hunter’s oversight of the union’s charitable foundation.

In his letter, Tellem says the law firm’s findings “leave no doubt” that Hunter “put his personal gain above those of the players.”

“The audit was quite thorough,” Tellem writes, “and the firm’s conclusions about Mr. Hunter’s financial indiscretions and fiduciary breaches are alarming, if not downright shocking.”
679 2013-01-30 GENEVA — Israel became the first country to withhold cooperation from a United Nations review of its human rights practices on Tuesday, shunning efforts by the United States and others to encourage it to participate.

Representatives from Israel did not appear at a session of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on Tuesday for a report by the council as part of what is known as the Universal Periodic Review process, in which all 193 member states had previously participated.

Israel’s mission to the United Nations in Geneva informally notified the Human Rights Council this month that it wanted to delay its participation but did not follow up with a formal request for postponement, creating uncertainty about its intentions. The uncertainty led to intense behind-the-scenes discussions to persuade Israel to reconsider its position.

“We have encouraged the Israelis to come to the council and to tell their story and to present their own narrative of their own human rights situation,” the United States ambassador to the council, Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, said last week. “The United States is absolutely, fully behind the Universal Periodic Review, and we do not want to see the mechanism in any way harmed.”

The underlying concern expressed by many council members in Tuesday’s session is that Israel’s decision to stay away from the review had broken established practice of cooperation observed by all countries, opening the door to noncooperation by others. The greater concern, some members said, is that if Israel persists in this action it will jeopardize a collaborative peer review process widely valued for shedding light on the human rights practices of even the most closed and repressive governments.
680 2013-01-31 Coverage of public discourse in the United States often makes it seem as if the only ideologies still in the game were the far right and the moderate everybody else. But “Mumia: Long Distance Revolutionary,” a documentary by Stephen Vittoria, is proof that there are still outspoken champions of views too radicalized to qualify as left-wing: people distrustful of law enforcement, the political system, the justice system, the news media and the very notion that America is at heart the land of the free.

That isn’t the film’s intent, of course. Mr. Vittoria sets out to tell once again the story of Mumia Abu-Jamal, who was convicted of killing a Philadelphia police officer more than 30 years ago, and to highlight the considerable writing he has done in prison over the decades. From that standpoint the film will appeal to one side of that polarizing case — the side that views Mr. Abu-Jamal as a political prisoner and victim of a racist system — and enrage the other.

The samples of Mr. Abu-Jamal’s writings aren’t generous enough to establish whether his is a singular voice or just a prolific one, with Mr. Vittoria instead letting the film wander considerably, to Frederick Douglass and recent American bombings overseas and everything in between.

But getting a concentrated dose of activists like Angela Davis and Dick Gregory, academics like Cornel West and Michelle Alexander, and the many other talking heads in this film is certainly a bracing change from the usual back-and-forth of the evening news.
681 2013-01-31 After struggling last season, the Knicks' front-line stars - Carmelo Anthony, Amar'e Stoudemire and Tyson Chandler - are now dominating together on offense....
682 2013-01-31 Roomy Khan, a central figure in the insider-trading investigation that led to the conviction of the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, was sentenced to one year in prison. In a separate case, Jason Pflaum, who gathered evidence about his former bo...
683 2013-01-31 Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman trader accused of misleading clients over a controversial mortgage deal, is no longer working at the firm....
684 2013-01-31 How the late, great decorator Bill Willis brought a famous bar from the movies to life....
685 2013-01-31 The Pfizer division, known as Zoetis, exceeded expectations by pricing its stock at $26 a share in an initial public offering that values the company at about $13 billion....
686 2013-01-31 The piece will be Mr. Taylor's 139th work. Other artists are also scheduled to perform....
687 2013-01-31 The nineties are back: DKNY is re-releasing its iconic logo tees, bodysuits and outerwear with the cool kids cult shop....
688 2013-01-31 On Thursday, John W. Warner and Sam Nunn returned to the Senate Armed Services Committee room to urge the confirmation of Chuck Hagel as defense secretary, almost 25 years after they battled over the nomination of John G. Tower....
689 2013-01-31 The company's cable networks reported decreased revenue, but its chief executive, Phillippe Dauman, said Viacom was making an investment in content that would lead to "future ratings growth and revenue improvement.''...
690 2013-01-31 Chuck Hagel, President Obama’s nominee to be secretary of defense, said that the United States must lead other nations in confronting threats.
691 2013-01-31 President Obama's nominee for secretary of defense, Chuck Hagel, is appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee Thursday morning....
692 2013-01-31 Retirements from the Senate present opportunities for Republicans in 2014, but ones they could squander with their primary choices....
693 2013-01-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
694 2013-01-31 Barcelona and Real Madrid played to a 1-1 draw in their Copa del Rey semifinal at Santiago Bernabéu stadium. Cesc Fàbregas opened the scoring in the 50th minute, and Raphaël Varane evened it in the 81st minute. The second leg will be in Barcelona on Feb. 27.
695 2013-01-31 MEXICO CITY — When Cuba eliminated the permit that had been used to keep Cubans from leaving the country for decades, skeptics asked: Would dissidents and critics previously denied be allowed to travel as well?

No one expressed more public skepticism than the well-known blogger Yoani Sánchez. She chronicled every detail of her struggle to get a passport, the last hurdle to travel under the new law that went into effect on Jan. 14. As recently as Wednesday afternoon, she was using her Twitter account, @yoanisanchez, to criticize the “lethargy of the bureaucracy in Cuba,” as yet another official told her “your passport still isn’t ready.”

Then suddenly, four hours later, it was. Thrilled and apparently surprised, she wrote: “They called me at home to say my passport was ready! They just delivered it.” She attached a photo of the document in another post, and wrote that after talking to her sister, whom she had not seen in six months, the passport made a reunion outside of Cuba suddenly possible.

The Cuban government’s decision seemed to suggest that officials are in fact determined to make sure that the new travel law is seen as more open and liberating than the system that preceded it. Experts have noted that encouraging Cubans to come and go could benefit the island’s sclerotic economy as more Cubans work abroad and send money home.

Ms. Sánchez is also well known worldwide, having won a number of awards for her efforts to create more room for public discourse in Cuba, so by approving her request to travel, Cuba has avoided stirring up a storm of criticism internationally.

At the same time, however, Cuba — wedded to its old ways even as it tries to change — signaled that it would open its doors only selectively. On the same day Ms. Sánchez received her passport, Angel Moya, one of 75 dissidents and writers imprisoned in 2003 for their political activities, reported that his passport application had been denied.
696 2013-01-31 The Federal Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday raided the offices of a prominent South Florida eye surgeon who is a wealthy Democratic Party donor with close ties to Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey.

Agents remained all day Wednesday at Vitreo-Retinal Consultants Eye Center, the West Palm Beach offices of the doctor, Salomon Melgen. They also searched several other offices that the doctor has in the area, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing. Dr. Melgen, 58, owns over a dozen Florida-registered companies.

At the West Palm Beach office, agents from the F.B.I. were joined by the Office of the Inspector General of the federal Department of Health and Human Services, which investigates fraud in Medicare, Medicaid and other agency programs.

At midmorning, investigators carried in a crowbar, and a locksmith arrived shortly after noon. A few hours later, they hauled away more than 30 cardboard boxes and placed them into the back of an unmarked van and into a white vehicle.

Other than acknowledging that the F.B.I. was “conducting law enforcement activity” there, the agency declined to comment.
697 2013-01-31 Unlike the major professional sports leagues and even the men’s and women’s professional tennis tours, the PGA Tour has steadfastly refused to announce fines or suspensions. Tour officials do not publicly acknowledge discipline meted out for acts like throwing a club into the gallery, blowing off a mandatory players meeting, getting into an on-course altercation with another player or walking off the course without finishing a round.

Their reasoning is that in the vast majority of cases few people know about the original transgression, so why broadcast it to the masses? How about to send a clear message to players that there is no place in the game for these behaviors? Or to show tour members that they will be held publicly accountable for their misbehavior, which can itself serve as a strong deterrent?

The exception is doping offenses, but since the PGA Tour initiated its drug testing policy in 2009, it has ensnared only the journeyman golfer Doug Barron, who tested positive for synthetic testosterone that year.

In the summer of 2011, tour officials warned players about using Ultimate Spray, made of deer antler velvet, and advised Mark Calcavecchia, a one-time major winner, to stop endorsing the product.

A year and a half later, Singh, a three-time major winner and former world No. 1 with 34 tour victories, is on the record saying he used deer antler spray “every couple of hours.”

“I’m looking forward to some changes in my body,” said Singh, a 49-year-old known for his maniacal fitness regimen, in Sports Illustrated. “It’s really hard to feel the difference if you’re only doing it for a couple of months.”

In a statement released Wednesday, Singh, who is entered in this week’s Waste Management Open, confirmed that he used deer antler spray but said that “at no time was I aware that it may contain a substance that is banned under the PGA Tour antidoping policy.”

“In fact, when I first received the product, I reviewed the list of ingredients and did not see any prohibited substances,” he said. “I am absolutely shocked that deer antler spray may contain a banned substance and am angry that I have put myself in this position.”

The tour’s antidoping manual, which includes IGF-1 under the heading “Peptide hormones, growth factors and related substances,” makes plain that ignorance is not a defense. It says, “It does not matter whether you unintentionally or unknowingly used a prohibited substance.” It also states, “It is each player’s personal duty to ensure that no prohibited substance enters his body.”

The tour said it had begun a review process, per its antidoping policy. But if Singh does not end up with a suspension, what message will that send about a sport that, for integrity’s sake, expects players to call infractions on themselves?

A player committing a first-time antidoping rule violation under the program is subject to up to a one-year suspension and can be fined up to $500,000.

Bubba Watson, the reigning Masters champion, was asked Wednesday what he knew about deer antler spray.

“I know somehow it’s illegal,” said Watson, who made it clear he could not imagine using deer antler spray as anything but a punch line.

“It’s sad that people live and die by their sport and they have to, I guess, cheat and go around it and try to better themselves with deer antler spray,” he said.

With its first major doping imbroglio, golf has officially reached the sporting big time. The question is, will its response befit a sport of its stature?
698 2013-01-31 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo warned the Bloomberg administration and the New York City teachers’ union on Wednesday that if they did not create a new teacher evaluation system quickly, he would move to impose one upon them.

Speaking plainly, the governor said at a news conference in the State Capitol that his “strong hope” was for the two sides to hammer out a settlement.

“If they don’t,” he said, “then let the state step in and let the state handle the evaluation process, determine an evaluation process, and impose it on the City of New York.”

The city and the union missed the Jan. 17 deadline for reaching an agreement on a new system, costing the city at least $250 million in state aid and possibly hundreds of millions more. That would include some of the city’s portion of New York State’s $700 million Race to the Top award, granted by the Obama administration in 2010. The award was based, in part, on the presumption that the city would have a new teacher evaluation system in place.

A 2010 state law created the outline for a new system, one based on students’ test scores, classroom observations by principals and other measures, with the details to be negotiated by each school district and its teachers’ union. Virtually all of the 691 districts reached an agreement, but New York City did not, mainly because of a dispute over whether the agreement should be allowed to expire in two years, as the union had wanted, or continue indefinitely, as the Bloomberg administration had desired.
699 2013-01-31 Israel has increasingly isolated itself from the world with its hard-line policies on West Bank settlements, the Gaza embargo and other issues. This week, it unwisely set itself further apart with a decision to withhold cooperation from a United Nations Human Rights Council review of its human rights practices.

When the first reviews began in 2008, every country in the world, including the United States and Israel, participated in the process, which is supposed to examine each country’s human rights record every four years. But when the council met on Tuesday in Geneva for its second review cycle, Israel was a no-show.

In May, Israel said it planned to stop participating because the council was a “political tool” for those who wanted to “bash and demonize” Israel. The council, whose 47 members are elected by the United Nations General Assembly, is clearly not without faults. More than half of the resolutions passed by the council since it started work in 2006 have focused on Israel and its treatment of Palestinians, and Israel is the only country that is a standing item on the agenda for the council’s biannual meetings.

The council hasn’t always been an effective human rights champion. But its record, including naming human rights rapporteurs for Iran and Sudan and supporting gay and lesbian rights, has improved since President Obama, reversing policy of the George W. Bush administration, had the United States join the council in 2009.

Human rights reviews are an important tool for judging all countries by universal standards and nudging them to make positive changes. By opting out, Israel shows not only an unwillingness to undergo the same scrutiny as all other countries, but it deprives itself of an opportunity to defend against abuse charges. The decision could also undermine the entire review process by providing an excuse for states with terrible human rights records — like North Korea, Iran and Zimbabwe — to withdraw as well. It certainly will make it harder for Washington to argue for reviews when an ally rejects the process.

If the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hoped to avoid criticism by this move, it failed. Fortunately, there is still a chance to make the right decision. In an extraordinary move, the council agreed to give Israel until November to reverse course. Any new governing coalition that emerges from Israel’s recent elections should realize that there’s a cost to standing apart.
700 2013-01-31 Development of these drugs is increasingly attractive to pharmaceutical companies, which are searching for new sources of revenue as sales of more traditional, mass-market drugs have been lost to generic competition. The orphan drug market was worth more than $50 billion in 2011 and turns out blockbusters at the same rate as the broader industry, according to a recent Thomson Reuters analysis. Pfizer opened a rare disease unit in 2010, and in 2011, Sanofi acquired the biotech company Genzyme, considered one of the pioneers of the orphan drug industry.

As orphan drugs have become increasingly popular, companies have honed their marketing techniques, knowing that they cannot afford to lose a single patient. Following in the footsteps of drug makers like Vertex, which makes the cystic fibrosis drug Kalydeco, NPS has formed close bonds with advocates like Mr. Jablonski and hired so-called patient care coordinators who will do everything from making sure that Gattex is delivered to patients’ doorsteps to writing appeal letters if an insurer refuses to pay for it.

Much is riding on the drug’s success: Gattex is the centerpiece of a comeback plan for NPS, which nearly folded six years ago after a previous drug, to treat osteoporosis, failed to win approval from the Food and Drug Administration. After that setback, the company closed its Utah office and laid off nearly all of its more than 400 employees. NPS has since shifted its focus to orphan drugs and now employs about 140 people, including 27 new sales representatives hired to sell Gattex.

If Gattex succeeds, NPS predicts the drug could bring in more than $350 million a year, which would significantly improve the company’s fortunes. NPS had $101.6 million in revenue in 2011, mostly from royalty payments on drugs that were licensed to other companies. It had an estimated $133 million in revenue in 2012, according to a report by the investment bank Canaccord Genuity.

To make Gattex a success, however, NPS will need to rely on people like Mr. Jablonski, who founded his group in 2011 to bring together the diverse group of patients who have short bowel syndrome.

People with the condition have lost part of their intestines for a variety of reasons, like car accidents, cancer and complications of diseases like Crohn’s. Many patients cannot absorb enough nutrients through food and require an intravenous feeding line to survive. Gattex is designed to decrease their reliance on such lines, improving their quality of life and lowering their risk for life-threatening complications like infections.

During Mr. Jablonski’s visit to NPS, employees briefed him on nearly every aspect of the drug and its rollout, from common questions that members of his foundation may ask to how they can get help paying for the drug. Mr. Jablonski, who is not on intravenous nutrition, said he had formed a close relationship with NPS because patients with short bowel syndrome were desperate for an effective treatment. He said he did not see a conflict between his role as an advocate for patients and his collaboration with NPS.

“Our mission, our goals and values, they closely align,” he said.

In clinical trials, about two-thirds of patients saw at least a 20 percent decrease in the volume of intravenous nutrition they required per week. Patients on the drug are believed to be at a higher risk for cancer and other conditions.

Many patients have heard stories like that of Devera Marshall, who participated in clinical trials and has been able to stop using intravenous nutrition altogether.

“I saw pretty instant, miraculous effects,” said Ms. Marshall, a mother of three from San Diego who said she had returned to playing tennis for the first time since losing most of her intestines after complications from surgery five years ago.

But she gasped when a reporter told her the price of Gattex, which she is receiving free because she is participating in a long-term trial. “Wow — I’m a little floored,” she said. “Does this mean I get on the horn with my insurance company and start begging and pleading?”

Despite the high cost of the drug, NPS executives say few, if any, patients will have to pay much for it. The company will cover out-of-pocket expenses for patients who are privately insured if the costs exceed $10 a month, and nonprofit foundations that receive financing from NPS will pay the expenses for people insured by Medicaid and Medicare. NPS will cover the full cost of Gattex for those who do not have any insurance.

The company said it surveyed major insurers before setting its price and was told the drug would most likely be covered. NPS executives point out that the cost of intravenous nutrition is more than $100,000 a year, and expenses like home health aides and hospitalizations can drive even higher the cost of caring for patients with the condition.

Taking a page from other companies that have recently introduced profitable orphan drugs, NPS will put every person who is prescribed Gattex in touch with a dedicated care coordinator who will walk the patient through the insurance reimbursement process and answer questions about the drug.

NPS said that it had identified about 1,000 eligible patients through partnerships with five home infusion companies that provide care to patients with short bowel syndrome, and that it expected 200 to 300 patients to be using the drug by the end of the year.

Karen Galambos, one of the coordinators, said she expected to get to know each of her patients on a first-name basis, exchanging photos, perhaps, or calling just to check in. “My goal is to hold the patient’s hand through the whole process,” she said. “We’re not going to let go of the ball.”
701 2013-01-31 LOS ANGELES — At one minute 45 seconds, with credits, “Fresh Guacamole“ is the briefest film ever nominated for an Oscar. It’s a stop-motion short in which that popular avocado dish is remade with different ingredients, starting with a grenade in place of the avocado. The short, made by an animator known as PES, is a sequel of sorts to “Western Spaghetti,” a stop-motion recipe of pickup sticks pasta and Rubik’s cube garlic. It’s the first film PES, born Adam Pesapane, submitted for Oscar consideration, a process that presented some challenges for a filmmaker whose work usually lives on YouTube.

“You have to jump through some hoops” to get a theatrical screening, as required by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, Mr. Pesapane said in an interview on Tuesday from his home in Santa Monica, Calif. The film, commissioned by Showtime, had its premiere before “The Artist” at a Hollywood theater last year and was programmed by the Laemmle Theaters, an art-house chain here. Despite its brevity and deceptively simple concept the short took four months, upward of $50,000 and a team of technical experts to create. “The guys who did ‘The Dark Knight Rises,’ the Bane mask, painted all the stuff for this film,” Mr. Pesapane said.

With a career as a commercial director, Mr. Pesapane, 39, who is working on a feature-length project or two — an adaptation of the Garbage Pail Kids series may get off the ground first — said he hoped the Oscar nomination for his micro-opus would help him gain Hollywood momentum. Thanks to a recent rule change this year the entire membership of the Academy is invited to vote on entries in the short-film categories. (The Oscar-nominated shorts, animated and live action, open theatrically on Friday.)

“You can’t get any higher award for making short films, let alone minute-and-40 second films,” PES said. In place of the usual “For Your Consideration” ads that studios run touting their films, he and his wife and collaborator, Sarah Phelps, had another slogan idea: “For Your Amusement.”

While no one was looking, this year’s Oscars have become a hotbed for animation lovers. For starters an animator, Seth MacFarlane, a creator of “Family Guy” and “The Cleveland Show,” is hosting the ceremony on Feb. 24. There are 5 nominees for best animated film — usually there are three — reflecting a record 21 such features up for consideration this season. (There were also more contenders in the shorts categories.) Collectively the full-length Oscar hopefuls have made more than $542 million at the box office, mostly thanks to Pixar/Disney’s “Brave,” a rebel princess story with a bow-and-arrow-shooting heroine, and “Wreck-It Ralph,” a pop culture mash-up of retro video games and cartoons. The other three nominees are done in stop-motion, an old animation form that rarely crops up so frequently in one year.

“When we did ‘The Nightmare Before Christmas’ in 1993, a stop-motion feature was pretty much unheard-of,” said Tim Burton, whose “Frankenweenie,” using the same technique, is a nominee this year. It is based on a live-action short he made in 1984, when he was briefly an animator at Disney. “Though even in the ’80s Rick Heinrichs,” his production designer, “and I pitched it as a stop-motion film,” Mr. Burton wrote in an e-mail. “It seemed the perfect medium for the feature. There’s something tangible and so beautifully textured about stop-motion. I’ve always loved it.”
702 2013-01-31 “It’s clear that there is now an expectation that this test could cross a threshold and yield data we haven’t had,” said Michael Green, a senior director for Asian affairs in the National Security Council under President George W. Bush. “We know a lot about their programs, but not the most important part: how far along are they? And we won’t know that until they test.”

The test could show, he said, “whether they can build a bomb that can approach Hiroshima or Nagasaki levels, and that would tell us a lot about how far they have proceeded on weaponization.”

Previous tests have obviated the question of whether the North is capable of setting off a crude nuclear device. The far bigger question is whether one of the world’s poorest, most backward nations can make the kind of leap that Pakistan made in the 1990s, when it tested a bomb and began building an arsenal now estimated to be well in excess of 100 weapons.

The United States has already deployed equipment to measure the future test, including sensitive sniffing devices mounted on reconnaissance planes that may be able to answer the question of whether the North has moved to a new generation of homemade uranium weapons.

The Bush administration accused the North of trying to go down that road in 2002, but American intelligence agencies missed a crucial development in recent years, the construction of a large enrichment facility in the heart of the North’s main nuclear reactor site.

But the Americans are not the only ones who are focused on the North’s progress. So is Iran, which has been struggling with the same uranium technology for years, but has stopped short of conducting a test.

“They will certainly be watching,” said Joseph R. DeTrani, who was the intelligence community’s top North Korea watcher for many years and went on to run the intelligence group created to fight weapons proliferation. “They want to see how it works, and they want to see how North Korea is treated by the rest of the world if they do another test.”

The White House has played down the threat from the North and has repeated the mantra that a test would further “isolate” the country, a term that both the Obama and Bush administrations have used, to little effect.

But senior American military commanders have noted that the missile that the North tested in December, which went as far as the Philippines and launched a small, light satellite, was a success — a notable change after several missiles fell quickly into the sea.

Similarly, many nuclear experts viewed the North’s first two nuclear explosions as laughable flops, if not complete failures.

The North set off its first bomb on Oct. 9, 2006. Surprised analysts judged its strength to be less than one kiloton, or equal to less than 1,000 tons of high explosive. By contrast, the first nuclear blast by the United States was more than 20 times as powerful.

Last year, James R. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, told Congress that federal analysts had judged the first explosion to be “a partial failure.” He added that the North’s second blast, on May 25, 2009, “appeared to be more technically successful,” with an estimated yield of about two kilotons. That was more impressive, but China’s second bomb test, nearly a half-century ago, was about 20 times as powerful.

A few analysts argued that the North had intended the blasts to be small. But more saw unfulfilled hopes.

Now, some revisionism has set in. Top American scientists have questioned the accuracy of the intelligence community’s assessments of the tests, and its portrayal of the North’s nuclear engineers as bumbling amateurs. The split indicates just how difficult it can be to understand what is happening deep underground in the famously reclusive state.

Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford professor who previously directed the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, and Frank V. Pabian, a senior adviser on nuclear nonproliferation at Los Alamos, reanalyzed the global measurements of the distant rumbles in North Korea and concluded that Western observers had underestimated the power of the blasts.

Their findings, published recently in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, said the first test could have yielded an explosion of up to one kiloton, and the second of up to seven kilotons. In an interview, Dr. Hecker said the higher figure suggested that the North Koreans were much closer to being able to produce a true weapon than first thought.

“If they can do four,” Dr. Hecker said of the North Koreans, “they can do 20,” roughly the size of the weapon that leveled Hiroshima, Japan.

As he acknowledges, the measurements are still in dispute. Nuclear experts at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California, Los Alamos’s longtime rival, did their own reassessments and kept to the view that the first tests were small. The intelligence divisions of those two laboratories provide the government’s scientific estimates of foreign nuclear threats.

“We haven’t been able to resolve the issue,” Dr. Hecker said.
703 2013-01-31 Every time another ’57 Morgan wheels into his lot, every time he orders new parts, every time a similar garage is sold across town, a new value flashes on Mr. Ritz’s computer screen and a bar chart notches the progress toward his five-year goal. “We’re not for sale,” he said, “but now, at least, I’m not guessing anymore what my biggest asset is worth.”

Based on anecdotal evidence from professionals in the mergers and acquisitions industry, Mr. Ritz seems to be in the minority. With the day-to-day demands of running their businesses, most owners put off getting a valuation until a sale is imminent. But some are starting to treat the act of valuing their business as an integral part of running it. “Everyone likes to think they’re building something that they can sell someday, but unless you focus on it, you don’t know if you really are,” said Chris Myers, the 27-year-old chief executive of BodeTree, a start-up that created the software used by the Sports and Collector Car Center.

The BodeTree valuation service, one application in a financial analysis platform that costs about $50 a month (or $500 a year), has attracted 4,000 subscribers since its introduction last April, and bills itself as “the finance tool for people who hate finance.” There are other online valuation calculators, including BizEquity and uValue, an iPhone app developed by Aswath Damodaran, a valuations expert at the Stern School of Business at New York University.

“I can’t speak for all the online tools, but I tried a couple of them and they didn’t come up with the same figure I did on a company I was valuing,” said Barbara Taylor, co-founder of Synergy Business Services, a business brokerage firm in Rogers, Ark., and a former contributor to The New York Times’s You’re the Boss blog. “I think there’s something to be said for having a real person trained at valuations come in and get to know your business before running the numbers. There’s an art to doing a valuation.”

Business brokers, who routinely run valuations as part of marketing a company for sale, are another option. While their reports are not as detailed as the certified appraisals required by some buyers and in some legal proceedings, they tend to be more detailed than the reports from online services — and, at $900 to $1,500, they cost a fraction of what a certified appraiser at a large public accounting firm will usually charge. In some industries, hands-on valuations at discounted rates may also be available from trade associations and industry-specific consulting firms.

But before engaging outside experts, virtual or nonvirtual, it helps to have at least a basic understanding of the valuation process. Here is what you need to know:

THREE APPROACHES There are essentially three methods for calculating the value of a business. The asset approach, typically used in distressed situations for the sale of defunct businesses, determines a company’s value by adding up its tangible and intangible assets.

The market approach, probably the most common way to value a healthy business, produces a valuation based on a multiple of the company’s past earnings — usually the last 12 months of Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). If you found that the last 12 months of Ebitda totaled $1 million and you chose a multiple of, say, five, you would get a valuation of $5 million.

The third approach, the income method, is forward-looking, relying on the present value of expected cash flow. More common in high-growth sectors like technology, this method tends to paint the fullest picture of a company’s potential, but prospective buyers may view it skeptically. That is why some services, like BodeTree, prefer a blended approach.

PICKING A MULTIPLE While multiples can vary widely, most have fallen since the financial crisis. Part of a valuation expert’s job is to analyze the “comps,” or the multiple of earnings at which comparable businesses have been selling, to choose the appropriate multiple for your business. You can also visit business-for-sale Web sites like BizBuySell to get an idea for yourself.

CONSIDER YOUR BUYER Another factor that figures heavily in the size of the multiple is the type of buyer you think might want to acquire your business. Strategic buyers — those with a vision for how to improve your business’s operations, possibly by combining it with the buyer’s operations — tend to pay more than financial buyers, like private equity funds, which focus on maximizing their returns when they eventually exit the business.

LITTLE THINGS ADD UP One of the first things prospective buyers (and valuation experts) look at is the strength of your management team. If the depth chart does not instill confidence, the multiple will suffer. In addition, starting at least a year before any sale, you may want to revisit the mix of personal expenses — car payments, children’s college tuition bills, season tickets to sporting events and the like — that you have been running through the business. While you may be getting back 30 to 40 cents after taxes for every dollar expensed now, every dollar you deduct could take $3, $4 or $5 off the sale price, depending on the multiple.

OPTIMIZE, OPTIMIZE, OPTIMIZE One reason to use valuation as a planning tool is that it can help you isolate variables that can drive your valuation higher. The BodeTree program, for example, has sliding meters that allow you to adjust your company’s ranking on important metrics within your competitive set and see the impact on your valuation.

Soon after signing up for BodeTree, Mr. Ritz noticed that his invoicing policy — he typically gave customers up to 60 days to pay — placed him near the bottom of the pack in accounts receivable. So he began asking customers to pay on delivery. His customers did not seem to mind, and cash flow improved. That allowed him to hire a fourth mechanic, which helped his revenue.

One morning last August, Mr. Ritz saw a new valuation figure flash on his screen: $1.15 million, up 15 percent from the valuation six months before. “I have to admit,” he said, “that was pretty cool.”
704 2013-01-31 The conflict has killed more than 60,000 Syrians, forced at least 700,000 to flee to neighboring countries and left more than two million displaced inside Syria.

“I announce that I am willing to sit down with representatives of the Syrian regime in Cairo or Tunisia or Istanbul,” Sheik Khatib said in the offer. His motivation, he said, was “to search for a political resolution to the crisis, and to arrange matters for the transitional phase that could prevent more blood.”

There was no immediate response by the Syrian government to the statement by Sheik Khatib, a respected Sunni cleric who once was the imam at the historic Umayyad mosque in Damascus. His unified Syrian opposition coalition, created at a meeting in Qatar two months ago, has been formally recognized by the Arab League, the European Union and the United States.

Syrian political experts said they strongly doubted that the Syrian government would entertain Sheik Khatib’s offer, partly because that could create the impression that Mr. Assad would look weak if he were to accept the conditions.

“All the same, it is an indication of a new willingness to talk to Assad himself by the Syrian opposition,” said Joshua M. Landis, the director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma and the author of the Syria Comment blog, which tracks developments in the conflict. “It is hard to believe that real negotiations could begin anytime soon, but the language of negotiation has been opened,” he said in an e-mail.

Sheik Khatib’s offer was made less than a day after the peace envoy from the United Nations and the Arab League, Lakhdar Brahimi, gave the United Nations Security Council a pessimistic prognosis for negotiations.

It also followed a massacre discovered on Tuesday in the northern city of Aleppo. Anti-Assad activists posted videos online of scores of bound victims who had been shot in the head and dumped in the Qweig River. Some insurgents said there were more than 100, most of them men in their 20s and 30s who had been abducted or arrested.

Anti-Assad activists contacted in the Aleppo region said many of the men had been detained at an Air Force Security Branch prison in Aleppo. Hazem Alizizi, a spokesman for an activist network in Azaz, a town outside Aleppo, said that the killers had apparently increased the river’s current temporarily by opening flow-control valves so that the bodies could be swept away.

“We can’t tell the exact number of victims because the search process is still going on,” he said in an interview via Skype. “We expect to find more corpses. Now we are using nets and metal barriers fixed in the water to find the bodies.”

The Syrian government has denied involvement and has accused jihadist insurgents of responsibility, just as it has done after other atrocities, including two major explosions a few weeks ago that killed more than 80 people at the University of Aleppo. Outside assessments based on video of the university blasts suggested that a Syrian military missile was responsible.

Sheik Khatib did not hide his contempt for Mr. Assad’s government in his statement, saying, “One can’t trust a regime that kills children and attacks bakeries and shells universities and destroys Syria’s infrastructure and commits massacres against innocents, the last of which won’t be the Aleppo massacre, which is unprecedented in its savagery.”

But he decided to reach out, he wrote, partly because the Syrian government had publicly invited political opposition leaders this week to return to Damascus for what it called a dialogue.

Three weeks ago, Mr. Assad said in a speech that he was open to reconciliation talks but not with political opponents he described as terrorists, the government’s generic term for armed insurgents. At the time, most members of the political opposition dismissed Mr. Assad’s speech as meaningless.

The opposition’s longstanding position has been that Mr. Assad must resign as a condition of any talks and that he could not be part of any transitional government. Mr. Assad and his aides have said he has no intention of resigning and may even run for another term next year.
705 2013-01-31 The central bank took no new action and said it would continue spending on bonds as part of its plan to keep borrowing costs low to spur growth.

“The Fed didn’t really say anything out of the ordinary, so you got the reaction you should’ve had in the morning,” said Joseph Saluzzi, a co-founder of the brokerage firm Themis Trading. “When you’ve spent this much money trying to prop up an economy and you still come up with a negative print, that’s bad news.”

Still, stocks remain on track for a great January over all.

The Dow Jones average has surged 6.2 percent since the start of the year, climbing close to 14,000 and within touching distance of its record level. The S.& P. 500 has gained 5.3 percent this month, close to its highest level in more than five years. Investors bought stocks after lawmakers reached a deal on taxes and spending and on optimism the American housing market was recovering and the jobs market was slowly getting better.

United States gross domestic product, the volume of all goods and services produced, contracted at an annual rate of 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the growth report showed, a sharp slowdown from the 3.1 percent growth rate for the quarter from July through September.

“To ignore this is folly,” said Douglas Coté, chief market strategist at ING Investment Management. “Certainly, this market could continue to move forward, but ignoring the fundamentals is not something I’d counsel my clients to do.”

Positive reports of company earnings helped offset the disappointing news about the economy and stemmed a bigger decline on Wednesday.

Amazon jumped $12.41, or 4.8 percent, to $272.76 after the world’s biggest online retailer showed improving profit margins when it posted fourth-quarter earnings late Tuesday.

Boeing, currently trying to fix battery problems that have grounded its 787 Dreamliner passenger jets, gained 94 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $74.59 after it reported earnings that beat analysts’ expectations. Rising profits from commercial jets offset a smaller profit from defense work.

A private survey showed Wednesday that United States businesses increased hiring in January compared with a revised December reading. The payroll processor ADP said that employers added 192,000 jobs in January.

Inflation rates were steady. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 2/32 to 96 24/32, and the yield, which moves inversely to its price, fell to 1.99 percent, from 2.00 on Tuesday.
706 2013-01-31 “What we know is that the replacement cycle that we’ve been experiencing there has been for maintenance reasons,” Mr. McNerney said. “There is no incident where we’re aware of where a battery has been replaced due to any kind of safety concerns.”

Boeing officials also said that some of the batteries might have needed replacing because built-in safeguards had activated to prevent overheating and to keep the drained batteries from being recharged in a risky manner. Boeing said that if mechanics had improperly connected a battery, another safeguard would also render the battery unusable.

Mr. McNerney said he would not speculate on how long it would take to determine the cause of the battery smoke and fire on the two 787s and how much it would cost the company to fix the problems.

Aviation analysts have said the worst case could involve Boeing switching back to older and less volatile battery technologies, like nickel-cadmium, to restore confidence among air travelers.

But Mr. McNerney said, “Nothing we’ve learned has told us that we made the wrong choice on the battery technology.” He added a moment later that none of the investigative findings “causes us to question that decision at this stage.”

Investigators for the National Transportation Safety Board and their Japanese counterparts have said they have not found anything that could explain the two incidents on the planes.

Battery experts said they could understand why investigators would want to closely review information about how the batteries have performed on all 50 787s delivered so far and why some were replaced.

“Everybody is in favor of safeguards,” said Donald R. Sadoway, a professor of material chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “And the batteries could be fine as manufactured, and tested and perform in excess of specifications.

“But in service they could develop some weakness,” he added. “That’s hard to find out. That’s dynamics. That’s like looking at the grapes and trying to find out what the wine will taste like.”

Ralph J. Brodd, a battery industry consultant in Henderson, Nev., said lithium-ion batteries needed safeguards in cases where they were discharged too completely because materials inside the batteries are more flammable than in nickel-cadmium batteries, which contain water that can prevent overheating.

Since the 787s are the first Boeing planes that use the new technology, he said it would prudent for the airline to replace batteries about which it had concerns.

Separately on Wednesday, Japanese investigators who inspected Kanto Aircraft Instrument, the manufacturer of a unit that monitors the lithium-ion batteries, told reporters that they had advised the company to make “several improvements on quality assurance” but had found “nothing that appeared related to the recent problems.”

Boeing on Wednesday also reported a fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates. The company said it was not projecting at this point that the battery problems would have a significant impact on its earnings in 2013, though that could change depending on what the investigations found.

Mr. McNerney said in a statement released with the earnings that fixing the battery problems was the company’s “first order of business for 2013.” And even though all the 787s delivered so far have been grounded and Boeing has temporarily halted deliveries, Boeing said it still planned to deliver at least 60 of the planes this year.

Rob Stallard, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said in a note to investors that the company’s forecast of Dreamliner deliveries was lower than the 93 he had expected.

Mr. McNerney said in the call with analysts that two other factors would keep the deliveries from rising more rapidly. One is that Boeing is still reworking parts on some of the earliest planes it produced, when it was having problems with suppliers, and it will focus this year on finishing some of those that require the most work.

He said that the company would also begin building a second, larger version of the 787 this year, and that integrating that model into the production lines could slow deliveries.

The company, which is based in Chicago, said its net income was $978 million, or $1.28 a share, in the fourth quarter, or 9 cents a share higher than the average estimate from analysts. Still, the net income dropped 30 percent, from $1.39 billion, or $1.84 a share, a year earlier, when a favorable tax settlement bolstered the company’s earnings.

Boeing said its revenue rose 14 percent in the fourth quarter, to $22.3 billion, from $19.55 billion a year earlier.

For all of 2012, Boeing earned $3.9 billion, or $5.11 a share, on revenue of $81.7 billion. It forecast that revenue would rise to $82 billion to $85 billion in 2013 and its net earnings would be $5 to $5.20 a share.

The company also reported that it had $13.5 billion in cash on hand at the end of 2012, leaving it in strong financial shape to weather any further problems with the batteries.

The lithium-ion batteries are lighter and more powerful than older types but are more volatile.

The 787s are the most technologically advanced jets on the market, with lightweight carbon composite structures and new engines that combine to reduce fuel consumption by 20 percent.

Investigators have said it remains possible that the failures that caused the incidents involving fire and smoke stemmed from flaws in the manufacturing process that could be corrected.

Boeing passed Airbus in 2012 to retake the worldwide lead in aircraft deliveries, a title it had lost in 2003, and said it expected to deliver a total of 635 to 645 planes in 2013.

Mr. McNerney said the company was likely to use the new composite technologies to update its larger 777 jets and seek to maintain that advantage over Airbus.