1 2006-11-01 The Securities and Exchange Commission is ready to bring charges claiming a major New York hedge fund and several of its principals violated key short-selling rules, according to press reports. Sandell Asset Management, a $7 billion hedge fund in ...
2 2006-11-01 Shares in Cenkos Securities, the U.K. brokerage firm set up by London veteran Andy Stewart, soared by more than 40 percent on its first day of trading yesterday, valuing the company at 150 million pounds ($286 million). Mr. Stewart, one of the fou...
3 2006-11-01 The New York Mercantile Exchange said Tuesday that it expects to issue 6 million shares as part of its plan to raise $358.8 million. The issue does not include an additional 900,000 shares available as an overallotment to brokers. The commodities ...
4 2006-11-01 Deutsche Bank, Germany's biggest bank, said third-quarter profit rose 25 percent as gains from an insurance settlement and the sale of shares in Linde Group outweighed a slump in earnings at the investment bank. Net income climbed to 1.24 billion ...
5 2006-11-01 A day after EMI Group Chairman Martin N. Bandier said he would retire earlier than planned, a report surfaced that rival Warner Music Group may give Mr. Bandier a job. The Times of London reported that Mr. Bandier may be offered an equivalent job ...
6 2006-11-01 “As the Call, So the Echo,” Keir Moreano’s muted yet moving record of his father’s experience as a volunteer doctor in Vietnam, documents a journey that’s substantially more philosophical than medical. In 2003 Dr. Alex Moreano, an ear, nose and throat surgeon from Albuquerque, spent several weeks in a hard-pressed hospital in Hue treating patients with advanced disease and demonstrating surgical techniques to the overworked staff. By the end of his stay, whatever Dr. Moreano had done for the Vietnamese was nothing compared with what they had done for him.

Maintaining a polite but unflinching gaze, “As the Call, So the Echo” observes Dr. Moreano as he performs complicated operations, counsels patients and laments the lack of basic diagnostic equipment. Short on background but long on introspection, the movie presents a portrait not of a saint but of a temperamental man who has faced depression and is often bored by a specialty whose symptoms are — in the first world, at least — rarely life-threatening.

In the deprivation of Vietnam, however, free of the safety blanket of the American medical establishment, Dr. Moreano rediscovers the rush of risk and with it a passion he has begun to question. And as he fights to save a young mother with an invasive facial tumor, he wonders why a single life should matter so much.

“Somehow it seems to,” he says, clearly understanding that the life he’s saving is his own.

AS THE CALL, SO THE ECHO

Produced and directed by Keir Moreano; in English and Vietnamese, with English subtitles; directors of photography, Matthew J. Santo and Gordon Arkenberg; edited by Tim Malieckal; music by Joel Douek; released by Necessary Nomad Films. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 74 minutes. This film is not rated.
7 2006-11-01 Although the Zune has inspired several fan Web sites, including ZuneScene.com, zunemax.com and zunely.com, some industry analysts question its drawing power.

For one, although the Zune has a larger screen than the iPod, it is not a big enough difference to matter, said Ted Schadler, a consumer technology analyst for Forrester Research. Microsoft does not yet have as much video programming available as the iPod does.

“You know they want to have content, but they aren’t going to have it for this holiday season,” Mr. Schadler said. “If you talk to Apple, they will tell you all day long the design point is music. On the other hand, they have a tremendous amount of television content and are working overtime to make movie deals.”

There are third-party companies, like ReplayTV and Broadclip.com, that are working on products for transferring TV shows to portable media players at no cost, but analysts like Mr. Schadler wonder whether that will be enough to drive sales.

There is also skepticism over the value of another Zune feature that Microsoft is pushing — a built-in Wi-Fi transmitter that will allow people to share music files and images. The files will have a “three-day or three-play” limitation; when one or the other is up, the shared music will no longer play.

While it benefits record labels and artists, it may not appeal to people who find it easy to share unrestricted files over the Web. “It’s driven more by marketing goals than consumer demand,” said Ross Rubin, an analyst for the market-research firm NPD. “If they wanted to share music, they are not going to do it through this limited way.”

Scott Erickson, senior director for project management at Microsoft, said that analysts might not be seeing the whole picture, just as when the Microsoft Xbox was ridiculed for having an Ethernet port that would connect it to the Internet. Now Microsoft says that three million people pay the $50 annual fee to use its Xbox Live gaming service, and Internet connections are a common feature on gaming consoles.

The iPod certainly has its detractors — look at Web sites like Smashmyipod.com and anythingbutipod.com to see the consumer frustration. Or talk to Dave Taylor, a technology consultant and author of books like “The Complete Idiot’s Guide to Growing Your Business With Google.”

Even though he owns four iPods ( 5- and 10-gigabyte first-generation models, a 30-gigabyte video iPod and an iPod Mini) and he has ordered a new iPod Shuffle, he also owns an RCA Lyra and a Dell DJ, which is the player he uses most.

“I really like the size, and it has excellent battery life,” Mr. Taylor said. “I can charge it up, leave it on the shelf for a month, and it’s ready to go.” By contrast, he said, the iPods have to be topped off with even a day or two between uses. “I have two of the newer ones, and the battery life is even worse.”

Battery life is one problem that SanDisk, which says it is the world’s largest producer of memory cards, has addressed with its new Sansa e200 media player. “The batteries are replaceable, and customer replaceable,” said Eric Bone, director of audio-video products for SanDisk. Replacement batteries cost about $20, he said.

SanDisk is also pushing its scratchproof back, flash memory (as opposed to the more fragile hard-drive memory in higher-capacity players) and MicroSD card expansion slot, which can add two gigabytes of memory. It is also trumpeting a series of players priced below iPods with more capacity and features. But the Sansa’s chief distinction is its special edition e200R models, which are designed to run special features of Rhapsody to Go, a music service that allows unlimited downloads to subscribers. (When a subscription ends, though, the songs can play only if they were actually bought.)

Some special features of Rhapsody to Go, which costs $14.95 a month and also works with desktop computers and portables, will work only with the Sansa e200R series. Among those is a feature that generates a three- to five-hour playlist based on 10 artists that the user suggests.

Music subscriptions have existed for a while but have not achieved mass popularity. One reason, Mr. Schadler said, is that the services may be taking the wrong approach. They tend to aim at music lovers by talking about the two-million-plus song catalog. But, he added, “People who love the music want to own the music.”

While the Zune and the e200 will be some of the main players this season, they are not the only ones. Sony has released a new Walkman, the NW-S705F, a music-only player with built-in noise canceling, and retailers are stocking up on Toshiba Gigabeats (Toshiba provides hardware for and manufactures the Microsoft Zune), Creative Labs’ ZEN V media player and the Samsung YP-K5JAB media player with built-in speakers.

Sadly for iPod bashers, it doesn’t look as though these products will overtake Apple this year, said Debra Russell, who heads the portable media player department for Best Buy, which is starting its own online music store with SanDisk and Rhapsody. “If we think about our go-to, it’s the Apple,” she said, adding that people still like Apple’s colors, designs and will buy more than one iPod. “With Apple,” she said, “people come back in for the latest, greatest products.”
8 2006-11-01 When trading resumed after the announcement, Caremark fell sharply and CVS continued to slide. By midafternoon, Caremark shares were trading arounnd $47, down 4.6 percent, while CVS shares were trading around $28.85, down more than 8 percent for the day; at that price, the merger is worth the equivalent of $48.18 for each Caremark share.

CVS has been expanding its own own pharmacy benefits management business, PharmaCare, in recent years, and the unit has become an increasingly important driver of profits. Combining it with Caremark would vault CVS, whose drugstore chain is No. 2 to Walgreen, far ahead of rival pharmacy benefit managers like Medco Health Solutions, Express Scripts and Wellpoint. Together, the nation’s pharmacy benefits managers handle about 75 percent of the $235 billion spent on prescriptions each year.

These companies have become increasingly important gatekeepers in Americans’ health benefits. Pharmacy benefits managers administer the drug benefits coverage to the employees or members of its customers — big corporations, unions, government agencies, insurers and other organizations. They negotiate discounted prices and other terms for drugs that covered employees obtain through participating drug stores, and they also buy drugs directly from the pharmaceutical companies and distribute them by mail order.

In the case of Caremark, that distribution network is 60,000 pharmacies around the country and seven mail-order pharmacies. Last year, it processed more than 530 million prescriptions. Caremark currently has the contract to handle pharmacy benefits services for 4.5 million federal employees, retirees, and dependents.

One of PharmaCare’s biggest contracts is administering the benefits for 144,000 employees and retires of Chrysler in the United States, as well as 136,000 dependents.

Because of their buying power, the big pharmacy benefits managers often can obtain lower prices on a number of drugs for its members. But some recent developments may pose challenges to the company’s pricing powers.

A trial program by Wal-Mart to cut the cost of about 300 generic drugs, to $4 in some states, raised fears that Wal-Mart could emerge as a powerful rival. And a settlement of a class-action suit against a company that publishes a widely followed benchmark of drug prices will cause the publisher to lower the average wholesale prices for more than 2,000 drugs by 5 percent.

Shares of Caremark and other pharmacy benefits mangers have declined sharply in recent weeks. Caremark’s stock price peaked at $59.64 on Sept. 12 and has fallen more than 17 percent since then.

Kenneth F. Abramowitz, a health care analyst and managing general partner of NGN Capital, a health care venture capital fund, said before the deal was announced that Caremark, which began in 1993, may feel that it has crested after a decade of rapid growth. “Caremark might be anxious about the future in general,” he said.

Caremark was built by Edwin Crawford, a former Auburn football player and an executive under Richard M. Scrushy, the former HealthSouth chief executive.

In 1993, Mr. Scrushy founded MedPartners, which in 1996 bought Caremark, a company that at the time managed the practices of 1,000 doctors and provided pharmacy benefits management. Mr. Crawford became chief executive in 1998 and focused on the pharmacy benefits management business. He moved the company from Birmingham, Ala., to Nashville and changed the company’s name to Caremark Rx. (Mr. Scrushy left Caremark’s board in 2001 before his legal troubles began.)

In 2003, Caremark acquired Advance PCS for $5.6 billion in cash and stock, a deal that made Caremark the biggest in the field.

Caremark’s fast growth and rising stock has made Mr. Crawford, 57, a rich man. He realized $63.84 million from exercising options last year, according to a company filing, and he sits on nearly $249 million worth of options, according to a recent estimate by Forbes magazine.

“Mac Crawford has done a spectacular job of turning around Caremark in the last 10 years,” Mr. Abramowitz said.
9 2006-11-01 The Chicago Bulls left the court during Miami’s championship-ring festivities, then returned to emphatically spoil what was left of the Heat’s celebration.

Kirk Hinrich — who signed a five-year extension just hours before tip-off — scored 26 points, Chris Duhon added 20 and the visiting Bulls delivered a huge stunner in beating the defending N.B.A. champion Heat, 108-66, last night in the season opener for both teams.

It was, by far, the worst loss in league history for a defending champion on opening night; the previous low was the Los Angeles Lakers’ 132-117 defeat to Golden State on Oct. 29, 1982. The Lakers went on that season to win 58 games and return to the finals under Coach Pat Riley, now the Heat coach.

The Bulls took control with a 37-14 second-quarter burst, a stretch where they connected on 79 percent of their shots — compared to 29 percent for the Heat. The lead was 59-30 at halftime and just kept growing.

Dwyane Wade had 25 points before sitting out much of the fourth quarter for the Heat, which did not have anyone else reach double figures. The Heat turned the ball over 23 times, leading to 32 points for the Bulls and were outrebounded by 49-29.

Luol Deng had 12 points and Thabo Sefolosha added 11, shooting 4 of 4 from the field, for the Bulls.
10 2006-11-01 As a result, the resort has become a diplomatic battleground following North Korea’s nuclear test on Oct. 9. The United States has been pushing the South to close the resort. South Korea’s leaders have refused.

The resort has also become something of a touchstone for the South’s increased ambivalence over its Sunshine Policy.

Following the nuclear test, many South Koreans said they felt their nation has made little progress in bringing the two Koreas closer together despite a decade of engaging the North and investing hundreds of millions of dollars in capitalist projects like this one. A poll by a South Korean newspaper, JoongAng Ilbo, a day after the test found that 53 percent of respondents wanted the Mount Kumgang resort to close; 42 percent said it should remain open.

Despite their disillusionment with engagement, though, most South Koreans remain unwilling to completely sever the growing economic ties between the two nations. They believe cutting off the North could start a war, drive North Korea into China’s arms or end up hurting the North Korean people, whom they regard as impoverished cousins.

“The nuclear test has put Korea at a loss,” said Lee Geun, a professor of international relations at Seoul National University, referring to the South. “What has years of sending them cash and fertilizer accomplished? North Korea still ended up testing a nuclear bomb. But becoming hawkish isn’t the alternative, either.”

The Mount Kumgang resort was opened in 1998 by Hyundai Asan, which has spent $200 million to build its sprawling complex of roads, hotels and restaurants, as well as a port. The resort is the second-largest South Korean investment in the North, after a $300 million industrial park in Kaesong.

Hyundai Asan agreed to pay North Korea part of the proceeds from the resort as well as the salaries for North Korean workers. The company says it pays the North $900,000 a month, or $40 a tourist.

Since its start, the resort has provided almost a half-billion dollars in hard cash to North Korea, with no way of knowing how the regime has spent it. Even the South Korean government says it can only speculate where the money goes. Officials say they believe that the money is used, in part, to aid the local economy.

Hyundai Asan opened the resort with high hopes that it would lure hikers from South Korea and abroad with Mount Kumgang’s fabled rocky peaks and emerald-green streams, as well as help to lower tensions with the North. The company boasts that it has literally turned swords into plowshares, converting a North Korean naval base into a port for cruise ships and building a golf course on a former artillery base.

The resort, though, has struggled to make money, in part because of high operating costs and the reluctance of many South Koreans to visit the North. The company says that the nuclear test, coming at the height of the autumn tourist season, only made things worse. Hit by a wave of cancellations, Hyundai Asan now expects about 250,000 visitors this year, down from its original estimate of 370,000.

When asked whether closing the resort would hurt them, many of the North Korean workers, identifiable by small red badges bearing the likeness of Kim Il-sung, their nation’s founder and the father of its current leader Kim Jong-il, replied proudly that the North didn’t need the South’s money. Asked about the nuclear test, most repeated the regime’s official line in stentorian tones.

Kim Eun-gyeong, a waitress at one hotel, said that when she heard about the test, she stood up and clapped. “Before, the world mocked us,” she said. “Now, with this nuclear test, we are safe from the United States imperialists.”

But a few spoke more candidly, if cautiously. On a path up the mountain, North Korean women selling bags of berries and fungi for use in medicinal teas said that the resort was a chance to earn hard cash. One said she came from Pyongyang because she could make $25 a month if sales were good. Another said she was saving up for marriage.

For their part, South Koreans appeared to be learning more about the economic divide between the two countries. The residential section of Onjeongri, a town of about 2,000, was off limits to tourists. But from a distance, its white one-story homes looked run-down, and the half-dozen taller buildings were crumbling and had broken windows. At night, the town literally vanished into the darkness because of an apparent lack of electricity, leaving the resort’s brightly lighted hotels standing in a black void.

“This is like being on a spaceship on an alien planet,” said Lee Jang-chon, a retired high school teacher from Seoul. He said that since the nuclear test, many of his friends have refused to visit Mount Kumgang.

With South Korean presidential elections next year, the resort is likely to remain a target of opposition politicians. The industrial park in Kaesong has been less controversial because it is seen as introducing capitalism and most of its payments to the North are in workers’ salaries.

“Mount Kumgang should be shut,” said Kim Hyong-o, floor leader for the Grand National Party, the largest opposition party, “until we can prove those dollars aren’t going straight to Kim Jong-il and to building nuclear weapons and missiles.”

Under mounting pressure at home and from Washington, President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea is scrambling to address public concerns. Officials said that his administration is considering changes to the resort, like paying the North in rice and fertilizer instead of cash.

Kim Young-hyun, the resort’s manager, said that North Koreans had promised that the money went into the economy. He said he had seen signs of improvement, including more colorful clothing on Onjeongri’s peasants, who also appear to own more bicycles.

“It is difficult for us to verify and keep track of where the money goes,” Mr. Kim said. “But if we shut Mount Kumgang down, we are going back to the 1970s and cold war-era confrontation.”

There are other signs that the resort is having an effect on North Koreans, even if in limited ways.

In one conversation, after initially reciting the official line on the threat of American imperialism, two North Korean workers showed intense curiosity in the economic changes in South Korea and China, and in how Americans viewed their country. When told that Americans regarded their government as a police state ruled with a cult of personality, they nodded their heads in apparent agreement, without refuting the description.

The two, who could face punishment if identified, said they thought their country would eventually reform and open up.

“I don’t see any horns on your head,” one of the North Koreans said. “I hope you don’t see any on mine, either.”
11 2006-11-01 Muazzez Ilmiye Cig, a 92-year-old academic who specializes in Sumerian culture and history, went on trial on charges that she “insulted the people” and incited hatred in a book last summer in which she wrote that the head scarf was first used in religious rites by women who worked in Sumerian temples to initiate young men in sex, in order to differentiate them from women who worked as priests. Ms. Cig, who has translated about 3,000 stone tablets and published a number of books and papers, faces a prison sentence of up to three years if convicted of all charges.
12 2006-11-01 “At this stage we could not have hoped for a better result.”

Mr. Chen, a self-taught legal affairs and human rights advocate, attracted attention in Chinese legal circles and overseas for his work defending fellow peasants in Shandong.

Blind since a childhood illness, Mr. Chen helped improve legal protections for handicapped people like himself.

Last year, after being approached by peasants who said they had suffered in a campaign to enforce population control in Linyi, Mr. Chen helped publicize the case and demanded compensation from the local government.

His efforts brought the case to the attention of family-planning authorities in Beijing, who determined that widespread abuses had occurred. Forced abortions and sterilizations are not permitted under Chinese law, though they are still widely used by local officials who fear the consequences of violating bureaucratic mandates to keep population growth low.

But Mr. Chen had outraged local officials. He was placed under effective house arrest for many months and his home village was closed to outsiders.

Ten months after he was taken into custody, officials charged him with destruction of property and disrupting traffic. Lawyers in Beijing who defended Mr. Chen said the charges would have lacked merit even if Mr. Chen could see. They said the alleged violations took place while he was under guard.

Mr. Chen’s first trial was widely condemned as a travesty. Beijing-based lawyers whom Mr. Chen chose to defend him were harassed before the trial and then barred from the hearing. The court assigned Mr. Chen two local lawyers who introduced no evidence, called no witnesses and did not contest the charges against him.

It is unclear why an appeals court in Linyi, which is the same urban area where local officials ordered the crackdown on Mr. Chen, would decide to overturn the verdict against him.

It is possible that higher authorities told the court to do so. But it is also possible that the maneuver was intended to prevent having the case appealed to a higher court that does not answer to local authorities.

The actual prospects for a new trial are uncertain.
13 2006-11-01 But doctors said that the blood pressure rise was medically significant and would discourage the Food and Drug Administration from approving torcetrapib, even if Pfizer proves next year that the drug does reduce plaque. Instead, Pfizer will now probably have to show that torcetrapib actually lowers the risk of heart attacks and strokes in patients who take it, not just that it cuts plaque, the doctors said.

Pfizer is conducting a 25,000-patient trial to examine whether torcetrapib reduces deaths and heart attacks. But full data from that trial will probably not be available until 2009. The findings described yesterday were preliminary results from more than 4,000 patients already enrolled in that trial.

Among those patients, Pfizer said, torcetrapib caused an average rise of three to four millimeters in their systolic blood pressure, the top number of the blood pressure reading. In other words, a person who had a blood pressure reading of 125 over 80 before entering the trial would generally have a reading of 128 over 80 or 129 over 80 after taking the drug. The difference may seem small, but cardiologists said it was troubling.

“It is a concern,” said Dr. Antonio M. Gotto Jr., a cardiologist and the dean of Weill Cornell Medical College in New York. “It doesn’t mean the death knell for the drug, but it would probably mean that one would want to see evidence on clinical events before approving the drug.”

Earlier clinical trials had also shown that torcetrapib raised blood pressure, but analysts and some doctors had hoped that the effect would decrease in the larger trials. Instead, patients in the new trials actually had an even larger gain in pressure.

If regulators approve the drug, Pfizer expects to sell it alone as well as in combination with Lipitor, which reduces so-called bad cholesterol by 40 percent to 60 percent.

Lipitor and similar medicines, called statins, are the single largest-selling drug category worldwide and among the pharmaceutical industry’s biggest breakthroughs in the last generation. Statins are widely credited with helping to lower death rates from heart attacks and strokes.

Pfizer hopes that torcetrapib will prove another breakthrough. The company believes that torcetrapib, in combination with Lipitor, may actually reverse the buildup of the fatty plaques that can block blood vessels and cause heart attacks and strokes.

Dr. Joe Feczko, Pfizer’s chief medical officer, said that Pfizer still believed that the benefits of torcetrapib outweighed its risks and that the F.D.A. might still approve the drug based only on its effect on plaques. Data from clinical trials shows that the torcetrapib-Lipitor combination raises good cholesterol 55 percent more than Lipitor alone and reduces bad cholesterol at least 10 percent more than Lipitor. Those differences should outweigh the increase in blood pressure, Dr. Feczko said.

Very few patients who take torcetrapib have a large increase in blood pressure, he said. Instead, most patients have the three to four millimeter increase, which can be managed with medication.

But Dr. Steven E. Nissen, president of the American College of Cardiology, cautioned against paying down the significance of the increase. Dr. Nissen, who is overseeing the 1,190-patient clinical trial that is measuring torcetrapib’s effects on plaque, said the increase was clinically meaningful and would raise the hurdles for the drug’s approval.
14 2006-11-01 CINCINNATI, Oct. 31 (AP) — The Procter & Gamble Company said Tuesday that its first-quarter profit climbed 33 percent, helped by improved margins and sales from Gillette.

The company, whose products include Pampers diapers, Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, also lifted its full-year earnings outlook.

Net income for the quarter was $2.7 billion, or 79 cents a share, compared with $2.03 billion, or 77 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased 27 percent, to $18.79 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had projected earnings of 78 cents a share on sales of $18.56 billion.

Profit margins expanded during the quarter as sales growth, cost-savings projects and the benefit of adding the higher-margin Gillette business more than offset acquisition-related expenses and higher commodity costs.

Procter & Gamble’s $57 billion acquisition of Gillette closed Oct. 1, 2005, and company officials noted that the next quarter would be the first in which its results would be included in P.& G.’s organic sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures.

The company lifted its full-year earnings guidance to $2.97 to $3.02 a share on a better commodity and energy cost forecast.
15 2006-11-01 Morgan Stanley, wrapping up a fitful courtship that spanned more than a year, reached an agreement yesterday to buy FrontPoint Partners, a manager of hedge funds.

The deal is the latest example of an aggressive push by Morgan Stanley’s chief executive, John J. Mack, to increase the firm’s asset management exposure to the booming hedge fund and private equity markets.

As originally conceived by Mr. Mack, the deal with FrontPoint, which manages $5.5 billion through a broad slate of funds, was aimed to give one of the firm’s founders, Philip N. Duff, a former chief financial officer at Morgan Stanley and a friend of Mr. Mack’s, a senior management role within Morgan Stanley. When talks broke down, however, Mr. Mack promoted Owen D. Thomas to run asset management and appointed Zoe Cruz and Robert W. Scully as co-presidents.

Given the many ties between the two entities, one may wonder why it took so long to get a deal done. In addition to Mr. Duff, as many as 20 FrontPoint executives have worked at Morgan Stanley. And the executive at Morgan Stanley in charge of alternative investments, Stu Bohart, used to work at FrontPoint.

Now Mr. Duff will serve as a consultant on strategy to Mr. Mack and a number of senior executives from FrontPoint will assume comparable positions at Morgan Stanley investment management.
16 2006-11-01 Revolution Coach Steve Nicol told mlsnet.com: “It is great for everybody, the players and the crowd, when Pat steps on the field. He adds that bit of quality when he is given the chance to show it and he showed it again tonight.”

Noonan, the runner-up to Damani Ralph for rookie of the year in 2003, had gradually worked his way into the national team picture as the United States prepared for the World Cup earlier this year.

His deceptive skill on the ball, passing ability and a handful of intangibles drew praise from Bruce Arena, who was then the manager of the national team, and Noonan was in the mix. But a hamstring injury (sustained in a game against Jamaica) and a hip flexor (aggravated during preseason training in Bermuda) resulted in Noonan’s watching the World Cup on television.

Those injuries and a bulging disk in his back limited Noonan to 14 regular-season games and a single goal this season for New England.

“It was very disappointing not going to the World Cup, because I was getting some confidence with the national team,” he said. “It would have been a good test under pressure in Europe and I think I could have succeeded. Now, against D.C., I think I’ll probably get some minutes, either starting or playing the last 45. My body continues to feel good. I’m ready.”UNITED STATES During a telephone conference Monday to announce that the United States would play in Copa América next summer in Venezuela, Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation, confirmed the worst-kept secret in American soccer — Jürgen Klinsmann was at or near the top of a short list to become the next coach of the men’s national team.

“I’m not going to sit here and deny that we’ve talked to Jürgen Klinsmann since he told both A.P. and The Times that he has had some informal conversations,” Gulati said. “I am not going to deny that. I’ve said before, Jürgen brings some very positive qualities to the possibility of coaching the national team. He had also indicated a desire to take some time off, and has said that he has now taken some time off and would be open to having a discussion.

“We have not made any decision about who will be coaching our national team, we certainly have not made any offers to anyone to coach our national team, and we certainly have not made the offers along the lines that have been mentioned in various publications.”

Gulati added that he had spoken with 13 potential national team coaches and that he expected to announce the selection before the end of this month. He denied reports in the German news media that an offer to Klinsmann had already been made.

Copa América, the South American championship, will be played in nine cities in Venezuela from June 26 to July 15. The United States will join Mexico as the two guest nations in the 12-team event (no guest nation has ever won the tournament).

The United States has not played in the tournament since 1995, and Gulati said that American officials only accepted the invitation after they were assured that the United States would not begin play until the final day of the first round of games.

Copa América is scheduled to begin only two days after the Concacaf Gold Cup final. The two international tournaments, plus a new competition between Mexican league and M.L.S. teams, the under-20 world championship in Canada and regular-season M.L.S. games will put an incredible strain on American players next summer.

NOTES A victory over the Netherlands tomorrow in Seoul, South Korea, would mostly likely send the United States women’s national team to the final of the Peace Queen Cup, an eight-team tournament. Kristine Lilly scored a goal and had an assist yesterday when the American team (13-0-4 this year) defeated Australia, 2-0. Canada and the United States are using the tournament to prepare for the Concacaf Women’s Gold Cup later this month, where the two top teams will earn berths in next year’s Women’s World Cup in China. “To get in the final it’s probably going to come down to goal difference, so we’re going to have to play a very offensive game to score goals and win it,” United States Coach Greg Ryan told The Associated Press. ... Jonathan Bornstein of Chivas USA was named the M.L.S. rookie of the year and his coach, Bob Bradley, was named coach of the year yesterday, a year after being fired by the MetroStars. ... The United States opens play Friday against Japan in the Beach World Cup in Brazil, then plays Poland on Sunday and Brazil on Tuesday to complete the first round.
17 2006-11-01 The earlier memorandum, which Mr. Hevesi’s lawyers said they only learned of when it was reported by The New York Times and The Daily News, was dated July 29, 2003. It classified Mrs. Hevesi as a “low-threat risk” and noted that there had been no specific threats made against her. But it ended by saying, “This determination, however, does take into consideration that Mrs. Hevesi’s husband has been and continues to be the target of numerous threats and, to that extent, a threat risk is indicated.”

Mr. Hevesi’s lawyers wrote that “one can only wonder what other facts exist that are contrary and unsupportive of your conclusions, but which remain unrevealed.”

In fact, the Ethics Commission spoke to the investigator who wrote the July 29 memorandum for the state police, Ihor P. Stadnyk. The commission’s report said that when Mr. Stadnyk asked the comptroller’s office for documentation of the threats, “none were ever supplied.” And it said that when he asked the New York City Police Department for such documentation, “none was ever provided.”

Mr. Hevesi’s lawyers also complain that they requested an opportunity to appear before the Ethics Commission before it released its report, but were refused. The commission’s report notes that Mr. Hevesi wrote a letter, testified before the commission, and made a “supplemental submission” to the commission.

Walter Ayres, a spokesman for the commission, said no one has ever appeared before the members of the commission before they released their findings.

Mr. Hevesi’s decision to take on the commission is not without some political risk. When Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic nominee for governor, withdrew his support from Mr. Hevesi last week, one of Mr. Spitzer’s aides said that Mr. Spitzer had been particularly alarmed to hear that Mr. Hevesi had been criticizing the commission, which the attorney general respects. Mr. Spitzer’s appointee on the commission joined Mr. Pataki’s three appointees in supporting the findings against Mr. Hevesi.

Supporters of Mr. Hevesi, meanwhile, were cheered by an article that was posted Tuesday on the Web site of The Village Voice questioning the use of state employees to drive Governor Pataki’s wife, Libby. Asked about the report, Governor Pataki said, “We have very clear guidelines that the state police have put in place for the protection of my family, and that includes Libby, and we have followed those guidelines.”

New York Republicans, meanwhile, said they believed the Hevesi controversy was turning the political winds their way, particularly benefiting their candidate for comptroller, J. Christopher Callaghan.

Ryan Moses, the executive director of the state Republican Party, said it was raising more than $100,000 a day from donors who wanted to support the party’s anti-Hevesi commercials, which are now being broadcast statewide.
18 2006-11-01 Five years into an oil boom, Moscow is becoming one of the hottest markets for luxury goods. Already, it counts 25 billionaires, along with a healthy number of Russia’s total of 88,000 millionaires.

The GoldVish cellphone, for example, glitters with 120 carats of diamonds, encrusting a case of white gold.

And if the sparkle alone did not draw in customers, Mr. Morren hired a blonde model to hold up a plaque declaring: “Certificate of the most expensive mobile phone.”

Nobody was challenging that claim.

“Somebody is wearing a nice watch and nice jewelry,” explained Mr. Morren, the president of GoldVish. “And then the phone rings. It doesn’t match. It’s a piece of plastic. We make it match.”

Though a good deal of the oil money is trickling down to ordinary people, the elite class of Russian rich are definitely growing richer, according to Peter Westin, the chief economist at MDM Bank, a Russian bank in Moscow.

He says that the gap between rich and poor is widening in Russia, though it is still not as extreme as in the United States, according to a statistical measure by the World Bank.

Perhaps that’s because poverty is shrinking here and there are still fewer rich people than in America. But they are trying to make up for lost time.

“Russians always loved luxury but lived in poverty,” said Olga V. Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist studying the Russian elite.

“This attraction to luxury became known as the ‘palace style.’ In a tiny Moscow apartment we would hang a giant crystal chandelier, like in a palace.”

And with each passing year of soaring commodity prices, very rich Russians are taking on more of the swagger and style of Arabian oil sheiks, as well as their spendthrift habits.

Andrei Melnichenko, then a 33-year-old banker, married a Serbian model near Cannes in a ceremony that cost $40 million in September last year.

It was the social event of the year for Russian oligarchs; for the nuptials, the couple dismantled an Orthodox church in Russia and re-assembled it in France.

There are rich people. And then there are the Russian rich.

“A lot of rich people here don’t say how they earn their money,” said Karsten Jacob, a salesman for Bugatti sports cars at the fair. “They wear sports shoes and training suits, and they walk up to our 1.3 million euro car and say, ‘Where can I buy it?’ ”

Mr. Jacob was standing beside a $1.65 million Bugatti Veyron sports car that was hand-made in France. Its top speed is 253 miles per hour. Over the weekend, the display model was sold to an anonymous Russian buyer, who paid full price.

Such conspicuous consumption is reflected in a Russian joke making the rounds. It describes how one wealthy businessman tells a friend of buying a tie for $100. “You fool,” the other responds. “You can get the same tie for $200 just across the street.”

Vyachislav Y. Nikishin, a client at the fair, said Russia’s recent history suggested wild spending was not so foolish, after all.

“Spend while you can” is a motto that has come to shape behavior, given the sometimes short-lived prominence of entrepreneurs, business tycoons and other moneyed players in Russia’s pell-mell business environment.

Saving money in a bank might also be seen as foolhardy, for banking crises have occurred frequently. “It doesn’t do any good to put it in a bank,” Mr. Nikishin said. “We have the bitter experience.”

The Millionaire Fair, a traveling exhibit begun in the Netherlands in 2002, has had its greatest success in Moscow. At the fair’s other venues, in Amsterdam, Cannes, Shanghai and Kortrijk, Belgium, people came more to gawk. Russians came here to buy.

Last year in Moscow, vendors did $600 million worth of business, selling gilded computer mice, curvy sports cars, Caribbean yacht charters and villas off the coast of Dubai, said Natalya A. Zadvornaya, the spokeswoman for the fair.

By comparison, the show in Amsterdam this year rang up sales of $300 million.

The Moscow fair is gaining attention. In 2005, 25,000 people showed up. This year, Ms. Zadvornaya said, 40,000 stopped by the cavernous exhibition space.

Not surprisingly, there was more than a touch of gaudiness.

At one booth, a company hawked villas on an island off Panama. The island was once owned by John Wayne, and to give sales a boost, the display included a model wearing only body paint, in the image of a cowboy outfitted with bandana, vest, cartridge belt and revolvers.

GoldVish, the bejeweled phone maker, sold 15 handsets, though not the $1.27 million phone.

Diamonds and gold aside, the phone is quite functional: it comes with Bluetooth, a camera, MP3 player and text messaging. The charger is included, too — gold-plated, of course.
19 2006-11-01 MIAMI, Oct. 31 (AP) — An agent for baseball players illegally smuggled Cuban players into the United States, eventually shipping them to California in hopes that they would be signed by major league teams, federal immigration officials said Tuesday.

The agent, Gus Dominguez, is charged with paying four aides to transport the athletes and other Cubans to the United States in two trips.

Dominguez, of the California-based agency Total Sports International, has represented several Cuban baseball defectors, including the highly regarded prospect Andy Morales, who was signed by the Yankees and later the Boston Red Sox after fleeing Cuba six years ago, but never played in the major leagues.

Also charged in the 53-count federal indictment were Geoffrey Rodrigues, Robert Yosvany Hernandez, Ramon Batista and Guillermo Valdez.

“Though this case involves a Beverly Hills sports agent and talented baseball players, it is remarkably similar to the human smuggling operations that I.C.E. encounters every day,” Julie Myers, an assistant secretary of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement.

There was no immediate comment from Total Sports or Dominguez.
20 2006-11-01 The Halliburton subsidiary KBR, an oil services contractor, has set the expected price of its planned initial public offering at $15 to $17 a share.

The company had previously set the size of the offering at 27.84 million shares.

Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs and UBS Investment Bank are underwriting the offering, according to an amended regulatory filing.

After the offering, Halliburton will own about 83 percent of the common stock, the filing said.

KBR estimates that it will receive about $416 million from the sale.

At $16 a share, KBR will have an initial market capitalization of $2.62 billion.
21 2006-11-01 KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa., Oct. 30 — Surveying the sparse scene by the old-school Gorf machine, bathing in the greasy odors of cheese steaks and chicken fingers wafting from the cookery in the linoleum-tiled basement of the Valley Forge Convention Center here this weekend, it certainly felt a long, long way from Los Angeles.

For the last decade the video game industry’s annual calendar has been dominated by the elephantine Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles each spring. E3, as the show has come to be known, was not supposed to be open to the public; instead it was theoretically meant for journalists and industry professionals.

In reality, E3 ballooned to almost unmanageable proportions in recent years because it seemed as if any young person who worked in any local video game store around the world could get into the show with five friends. As one top game executive put it this summer: “Look, to run this business effectively, there are really only 150 people that I need to deal with worldwide. The other 80,000 people coming to E3 made it almost impossible to actually get any business done.”

So a few months ago the Entertainment Software Association, which ran E3, killed it. Starting next year, E3 will no longer be the sprawling convention the industry had come to know and loathe, but rather a far smaller, invitation-only conference at the posh hotels by the Santa Monica harbor.

And that’s why many people in the video game business were curious about what would go down in the distinctly un-posh basement here, where a local entrepreneur named Ed Fleming was staging a fan fair called America’s VideoGame Expo. While the annual Tokyo Game Show and Leipzig Games Convention in Germany are open to the public, there is no major national event for video game fans in the United States. So this weekend’s expo was a sort of bellwether for the future of smaller regional events driven by local fans rather than big corporations.
22 2006-11-01 The numbers may only hint at the outrage. The Republican-controlled Congress was already wheezing from serial back-room scandals personified by the corrupt super-lobbyist, Jack Abramoff; his golfing friend and indicted former House majority leader Tom DeLay; and such campaign poster pols as former Representative Randy “Duke” Cunningham of California, now in prison after his uninhibited shopping for graft, and Representative Bob Ney of Ohio, a party embarrassment clinging to his seat for one final paycheck after pleading guilty to abetting the Abramoff schemes.

The corruption skein reached into the White House, too, with David Safavian, a ranking Bush administration aide, convicted for lying about his close Abramoff ties. The sense of laissez-faire, one-party control of Washington lately has opened the door for old-fashioned nepotism to be thrown into the mix, with the disclosure that federal agents are investigating whether Representative Curt Weldon, a powerful Pennsylvania Republican, used his office to boost the lucrative lobbying career of his daughter.

With the midterm elections less than a week away, the burning question for many people — more than what will happen to Mr. Foley, or who else will be caught up in the scandal’s web — is how much all of this will matter at the polls. The answer right now seems to be quite a bit, but that part of the story is still being written.

I. More Than Enough Hypocrisy to Go Around

Most Congressional scandals are solo affairs. Mr. Cunningham went down, and took only himself with him. Even his wife, who admitted wrongdoing, is not going to be prosecuted — though she has agreed to divorce him. Representative William Jefferson of Louisiana, who the F.B.I. says was videotaped accepting $100,000 in graft to grease the way for some business deals in Africa, with most of the money stored in his freezer, has been the butt of some jokes about “frozen assets.” But at least so far, he has not caused any trouble for his fellow congressmen.

But the Foley matter has been different from the start. Overhanging the scandal is the obvious question of why it was treated as some in-House secret and not a subject for criminal investigators once initial complaints surfaced several years ago, by some accounts.

The scandal started out, of course, by removing Mr. Foley himself — who jumped from Congress before he could be pushed. Mr. Foley’s implosion was so complete that he may well have destroyed his party’s chances of keeping what has long been a safe-Republican seat. According to the polls, his Democratic challenger — who was well-funded, but far behind — is the odds-on favorite to take the seat (helped by the fact that, under Florida law, Mr. Foley’s name stays on the ballot, so Republicans who want to elect the substitute Republican candidate will have to formally vote for Mr. Foley).

The scandal then reverberated outward. Suspicions immediately centered on Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House who is in charge of the page program. Mr. Hastert was the subject of a lot of what-did-he-know-and-when-did-he-know-it conjecture, made worse by the fact that people were saying that he was told about some of the accusations against Mr. Foley early on and did nothing about it. John Boehner, the House majority leader insists he alerted Mr. Hastert to the problem months before Mr. Foley fled Congress. "I believe I talked to the speaker and he told me it had been taken care of," said Mr. Boehner. But Mr. Hastert said he recalls only hearing of the scandal when it hit the headlines.

Mr. Hastert recently made an appearance before the House ethics committee to try, once again, to put these accusations to rest. If Mr. Hastert did not have such a strongly Republican district, and if speakers were not so hard to oust, his own seat in Congress could have been seriously jeopardized.

One top Republican who has not been as lucky, and who has been pole-axed by the revelations, is Tom Reynolds, an upstate New York congressman who is chair of the National Republican Congressional Committee. Instead of traveling the nation to rally majority candidates in his coach's role as head of his party's House campaign committee, Mr. Reynolds has been pinned at home, moving up the list of most vulnerable incumbents.

He is fighting for his political life, issuing apologies to voters for not doing more at the first complaints of Mr. Foley’s wayward lust: “More should have been done, and for that I am sorry.” Just a few weeks before the scandal broke, Mr. Reynolds proudly announced a salvo of negative attacks ads prepared for vulnerable Democrats. “Opposition research is power,” Mr. Reynolds confidently declared. Little did he know.

Small and medium-sized Washington scandals stay inside the beltway, damaging only the direct participants. Mega-scandals can pull down people who are only peripherally involved, or not involved at all. The Foley scandal appears to be a mega-scandal.

Exhibit A in this regard is Deborah Pryce, a popular Ohio Republican once considered likely for re-election. Ms. Pryce reported that her support “fell precipitously” after Democratic ads castigated her for having simply mentioned Mr. Foley as a friend, well before the scandal broke. Significantly, Democrats are airing the ads on Christian radio stations, aiming to turn off the G.O.P.’s evangelical base. Ms. Pryce, in turn, is appealing for support from organized gay voters and accusing her opponent, Mary Jo Kilroy, of gay-baiting.

One reason Ms. Pryce may be particularly vulnerable is that she is from Ohio, where voters were already suffering from a heaping dose of scandal . The governor, Bob Taft, has been mired in controversy, with approval ratings below 20 percent. Mr. Ney’s journey from the Capitol to the jailhouse has left a lot of disillusionment around the state. Adding fuel to the fire, Ohio’s ongoing “coingate scandal” — which reaches deep into the state Republican party — was in the news at the same time as the Foley scandal, because the leading figure in it, coin dealer Tom Noe, was headed to trial.

The Foley scandal seems to have had a catalytic effect on other scandals that were already out there at the local level, putting voters in a grimly unforgiving mood about bad acts. One casualty of this scandal pile-up appears to be Representative Don Sherwood of Pennsylvania, who has found his constituents unforgiving about allegations that he tried to choke his young mistress.

III. History Is Absolutely No Lesson at All

Republicans are increasingly snappish as they slip in the polls, none more so than Representative Christopher Says of Connecticut. “The Speaker didn’t go over a bridge and leave a young person in the water,” Mr. Shays declared, defending Mr. Hastert by dredging up Senator Edward Kennedy’s Chappaquiddick scandal of 37 years ago.

Republicans have been invoking a lot of history lately.

When the Foley scandal first broke, they pointed to a pair of 1983 page-seduction scandals involving Representatives Gerry Studds, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Dan Crane, Republican of Illinois.

Mr. Studds and Mr. Crane were censured, not expelled, by the House for having sexual relations with pages — not just vulgarly stalking them like Mr. Foley. Mr. Crane wept before the House in apologizing for seducing a 17-year-old female page; he was driven from Congress in the next election. Mr. Studds, the first openly gay member of Congress, admitted to an error in judgment in his affair with a 17-year-old male page, but defended it as consensual; he went on to win re-election five times.

The Republicans argued that if Mr. Studds could remain in Congress after having sex with a page, Mr. Foley’s resignation should be more than enough to make the current scandal go away. Unfortunately for them, the voters did not consider these historical precedents binding on their sense of how congressmen should act.

It used to take a lot more — like a senator’s being sensationally shot to death by his mistress (that was Senator Arthur Brown of Utah, a century ago) to break beyond the media cordon that protected the private lives of Washington politicians.

No more, notes Senate historian Donald Ritchie, not with countless wannabe muckrakers blogging away, intent on skewering political hypocrites. A pioneer female correspondent, Jane Swisshelm, broke the gender barrier in the Capitol press gallery 150 years ago and tried to write about some of the inconvenient truths she observed there — like Daniel Webster’s boozing and his fathering an illegitimate child. She was swiftly recalled by New York Tribune publisher Horace Greeley, a Webster enthusiast, noted Mr. Ritchie in stressing how times have changed.

Modern history has become rich with bold-face headlines. In 1974, Fanne Foxe, an Argentine-born stripper, helped lift the media veils when she leapt into the Washington Tidal Basin after traffic police stopped the car of her patron, Representative Wilbur Mills, then the powerful chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Gary Hart further advanced the public’s right to know with his catch-me-if-you-can dare that dug up his Monkey Business trysting.

The rules seem to be changing by the day. What is clear, though, is that in this age of 24-hour cable news cycles, always-on Internet access, and unrelenting 30-second attack ads, politicians are well advised to avoid any conduct they don’t want their constituents exposed to 1,000 or so times in the weeks before Election Day.

The news rules that are emerging from the Foley scandal are still being written, but one of them seems to be this: religious flim-flammery will not make a legitimate scandal disappear.

Family-values polemicists rushed to root the blame for the scandal in a culture of moral permissiveness they attribute to Democrats. “When we elevate tolerance and diversity to be the guidepost of public life, I mean, this is what we get, congressmen chasing boys down the halls of government,” (transcript and video) said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council. Even Mr. Perkins’ own so-called “values voters” didn’t seem to be buying it.

Mr. Foley was engaged in some values-spin of his own, whose effectiveness was also far from clear. He tried to argue that his conduct was due to an alcohol problem — the fashionable refuge of all kinds of scoundrels right now (see also: Mr. Ney; Jeffrey Skilling of Enron). He also blamed childhood sexual abuse by a priest, which aroused scant sympathy, at least on the agenda of late-night television comics.

The Foley scandal has laid bare how badly Republican leaders muffed their opportunity on the corruption issue by deciding to bottle up credible ethics reform.

Mr. Hastert gave reform early lip service, but his Republican majority rebelled against any serious changes in a culture driven by big-money campaign donations and lobbyist-friendly agendas. In particular, lawmakers rejected an obvious tool they sorely need now as their public support plummets — the creation of a believable anti-corruption investigation unit that is truly independent of political patrons and massage artists.

Some offended Congressional pages lately have disclosed their frustration in trying to get some serious attention paid to their complaints about Mr. Foley. “I knew the media would be the fastest way to get Foley the justice he deserved,” explained one page who described himself as a devoted Republican.

Among other things, the Foley story has made the public more aware of the presence of gays in political and government service — long a routine, non-controversial fact within the profession, for all the moralizing that goes on by candidates on the stump. Washington politicians and their staffs easily see through righteous stratagems flashed on the campaign scrim for the benefit of voters. And they can spot hypocrisy for the potent issue it has become this election season.

Once beyond the Elmer Gantry details of Mr. Foley’s self-destruction, the scandal quickly slipped into politics’ increasingly parallel world of public entertainment. Being tweaked nightly as buffoons at best has become the fate of American politicians. It should be the last role sought by serious practitioners. In the public’s nightly tittering there is a Chaucerian undertone of despair that politicians can ever change their own behavior, for all their latest promises to do right.

No wonder there’s a yearning lately expressed for some sort of deus ex machina — and the head of Google is saying just give him five years to come up with something close. Eric Schmidt, Google’s chief executive, told a gathering of British Tories that “truth predictor” software is in the works so voters might log on and quickly ascertain the probability — not the certainty — that a politician’s statements are rooted in fact. Of course this will only engender a new sub-species of high-priced campaign advisor: the Web-based probability enhancer.

For the current low-tech incumbents now sweating their seats in Congress, the more responsible and honorable resort has been, and remains, finding the courage to create credible self-controls. The Foley scandal made this clear as it evolved into the ultimate issue of forcing accountability from ranking political powers increasingly distrusted by voters. Surely, the next Congress, however it may be altered, will not be seduced by the siren call of political hypocrisy, will it?

The question of the moment, though, is what that next Congress will look like. Many Republican incumbents — people like Nancy Johnson in Connecticut, Mike Sodrel in Indiana, and Dave Reichert in Washington state — were already teetering on the edge between re-election and rejection by the voters. The Foley scandal — added to voter dissatisfaction with the Iraqssiz War, President Bush, and the general culture of corruption in Washington — could be the final gust that pushes them over the edge, and into retirement.

If that happens, and if the Democrats get the 15-seat gain they need to retake the House of Representatives or the 6-seat gain they need to claim the Senate, they should not get too comfortable. The last major House scandal, over the Congressional Post Office, occurred on their watch, and the next one may, too.

The Foley scandal may prove to be an electoral disaster for the Republicans, and it may even be an impetus for reform. But it is certainly a reminder that Congress — for all of its talk about values and ethics reform — stubbornly remains a scandal waiting to happen.
23 2006-11-01 EX-CENDANT CHAIRMAN CONVICTED -- It took eight years and three trials, but the government finally won its case against Walter A. Forbes, left, the former chairman of the Cendant Corporation. Mr. Forbes was convicted on charges that he masterminded...
24 2006-11-01 The Reserve Bank of India, the nation's central bank, increased its benchmark interest rate for the fourth time this year to rein in inflation even as the Indian economy continued to expand at a furious pace. In a midterm monetary policy review, Y...
25 2006-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
26 2006-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
27 2006-11-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
28 2006-11-02 Empire Zone is now officially suffering from a bout of endorsement vertigo. Yes, Senator John McCain, who was from Arizona last time we checked, is wading into the ever-interesting New York State race for comptroller, offering up an endorsement of...
29 2006-11-02 New shows in New York include "The Sunset Limited" and "Bhutan."...
30 2006-11-02 This business of no screen has come up once before, of course—when the first Shuffle came out. At the time, Apple spun the screenlessness as an advantage, a way for you to surrender to the delightful vagaries of random play, never knowing what will come up next.

Evidently, some people were convinced; Apple says that it has sold ten million original Shuffles. (Newsweek columnist Steve Levy is convinced, too; he’s so charged by the serendipity of random-play mode that he had the chapters in his new book about the iPod, “The Perfect Thing,” published in random order from copy to copy.)

I lived with the new Shuffle for a week, putting this theory to the test. The iTunes software plays along with the serendipity theme; because the Shuffle can’t possibly hold all the music in your collection, iTunes can auto-fill it, at each connection, with a new random sampling of songs. (You can tell it to favor your higher-rated ones, if you like.)

No big surprise here: screenlessness is great for runs, gym workouts, driving, and any time the sequence or the details don’t much matter (although you can turn off shuffle mode if you like). It’s like listening to a radio station—but because the tunes are all drawn from your own collection, it’s a station that never plays a song you don’t like.

What you lose, of course, is the ability to call up any specific song, a loss in any of those “Hey, wanna hear the new song from Three Grisly Plums?” moments. You also miss out on those “What IS this?” moments, when a song comes on that you don’t recognize.

And a reminder: the Shuffle lacks some of the standard features of larger iPods, like the display of videos, photos, games, text files. It also lacks the standard iPod connector, so it doesn’t work with a lot of iPod accessories (external speakers, car adapters and so on).

On the other hand, you gain something, too. A screen would have made the player much bigger (duh) and more fragile, and would also have eaten up a lot of the Shuffle’s 12-hour battery life. (Apple will replace the battery for free if it drops below 50 percent of original capacity within the first two years. Even after that, Apple’s will offer its standard $60 battery-replacement program, although by 2008, the iPod Shuffle will almost certainly be the size of a freckle and cost 25 cents.)

So a screenless iPod isn’t for everybody. But one thing is for certain: if you are willing to surrender yourself to the serendipity of shuffle mode, the new Shuffle is superior to the old one in just about every way. I’m betting that you’ll find it in the toes of millions of stockings this Christmas season.
31 2006-11-02 Buyout house Warburg Pincus and co-investors in Institutional Shareholder Services are poised to make 13 times their original money selling the corporate governance and proxy advisory firm to RiskMetrics Group, according to The Daily Deal. RiskMet...
32 2006-11-02 Credit Suisse Group, Switzerland's second-largest bank, said third-quarter profit slipped after a decline in equity trading reduced earnings from investment banking. But shares of Credit Suisse rose as much as 3.5 percent, the biggest gain in four...
33 2006-11-02 A drop of C$20 billion in the market value of the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday was a crystal-clear sign that, overnight, income trusts had gone from being a favorite Canadian investment to a gigantic headache. The Toronto Stock Exchange ind...
34 2006-11-02 A vociferous advocate of a tie up between XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio, blustery market pundit Jim Cramer told the world he doesn't feel good about a Sirius-Apple merger. On his Real Money radio show, Mr. Cramer, answering a query...
35 2006-11-02 Schering-Plough Chief Executive Officer Fred Hassan said Wednesday that the prices being fetched in the recent wave of big pharmaceutical takeover bids are "breathtaking," and are reflective of how difficult it is for large companies to acquire qu...
36 2006-11-02 Everything's coming up hedge funds for Morgan Stanley this week. The investment bank said yesterday that its investment management unit had acquired a 19 percent stake in London-based hedge fund Lansdowne Partners. The deal is Morgan's third hedge...
37 2006-11-02 Faced with tepid interest in the company as a whole, Tribune said privately Wednesday that it would open its auction to bids for its individual assets, according to press reports. The move is an about-face for the media company, which said in Sept...
38 2006-11-02 China’s enthusiasm for Africa has raised concerns among many in the West at a time when the United States is distracted by its efforts to curb terrorism and France, Britain and other former colonial powers exert less influence there than they once did.

China does not follow the international lending standards that are meant to combat corruption in the region. It has embraced the leaders of Sudan and Zimbabwe at a time when those countries are under heavy pressure to improve their poor human rights records. Major energy companies have complained that China uses its influence to secure oil concessions for its state-owned companies.

Chinese officials say those concerns are overblown or hypocritical, and they deny that they have any grand plans for an exclusive sphere of influence in Africa. But China does have nearly $1 trillion in foreign currency reserves, boundless entrepreneurial energy, and a strong drive to compete on its own terms.

“The Western approach of imposing its values and political system on other countries is not acceptable to China,” said Wang Hongyi, a leading specialist on Africa at the China Institute of International Studies. “We focus on mutual development, not promoting one country at the expense of another.”

China’s economic goal is to secure access to Africa’s abundant supplies of oil, iron ore, copper and cotton at the lowest possible prices, analysts say. Chinese companies view Africa as an open market, neglected by Western multinationals, that they can cultivate with their low-priced manufactured goods.

But if the goal is mostly mercenary, just as European objectives were in Africa 150 years ago, the Chinese method is avowedly anti-imperialist.

The forum’s slogan — “Peace, Friendship, Cooperation, Development” — underscores China’s pledge not to discriminate or intervene. It even invited the four African countries that still extend diplomatic recognition to Taiwan, though none of the four agreed to attend the forum.

Over the long term, Chinese officials hope not only that this overture will give their companies an edge in the competition for resources, but also that it will give their diplomats an advantage at the United Nations and other international organizations, where African countries can constitute a powerful voting block.

Unlike China’s initial push into Africa under Mao, which aimed to support socialist post-colonial regimes, the focus now is on commerce.

“China has offered Africa a new model that focuses on straight commercial relations and fair market prices, without the ideological agenda,” said Moeletsi Mbeki, a South African businessman and political analyst.

“They are not the first big foreign power to come to Africa, but they may be the first not to act as though they are some kind of patron or teacher or conqueror,” he added. “In that sense, there is a meeting of the minds.”

The event here, like most big political affairs in China, promises to be long on ceremony and propaganda and short on substance. President Hu Jintao is meeting a procession of heads of state.

State-media have promoted the “three 50’s:” 50 years of Sino-African cooperation, 53 African countries, $50 billion in two-way trade (a projected figure for 2006). China Central Television is conducting a nationwide survey in China to select 10 outstanding features of Africa. The contenders include Cleopatra, the diamonds of South Africa and the Sahara desert.

Chinese diplomats hint that, before the end of the forum, they will announce a variety of new trade and aid concessions. These may include a list of African goods that will be allowed into China free of tariffs; increases in aid and technical cooperation; and debt forgiveness.

China’s trade with Africa is growing faster than with any other region except the Middle East, increasing tenfold in the past decade, to just shy of $40 billion last year. China buys timber from Congo-Brazzaville, iron ore from South Africa and cobalt and copper from Zambia. An estimated 80,000 Chinese expatriates live in Africa, selling shoes, televisions, and everything else the country that has come to be seen as the world’s factory produces.

More vitally, Africa has helped satisfy China’s growing thirst for oil. Angola, which China has courted assiduously in recent years, recently surpassed Saudi Arabia as China’s largest foreign source of oil.

Sudan, shunned by the West because of its genocidal civil war in Darfur, was a net oil importer before China began investing in its oil fields in 1995. Now Sudan exports about $2 billion worth of crude annually, half of it to China.

China’s aggressive pursuit of raw materials has often been accompanied by generous aid programs, low-interest loans and other gifts that some Western interests say undermine global efforts to encourage honest, efficient government in Africa. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have raised concerns that China’s unrestricted lending, including a new $2 billion credit line for the corruption-plagued Angolan government, has undone years of painstaking efforts to use the promise of debt relief to encourage reforms.

Some African economists complain, too, that the relationship China has in mind — extracting raw materials and then selling manufactured goods back to Africa — is the same kind of mercantilism that has failed to bring sustained growth to Africa in the past.

Human rights groups are also worried about China’s use of its veto power in the United Nations Security Council to protect Sudan and Zimbabwe from international sanctions. The rights groups say China’s arms exports to Sudan are fueling the conflict in Darfur, which has claimed at least 180,000 lives and forced more than 2 million people from their homes.

“China insists that it will not interfere in other countries’ domestic affairs, but it also claims to be a great friend of the African people,” said Sophie Richardson of Human Rights Watch in a statement. “That doesn’t square with staying silent while mass killings go on in Darfur.”

Chinese officials insisted for years that such concerns are the internal affairs of the countries involved, but they have recently changed their stance somewhat.

Zhai Jun, an assistant foreign minister responsible for African affairs, said last week that the Africa forum will address human rights and good governance, and specifically mentioned Sudan.

“The humanitarian situation in Darfur should be improved,” Mr. Zhai said. “We will adopt our own method and use the upcoming summit to do our part.”

Even if China does speak out on some rights issues, its basic strategy of engaging African countries on their own terms remains the core of its foreign policy.

Mr. Jiang, of the University of Alberta, said that while China’s foreign involvements during the cold war were motivated by ideology, the country now has a commercial strategy. As the developing world’s biggest beneficiary of globalization, it hopes to unite with the region most conspicuously left behind, he said.

“From China’s perspective, the Western powers and Western companies have had their chance in Africa, and really, nothing has happened,” he said. ”China is trying a different approach. It is saying, ‘Let us have a chance.’ ”
39 2006-11-02 A State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said that Iran’s “saber-rattling” “underscores the fact that Iran is, at this point in time, with this regime, not a source of stability in the region.”

Iran had test-fired Shahab-3 missiles in the late 1990’s and then upgraded versions of it since then. In 2000, it said that it had successfully test-fired the Shahab-3 missile twice in two months, saying that it had no military purpose but was intended to put communications satellites into orbit.

Today’s exercises come at a particularly sensitive time for Iran and its troubled relationship with the United States, which says Iran’s nuclear program is intended to develop a weapons arsenal.

Earlier this week, more than two dozen countries, including three Arab gulf states, practiced intercepting and searching vessels suspected of trafficking in unconventional weapons. The military maneuvers, conducted about 20 miles outside Iranian territorial waters, appeared to signal to Iran that an American coalition with regional states was intent on denying it access to nuclear, chemical and biological arms.

Iran says that it has the right to develop its nuclear program for power, and a spokesman for the country’s parliamentary national security and foreign affairs council said today on ISNA that Iran intended to launch more centrifuge cascades after starting a second one recently.

“We are preparing another centrifuge cascade and we plan to continue this until we become capable of providing our own nuclear fuel,” said the spokesman, Kazem Jalali. He said they would only be used for research and development.

On Wednesday, the Bush administration also accused Tehran of planning with Syria to topple the Lebanese government. And the United Nations Security Council has demanded that Iran halt its enrichment program, and members were debating a resolution that could entail sanctions.

Iran fired Scud missiles at Baghdad and Kirkuk during its war with Iraq in the 1980’s and later embarked on an effort to secure additional missiles and missile technology from foreign suppliers, including North Korea. The Shahab-3 is a liquid-fueled missile that is based on North Korea’s No-dong missile.

The State Department said in March that Iran had a “very active and aggressive” military program, after Iran announced that it had test-fired another missile known as the Fajr-3, which Iranian officials then said was capable of carrying several warheads and evading an enemy’s radar.

During the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah this summer, Hezbollah fired several rockets deep inside Israel that American and Israeli officials believed might have been an upgraded version of the Fajr-3 supplied by Iran.
40 2006-11-02 A 50-year-old police officer from San Francisco reportedly committed suicide in his jail cell in Phnom Penh after being accused on Monday of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. A Cambodian official said the officer, Donald Ramirez, had stolen a guard’s gun and shot himself.
41 2006-11-02 Britain held out the prospect of $95 billion for economic reconstruction in Northern Ireland over the next decade if its political adversaries agree to a power-sharing government in the province. Gordon Brown, left, the British chancellor of the exchequer, and Peter Hain, the British Northern Ireland secretary, briefed members of the province’s fractious political parties on the financial package in talks in London. The parties must accept or reject a formula to restore Northern Ireland’s power-sharing government by Nov. 10.
42 2006-11-02 Still, for some, the best part about the Latin Grammys finally arriving in New York is not the sentimental link to the past, but the prospect of matching one of the most diverse awards shows — which includes categories for Mexican regional music styles alongside salsa, merengue, pop and rock — with one of the most diverse Latino populations in the country.

Puerto Ricans have long made up New York’s largest Latino group, but they are joined now by large numbers of immigrants from the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil and Mexico, to name a few countries. The Latin Grammys have 47 categories, everything from tejano to reggaetón, and performers must sing in Spanish or Portuguese.

Then there is the opportunity for Latin performers to plug in to New York’s vast musical universe, especially those who want to cross over to English audiences.

“There is no doubt that New York makes the platform higher and wider,” said Gabriel Abaroa, the president of the Latin Recording Academy, which sponsors the awards.

“It’s like all of the sudden you are playing in the big leagues,” Mr. Abaroa added, describing the age-old experience of every aspiring nobody who tried to make it in New York. “When you have that, you challenge yourself to make sure you deliver to the standards of this city.”

Sometimes, the big, anonymous city delivers something back. Ricky Martin, who accepted the academy’s Person of the Year Award at a banquet last night, recalled the eight months in 1990 when he lived in Long Island City after five hectic years in the boy band Menudo.

“I was 18 and I wanted to know what I wanted with life,” Mr. Martin said yesterday. “I wasn’t even sure if I wanted to be back in the business. And to live anonymously and to be able to sit on a park bench and think, it was an interesting moment.”

The awards, first held in 2000, have been staged in Los Angeles and Miami. Latin music is the only music category that has registered growth in national sales in the past two years, according to Ms. Cobo. In heavily Mexican parts of the city, like Elmhurst and Corona, Queens, where iPods are a rare sight, Latin music stores are thriving, even as other music stores go out of business.

While the city’s Economic Development Corporation estimates that the show, which will be broadcast on the Univision television network, will generate $30 million for New York businesses, some hope all the attention will eventually give the city something else: a new movement in Latin music to call its own.

Perhaps, Ms. Cobo mused, there is a musical sound percolating among the city’s new Latin immigrants that has yet to be discovered.

Elena Martinez, a New York folklorist, had a more modest aim for the Latin Grammys. “I hope it does bring recognition for the younger generation who has grown up on Shakira,” she said. “I don’t know if they’re aware of the history or the roots and a lot of those roots are here in New York City.”
43 2006-11-02 A bouquet of green roses topped by a single, unlit cigar sat in Red Auerbach’s empty seat at the new Boston Garden last night as the Celtics opened the season without their patriarch for the first time in half a century.

A pregame tribute showed video of Auerbach — accompanied by Frank Sinatra’s “My Way” — running his teams through drills, berating officials, yelling out plays and settling back in his chair to light up a victory cigar, something the fans never got to do last night. Those in the expensive courtside seats were given cigars, but the Celtics lost to the New Orleans Hornets, 91-87.

Despite several second-half comebacks, the Celtics could not overcome Hornets point guard Chris Paul’s 20 points and 10 assists — or Peja Stojakovic’s two baskets in the final two minutes.

Auerbach, who had seen all 56 previous Celtics season openers, died Saturday of a heart attack near his Washington home at the age of 89.

Paul Pierce led Boston with 29 points and 19 rebounds, but missed 8 of his 15 free throws.

“It was a great honor for me to even know Red,” Pierce, the Celtics’ captain, told the fans before the game, surrounded by past greats like Bob Cousy, John Havlicek and Robert Parish. “As we move forward, we’ve got to continue to celebrate his legacy.”
44 2006-11-02 And the effort invested in contests for school board, city council, sheriff and state legislatures is emblematic of how much stock voters, interest groups and political parties are placing on local elections.

“I sort of argue it’s the hidden election,” Tim Storey, an election analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures, said of the local races. “It’s very localized, but in a strange way it’s more important. It’s how good your school is, how good your road is, how good the hospitals are.”

Some of the races, especially those for state legislatures, have attracted the national political parties. Partisan interest groups have also paid for advertisements in some races.

In Colorado, for example, immigration issues have been highlighted in advertisements in the State Senate contest in Jefferson County between Betty Boyd, the Democratic incumbent, and Matt Knoedler, a Republican state representative, and in the State House race between the incumbent, James L. Riesberg, a Democrat, and his challenger, David T. Owen, a Republican state senator.

“Special interests have discovered that if you want to get something done, you’re going to have to work with legislatures and governors, because you’re not going to get anything done in Congress,” Mr. Storey said. “They are doing television, doing very targeted walk-the-precinct strategies. State legislative groups are able to raise more money than ever before.”

Some issues mirror national ones writ smaller. Take ethics. Several races have local parallels with national scandals. In San Jose, Calif., the mayor’s race is being run against the background of the indictment of the current mayor, Ron Gonzales, on corruption charges.

Mr. Gonzales is not seeking re-election, but the two candidates running to succeed him have cast aspersions about ethics against each other.

In Alaska, an F.B.I. investigation into ties between lawmakers and a major oil field services company could influence several legislative races. Only one of the six legislators whose offices were searched by federal investigators is running for re-election, but some polls suggest that the investigation has created a wave of n anti-incumbent sentiment.

In North Carolina, Speaker Jim Black, a Democrat, is seeking re-election amid a federal and state investigation of people connected with his office. Mr. Black has not been charged, but three people have been convicted, including Mr. Black’s first appointee to the state lottery commission, his former political director, and a former state representative who said he took $50,000 from a Democrat to support Mr. Black.

The investigation is being used as political fodder, not only by Mr. Black’s Republican opponent, Hal Jordan, but also by Republicans in other statehouse races who are trying to link their opponents to Mr. Black or to paint Democrats as ethically questionable.

In other elections, crime has taken local permutations. The mayor’s race in Little Rock, Ark., is a four-way contest over ways to deal with a surge in violent crime and the overflowing Pulaski County Jail.

In South Carolina, Sheriff Steve McCaskill of Kershaw County, a Republican, has been criticized by his opponent, Sammie Tucker Jr., a Democrat and former highway patrolman, for not issuing an Amber Alert in the case of a 14-year-old girl who was kidnapped and held in an underground bunker for 10 days. Sheriff McCaskill has said the girl’s case did not meet Amber Alert criteria because law enforcement officials did not have a suspect, a description of a car, or even a clear idea that the girl had been abducted.

In the Massachusetts governor’s race, the Republican candidate, Lt. Gov. Kerry Healey, has made an issue of the fact that her Democratic opponent, Deval Patrick, had advocated the release of Benjamin LaGuer, who Mr. Patrick believed had been wrongly convicted of rape. Mr. Patrick withdrew his support of Mr. LaGuer when a DNA test linked Mr. LaGuer to the crime.

Ms. Healey has repeatedly raised the rape issue, producing an advertisement showing a woman walking in a dark parking garage and Mr. Patrick in a television interview describing Mr. LaGuer as “eloquent” and “thoughtful.”

The advertisement says: “If anyone you knew actually praised a convicted rapist, what would you think?” and concludes, “Deval Patrick. He should be ashamed, not governor.”

Polls, however, suggest that the advertisement has not drawn voters to Ms. Healey, and Mr. Patrick is considered comfortably ahead.

Not every state or local election is turning on a larger national issue. In Pennsylvania, voters are angry over a raise approved last year by state legislators. It was retracted, and 17 lawmakers were defeated in the May primary. But the issue could still reverberate.

Indiana has two issues found nowhere else. One is the decision to lease the Indiana Toll Road to a private Spanish-Australian group, and the other is daylight saving time, which the state imposed last year on Indiana’s patchwork of time zones.

Both issues have resulted in anger at Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, and the Republican-controlled legislature.

Although some Indianans welcome the money from the lease, others are rankled that a state highway is being controlled by foreign investors.

And as Indianans turned their clocks back one hour on Sunday for the first time in 30 years, many business owners are grateful to be in step with other parts of the country, but some are angered by a new pattern of confusion.

A public employees union paid George Schricker $150 to write a song about the controversy:

I come from Indiana, where we’re losing track of time.
45 2006-11-02 Initial offers for the company as a whole came only from private equity firms; none came from newspaper companies. The sale of assets individually could attract more offers, possibly from newspaper companies and an array of wealthy people who have already publicly expressed interest in some of the papers.

They include three billionaires in Los Angeles, David L. Geffen, Eli Broad and Ronald W. Burkle, who have said they were interested in owning The Los Angeles Times. The Gannett Company, which owns papers across the country, including some in Florida, might be interested in newspapers in Orlando and Fort Lauderdale. And William Dean Singleton, chief executive of the MediaNews Group, which also owns papers across the country, could be interested in The Hartford Courant and The Morning Call in Allentown, Pa., since he owns papers near both of them.

Still, sales of individual assets by Tribune is not a foregone conclusion. Such sales could cause substantial tax consequences for the company.

Another option for Tribune would be to take itself private, which could create substantial debt. That could involve selling off some of the smaller newspapers and perhaps the television group as a whole to finance the deal, leaving a core company with major assets like The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and the Cubs.

A company spokesman declined to comment. The company announced in September that it was exploring its options as a way to improve the value of its shares and indicated that it would first consider selling the company as a whole.

“In order to maximize shareholder value, our initial focus is determining the best strategic alternatives for the company and its publishing and broadcast groups as a whole, before evaluating strategic alternatives for individual business units,” Dennis J. FitzSimons, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement at the time.

He also said the company wanted to conclude the process by the end of the year. And he told The Wall Street Journal at the time that The Los Angeles Times was not for sale.

Those involved in the process said yesterday that the next step would be to open up a data room where bidders could examine the company’s books in detail. Only a book with sketchy details was available until now.

One person involved cautioned that at this stage of such auctions, companies sometimes say they are disappointed with early bids in order to increase them. Another said that the bids were low for a reason. “These are difficult businesses in troubled times and they are all underperforming,” he said of many newspapers.

“Look at the Knight Ridder papers that were sold to individuals,” he added. “They are mainly doing badly.”
46 2006-11-02 TEHRAN, Nov. 1 — Iran is offering money to travel agents who can lure certain types of tourists to Iran, and the rate is double for bringing European and American travelers.

“Iran’s Tourism Department will pay $20 for every American or European tourist that travel agents can bring,” Mohammad Sharif Malekzadeh, deputy director of the Tourism and Cultural Heritage Organization, said Tuesday in a statement reported by the news agency IRNA. The statement also specified a $10 payment for luring Asian tourists.

Iran has been trying to expand its tourism industry, in particular to attract more Westerners. Officials have repeatedly said that despite hostile relations with the United States government, Americans visiting the country should be treated with respect.

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said last week that he was against proposed legislation to require American travelers to be fingerprinted at the airport. Lawmakers said they were responding to similar requirements imposed by the United States on some Iranian travelers.

“We do not have a problem with American people,” Mr. Ahmadinejad said. “We oppose only the U.S. government’s bullying and arrogance.”
47 2006-11-02 Microsoft plans to observe the release of Windows Vista and Office 2007 to corporate customers on Nov. 30 with an event in New York.

The software maker announced the event — and the release date — in an invitation to journalists yesterday. A third Microsoft program, Exchange Server 2007, a messaging and collaboration product, will be released as well.

Both Vista and Office had originally been scheduled to arrive on store shelves and new PC’s in time for this year’s holiday season. But in March, Microsoft delayed the debut of the consumer versions until January.

Microsoft had said corporate users would get Vista this month, Office by the end of the year, and Exchange late this year or early next year.
48 2006-11-02 OTTAWA, Nov. 1 — A drop of 20 billion Canadian dollars in the market value of the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday was a crystal-clear sign that, overnight, income trusts had gone from being a favorite Canadian investment to a gigantic headache.

The Toronto Stock Exchange index for trust investments fell 13 percent because of a surprise announcement on Tuesday that the tax advantages would be eliminated for income trusts, which have been able to avoid most taxes because they pay the bulk of their profits to owners.

BCE, the parent of Bell Canada, announced plans last month to convert to a trust. Its shares closed down 11 percent, after dropping as much as 14 percent during intra-day trading. Over all, the Toronto exchange’s composite index fell 294 points, or 2.4 percent, to 12,050.

As investors sold off holdings, income trusts and companies that had been thinking about converting to a trust were forced to reconsider their plans. The Conservative government, which came to power in January partly on the platform that they would leave trusts alone, found itself under attack from many traditional allies, as well as its usual opponents.

“After having come to power with the explicit promise of not touching trusts, we now have an about-face,” said Basil A. Kalymon, a professor of finance who teaches at the University of Western Ontario. “We now have a very unstable policy climate and markets do not like instability.”
49 2006-11-02 Erik Watnik, a State Department spokesman, said it had not received the petition. Veronica Gomez, a lawyer for the commission, said the petition would be transmitted to the State Department with a request for a response if an analysis shows that it is admissible.

The petitioners are asking that the commission find the United States, and several state governments including New York, New Jersey, Kansas, Pennsylvania and Michigan, in violation of the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, adopted by the United States in 1948.

The petitioners include a union in Utah that says it was helping mine workers to fight unsafe conditions and low pay, only to see 29 fired for lack of proper immigration papers when they tried to organize. Among other petitioners is a Chinese woman who said she was forced to leave her job in New Jersey because of sexual harassment, and a Kansas painter who sought workman’s compensation after a fall from scaffolding, but was prosecuted for using a false document to get the job and deported to Mexico.

“You’re stuck with a convoluted and seemingly absurd situation,” said Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates restrictions on immigration. “You find yourself debating how much protection to give to somebody who isn’t even supposed to be here. The solution to the problem is to enforce the law and to eliminate illegal immigration.”

But lawyers for the petitioners say that once workers are on the job, human rights principles require that their lives be protected equally, regardless of what the commission calls “migratory status.”

In the case of the widow of the worker killed at the Brooklyn site, identified in the petition only as Yolanda L.R., she filed a wrongful death claim that is still pending. Her husband’s employer was separately convicted of criminal negligence, but her lawyers have warned her that under recent court decisions, any compensation awarded for her husband’s death will be diminished because her husband was an illegal immigrant.

The issue is rooted in the Supreme Court’s 2002 holding that an unauthorized worker fired in retaliation for his part in a union organizing campaign was not entitled to the remedy of back pay. Relying on that ruling, the petition said, many states have limited or eliminated protections like compensation for workplace injuries, freedom from workplace discrimination, and the right to hold an employer responsible for an injury at work.

This provides a further incentive for unscrupulous employers to hire illegal immigrant workers, the petition said.
50 2006-11-02 Even prominent art dealers are jumping into the auctions. William Acquavella, the Manhattan dealer, is selling a rare 1895 Cézanne still life at Sotheby’s — the most important painting in its sale on Tuesday — but not without a guarantee, which experts say is in excess of $30 million.

“There’s a demand for these kind of masterpieces,” Mr. Acquavella said. “I bought the picture at the right price and think now is a good time to sell.” He purchased the Cézanne at Christie’s in London six years ago for $18.1 million; it is now estimated at $28 million to $35 million.

That adage that the “3 Ds” — debt, divorce and death — bring art to the market should now have an “R” added, for restitution. In Christie’s Wednesday evening sale of Impressionist and Modern art alone, works by Klimt, Kirchner, Vuillard and Picasso recently restored to the heirs of owners from whom art was looted by the Nazis in World War II account for an estimated $125 million worth of art. Most of these works had hung for decades in museums, where the public thought they would safely stay.

Now they will be offered to the biggest buying pool ever. It’s not just American hedge-fund billionaires who are fueling prices or, as in the 1980s, the Japanese. Financiers from Asia, Russia and India are quickly becoming collectors. And auction houses, unlike dealers, have offices around the world staffed with experts who both advise and tempt clients.

Christie’s is once again dominating the next two weeks; both its Impressionist-and-Modern auction on Wednesday evening and its postwar-and-contemporary sale a week later are larger and more impressive than those of its archrival, Sotheby’s. Solid teams of experts, long-term connections and aggressive financing are the reasons, not to mention a bit of luck.

Although Sotheby’s and Christie’s like to promote each work as a masterpiece, blockbusters really make up only a small percentage of this season’s offerings. Heading the group is Gauguin’s “Man With an Ax” (1891), a richly colored canvas painted in Tahiti. Christie’s estimates it will sell for $34 million to $45 million. Although the seller identification reads only “property of a lady of title,” experts say it is from a member the family of the Sultan of Brunei.

Christie’s is also auctioning Picasso’s soulful 1903 portrait of his friend Angel Fernández de Soto seated at a Barcelona cafe table shrouded in tobacco smoke. Eleven years ago the composer Andrew Lloyd Webber bought it at Sotheby’s in New York for $29.1 million. At the time he said he was buying it for his foundation, which supports theaters and young actors. It is now expected to sell for $40 million to $60 million, with the money going back into the foundation.

As important as the Picasso and the Gauguin are, all eyes will be on four Klimts that were recently on view at the Neue Galerie in Manhattan. The paintings, along with “Adele Bloch-Bauer I,” for which Ronald S. Lauder paid a record $135 million in June, were relinquished by Austria this year, after a long legal battle, to a niece of Mrs. Bloch-Bauer, Maria Altmann of Los Angeles, and other family members, who are selling them next week. The four works, together valued at nearly $100 million, consist of three landscapes and another portrait of Mrs. Bloch-Bauer, from 1912.

As soon as Christie’s announced it was selling the Klimts, Mr. Lauder said he would love to buy them all for the Neue Galerie, if the price was right, especially the later portrait of Mrs. Bloch-Bauer. But whether a shopping spree is in his future is a matter of speculation. To help pay for “Adele Bloch-Bauer I” he has put three works by Schiele that had hung at the Neue Galerie — two watercolors and a painting together estimated at $45 million — up for sale at Christie’s on Wednesday.

By comparison Sotheby’s Impressionist and Modern art sale, despite its 85 lots, is a tepid affair. Many of the works have been on the market in the last decade. In addition to Mr. Acquavella’s Cézanne, there is “The Card Game,” a 1893 Toulouse-Lautrec of two women in a Paris brothel. The seller is Mr. Kravis, a former Sotheby’s board member, who bought the painting privately six years ago for an undisclosed sum. It is now estimated at $5 million to $7 million.

This season’s catalogs of postwar and contemporary art are stuffed with blue-chip names. Two artists in particular stand out: Warhol and de Kooning. The cover images of Sotheby’s and Christie’s catalogs are being called “the dueling Warhols.” Christie’s shows a 1962 “Orange Marilyn” being sold by the San Francisco collector Roger Evans, estimated at $10 million to $15 million; Sotheby’s has a 1964 self-portrait estimated at $3.5 million to $4.5 million. The seller is Jean-Christophe Castelli, son of the legendary dealer Leo Castelli, who died in 1999. Both Warhols were once in Leo Castelli’s private collection.

“What has become clear is the sheer rarity of classic Warhol images of the 1960s and early 1970s,” said Brett Gorvy, a co-head of postwar and contemporary art at Christie’s. “There are traditional Impressionist and Modern art collectors who now see that buying a Marilyn is as powerful as buying a great Picasso. He’s also one artist who speaks to collectors all over the world.”

Tobias Meyer, head of contemporary art for Sotheby’s worldwide, says today’s crop of new rich also wants de Kooning. “De Kooning is the new Rothko of this market,” Mr. Meyer said. “But unlike great Rothkos, there is still enough supply.”
51 2006-11-02 The Hollywood entertainment magnate David Geffen has sold a classic drip painting by Jackson Pollock for about $140 million, art experts with knowledge of the transaction said yesterday.

That price, if officially confirmed, would be the highest sum ever known to have been paid for a painting, exceeding the $135 million that the cosmetics heir Ronald S. Lauder paid in June for Gustav Klimt’s “Adele Bloch-Bauer I.”

The experts spoke on condition of anonymity, saying they did not want to be perceived as betraying the confidence of the seller or the buyer of the Pollock, “No. 5, 1948,” or jeopardize future business.

Reached by telephone, Mr. Geffen declined to comment on whether he sold the painting. Tobias Meyer of Sotheby’s is said to have brokered the deal.

The art-world experts identified the buyer as David Martinez, the Mexican financier who bought a two-floor apartment in the south building of the Time Warner Center for $54.7 million recently.

Mr. Martinez did not return calls seeking comment. Obsessively private, he has emerged as a megabuyer in modern and contemporary art in recent years, snapping up works by masters like de Kooning and Rothko both privately and at auction.
52 2006-11-02 GURIN--George, November 1, 2006. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father to Carole Moskowitz (Harold) and Neil (Mary). Cherished grandfather of Jill, Andrew, Amanda and Matthew. Loving great-grandfather of Daniel, Alex, Julia, Jessica and Talia. W...
53 2006-11-02 WELCH'S NEW LIFE While many chief executives take the opportunity of retirement to enjoy a more sedate existence of golf and charity events, Jack Welch has embarked on a frantic second career and life. [Page C1.]    FARMERS AND ETHANOL Midwest far...
54 2006-11-02 Want to have your picture taken with a famous politician at a fundraiser near you? Be prepared to pay a hefty price, usually over and above the price of admission to the event. The price can vary from $200 per couple for a photo with Lynne Cheney ...
55 2006-11-02 A 50-year-old police officer from San Francisco reportedly committed suicide in his jail cell in Phnom Penh after being accused on Monday of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. A Cambodian official said the officer, Donald Ramirez, had stolen ...
56 2006-11-02 The Hollywood entertainment magnate David Geffen has sold a classic drip painting by Jackson Pollock for about $140 million, art experts with knowledge of the transaction said yesterday.     That price, if officially confirmed, would be the highes...
57 2006-11-02 A 50-year-old police officer from San Francisco reportedly committed suicide in his jail cell in Phnom Penh after being accused on Monday of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. A Cambodian official said the officer, Donald Ramirez, had stolen ...
58 2006-11-02 VAN STOCKUM--Hilda, noted author, illustrator and painter, whose children's books have won Newbery honors and the National Conference of Christians and Jews Brotherhood Award, died peacefully at her home in Berkhamsted, U.K. on All Saints Day afte...
59 2006-11-02 Illustrations of a dapper beaver-about-town now appearing on billboards around New York are just the tip of the cocktail stirrer. André Balazs, top, the club maestro turned hotelier turned developer, created the character to promote William Beave...
60 2006-11-03 This 30-second commercial by State Comptroller Alan Hevesi began airing Thursday on cable and broadcast television. Producer: Morris & Carrick Inc. The Script: Mr. Hevesi (speaking directly to the camera): "Honest concern for my wife Carol led me ...
61 2006-11-03 The ad wars and retail politics infuse the final days of the tight, tight Senate race in Missouri....
62 2006-11-03 Up Next in Video
63 2006-11-03 Up Next in Video
64 2006-11-03 Claire McCaskill attacks Senator Jim Talent for his support of President Bush.
65 2006-11-03 A new ad from the Democrat running against Senator Jim Talent.
66 2006-11-03 Here's what editorial boards are saying about candidates in those states....
67 2006-11-03 If media companies - and especially newspaper companies - are having so much trouble, and facing so much uncertainty, why do private equity firms seem to like them so much? The Economist offers a simple answer. "Public markets," the magazine expla...
68 2006-11-03 The new iPod Shuffle officially hits the streets tomorrow. According to Apple, it's the world's smallest MP3 player....
69 2006-11-03 Ford may add another former Boeing executive to its stables. Jerry Calhoun, Boeing's top labor negotiator and vice president of human resources at the Commercial Airplanes unit, will retire sometime early next year, and is negotiating a consulting...
70 2006-11-03 Three Seattle entrepreneurs are teaming up to get into the hedge fund act. Zillow.com Chief Executive Rich Barton, Second Avenue Partners co-founder Nick Hanauer and Delafield Hambrecht Chief Executive J.D. Delafield are in the early stages of lau...
71 2006-11-03 Two former Goldman Sachs executives have beaten a record set by their old firm, raising a tidy 440 million euros ($562 million) in an initial public offering of a hedge fund vehicle. Emmanuel Gavaudan and Emmanuel Boussard, who quit Goldman in 200...
72 2006-11-03 Nationwide Financial Services, an Ohio insurance company, is looking to sell the U.S. arm of the former Gartmore Group, six months after selling Gartmore's European hedge fund business. In an about-face, Nationwide said yesterday that it would auc...
73 2006-11-03 The holiday shopping season is starting early this year. As in today.

Expecting a grim November, Wal-Mart Stores said it would immediately slash prices on 100 popular electronics, abruptly rearranging the Christmas calendar for its customers and competitors.

The drastic discounts on televisions laptops and cameras, traditionally reserved for the day after Thanksgiving, are expected to touch off a price war as discount rivals Target, Best Buy and Circuit City scramble to match the move.

For Wal-Mart, the strategy represents a bold bet that it can save Christmas by single-mindedly stressing low prices, a message that has become clouded by efforts to carry higher-end merchandise.

Over the past year, Wal-Mart had played down advertisements featuring its sword-wielding, price-slashing smiley face, replacing them with sleek-looking spots tempting customers to buy silk camisoles and 300-threat count sheets.

But this season, the rollback (as Wal-Mart calls price cutting) is back.

The sharp price cuts announced today — $500 off a Panasonic 42 inch HD plasma television (now $1,294) and $300 off a 37-inch Polaroid LCD television (now $997) — are the company’s second round of the season. It sliced the price of 100 popular toys, several by more than $20, on Oct. 18.
74 2006-11-03 Also today, a United Nations report released today warned that it did not have enough money to care for the soaring numbers of refugees within Iraq or in neighboring countries, where it said about 70,000 Iraqis are arriving each month.

And Iraqi officials moved to beef up security in preparation for the expected announcement on Sunday of a verdict in the trial of Saddam Hussein for the torture and executions of Shiite villagers in 1982. The Associated Press reported that Defense Minister Abdel Kader Jassem al-Obeidi canceled all leaves for army officers and made plans to call up reservists.

The news service said that Mr. Obeidi was heard giving the orders in a videotape of a meeting with Mr. Maliki that was broadcast on Iraqi television. In the video, the prime minister is seen upbraiding security officials for failing to stop the violence in the capital.

Mr. Negroponte did not make any public comment in Baghdad, but Mr. Maliki’s spokesman, Yaseen Majeed, said that the two “discussed the need for the Iraqi armed forces to have enough numbers and equipment to take charge of the security portfolio.”

Mr. Maliki has been pushing to speed up the handoff of security responsibility from coalition forces to Iraqi troops. He complained late last month that his authority over the Iraqi armed forces was too limited, and he sharply rejected a set of timetables announced by the American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad.

In response, Prime Minister Maliki and President Bush held a videoconference in which Mr. Maliki praised Mr. Bush and Mr. Bush assured the prime minister of continued American support.

Since then, American officials have played down reports of discord. Mr. Bush’s national security advisor, Stephen Hadley, traveled to Baghdad earlier this week to “reinforce” Mr. Bush’s message, he said.

Officials at Iraqi’s interior ministry said today that 56 bodies had been found in the capital between 6 a.m. Thursday and 6 a.m. today. The Associated Press quoted a police lieutenant who said that all the victims were men between the ages of 20 and 45 who had been bound and tortured.

On Thursday, an American military spokesman said that sectarian killings in Baghdad had dropped by 41 percent during the week of Oct. 23, when the holy month of Ramadan ended, compared with the week before.

The spokesman, Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, attributed the decline in part to the end of Ramadan, during which violence has risen during each of the past two years. He said calls for calm from Iraqi clerics and stepped-up America operations in the capital also played a role.

Much of that increased American activity was connected to a search for a missing American soldier, Specialist Ahmed Qusai al-Taie, who was kidnapped on Oct. 23. The authorities suspect the involvement of the Mahdi Army, a militia loyal to an anti-American Shiite cleric, Moqtada al-Sadr, and the search had centered on Karada, the neighborhood where Specialist Taie was abducted, and on Sadr City, the Mahdi Army’s stronghold.

Last Friday, Mr. Maliki ordered the lifting of a cordon around Sadr City after angry protests by residents whose movements were severely restricted. The country’s Sunni leadership in turn complained that the move would lead to an increase in killings by the Shiite death squads that have operated with near-total impunity in the capital.

Three civilians were killed by mortar fire today in Dora, one of the neighborhoods that has been a focus of an American-led effort to bring stability to Baghdad.

In Geneva today, officials at the United Nations refugee agency said they were “distressed” by the growing gap between the needs of Iraqis fleeing the country’s mounting violence and the resources that have been made available by the international community to help them.

Since the bombing of a Shiite shrine in Samarra in February, which touched off a spiral of sectarian killings, about 50,000 Iraqis have moved within the country each month, and the net exodus to other countries, primarily Syria and Jordan, is now running at about 70,000 a month, said Ron Redmond, a spokesman for the agency.

Before the 2003 invasion, the agency had planned to spend $154 million to cope with the needs of an estimated 600,000 refugees. “Today, we are faced with hundreds of thousands more displaced than we had planned for then, but have a $29 million budget that is only about 60 percent funded,” the agency said in a statement. Some relief efforts have been suspended, and some staff members have volunteered to work without pay to keep others going, it said.

“We fear hundreds of thousands more Iraqis who have waited to see an improvement in the situation are now teetering on the brink of displacement,” the statement said. “Many urban professionals have already fled. Doctors, teachers, computer technicians and other skilled people crucial to the country’s stability and well-being are leaving.”

Mr. Redmond wrote in an e-mail message that before the war, the agency had assumed that many of the refugees would be people returning to Iraq from exile.

“After the fall of Saddam, we initially saw tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees going home — mainly from Iran,” he wrote. “In 2004, some 200,000 went home. So far this year, less than 500 went home. Many, many more are going in the other direction now.”
75 2006-11-03 The New Orleans City Council voted unanimously to create a government watchdog office to oversee the spending of billions of dollars in federal aid to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina. The measure still needs to be approved by Mayor C. Ray Nagin. The office is expected to cost $400,000 a year. For months, supporters of the plan, citing the city’s reputation for political corruption, have pushed for the creation of an inspector general to send a message that the city can be trusted to spend the aid properly. The inspector general would get subpoena powers to carry out investigations and audits.
76 2006-11-03 In a ruling that could have repercussions nationwide, a Superior Court judge in Oakland, Calif., has ordered the group that administers the Medical College Admission Test to change its procedures for handling learning-disabled students’ requests for extra time and other special accommodations, to comply with California’s laws protecting students with disabilities. The case, brought in 2004 by four college graduates with dyslexia and other learning disabilities, deals only with the standards required by California law. It is unclear whether the group, the Association of American Medical Colleges, would change its procedures nationwide for handling requests for extra time or whether it would have different procedures for California students and those from other states. Robert Burgoyne, a lawyer for the association, said the case was likely to be appealed.
77 2006-11-03 New York State health officials have cited Stony Brook University Medical Center for 17 violations, including administering incorrect drug dosages and overlooking symptoms in a patient involved in a traffic accident who later died of head injuries, hospital officials confirmed yesterday. The hospital, which has 504 beds and is the largest in Suffolk County, issued this statement:

“Most of the concerns expressed by the Department of Health relate to administrative processes, such as policy development. We take them very seriously. In some cases, the instances date back several years. We have been working, and continue to work, in full cooperation with the D.O.H. to address its concerns.”

The state inspection process allows the hospital to respond and requires corrective actions. Fines are also possible.

In May, the Health Department found 19 violations in pediatric surgery at the hospital, citing three patient deaths. One patient was found to have received a drug dose 27 times what is normal, the state said. Another patient had not been properly screened before surgery and a third died while awaiting surgery for days.

In the latest review, several violations cited by the state were procedural, including failing to ensure the privacy of patient records, ignoring credentialing requirements in appointing doctors and authorizing them to practice specialties. In making reappointments, the state said that the hospital also failed to check its records for problems and that one doctor was reappointed without a review of complications in his patients, one of whom died.

In the case of the traffic injury, the state said proper care was delayed about 20 hours, despite worsening symptoms. The patient complained of vomiting and a headache. Later a nurse found the patient restless, agitated and pulling out his intravenous tubes. The patient vomited three times and then was noted as being lethargic and nonresponsive with the left pupil fixed and extremities flaccid.
78 2006-11-03 The bipartisan opposition may not be unexpected given Mr. Bowen’s Republican credentials — he served under George W. Bush both in Texas and in the White House — and deep public skepticism on the Bush administration’s conduct of the war.

Susan Collins, a Maine Republican who followed the bill closely as chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, says that she still does not know how the provision made its way into what is called the conference report, which reconciles differences between House and Senate versions of a bill.

Neither the House nor the Senate version contained such a termination clause before the conference, all involved agree.

“It’s truly a mystery to me,” Ms. Collins said. “I looked at what I thought was the final version of the conference report and that provision was not in at that time.”

“The one thing I can confirm is that this was a last-minute insertion,” she said.

A Republican spokesman for the committee, Josh Holly, said lawmakers should not have been surprised by the provision closing the inspector general’s office because it “was discussed very early in the conference process.”

But like several other members of the House and Senate who were contacted on the bill, Ms. Collins said that she feared the loss of oversight that could occur if the inspector general’s office went out of business, adding that she was already working on legislation with several Democratic and Republican senators to reverse the termination.

One of those, John W. Warner, the Virginia Republican who is chairman of the powerful Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a statement that Mr. Bowen was “making a valuable contribution to the Congressional and public understanding of this very complex and ever-changing situation in Iraq.”

“Given that his office has performed important work and that much remains to be done,” Mr. Warner added, “I intend to join Senator Collins in consulting with our colleagues to extend his charter.”

While Senators Collins and Warner said they had nothing more than hunches on where the impetus for setting a termination date had originated, Congressional Democrats were less reserved.

“It appears to me that the administration wants to silence the messenger that is giving us information about waste and fraud in Iraq,” said Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform.

“I just can’t see how one can look at this change without believing it’s political,” he said.

The termination language was inserted into the bill by Congressional staff members working for Duncan Hunter, the California Republican who is the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and who declared on Monday that he plans to run for president in 2008.

Mr. Holly, who is the House Armed Services spokesman as well as a member of Mr. Hunter’s staff, said that politics played no role and that there had been no direction from the administration or lobbying from the companies whose work in Iraq Mr. Bowen’s office has severely critiqued. Three of the companies that have been a particular focus of Mr. Bowen’s investigations, Halliburton, Parsons and Bechtel, said that they had made no effort to lobby against his office.

The idea, Mr. Holly said, was simply to return to a non-wartime footing in which inspectors general in the State Department, the Pentagon and elsewhere would investigate American programs overseas. The definite termination date was also seen as helpful for planning future oversight efforts from Bush administration agencies, he said.

But in Congress, particularly on the Democratic side of the aisle, there have long been accusations that agencies controlled by the Bush administration are not inclined to unearth their own shortcomings in the first place.

The criticism came to a head in a hearing a year ago, when Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat, induced the Pentagon’s acting inspector general, Thomas Gimble, to concede that he had no agents deployed in Iraq, more than two years after the invasion.

A spokesman for the Pentagon inspector general said Thursday that Mr. Gimble had worked to improve that situation, and currently had seven auditors in Baghdad and others working on Iraq-related issues in the United States and elsewhere. Mr. Gimble was in Iraq on Thursday, the spokesman said.

Mr. Bowen’s office has 55 auditors and inspectors in Iraq and about 300 reports and investigations already to its credit, far outstripping any other oversight agency in the country.

But Howard Krongard, the State Department inspector general, said that the comparison was misleading, because many of those resources would probably flow to State and the Pentagon if Congress shuts Mr. Bowen’s office down.

“I think we are competitive to do what they ask us to do,” Mr. Krongard said, referring to Congress.

Mr. Kucinich and other lawmakers said that Iraq oversight could also be hurt by the loss of Mr. Bowen’s mandate, which allows him to cross institutional boundaries, while the other inspectors general have jurisdictions only within their own agencies. Mr. Krongard said that issue could be handled by cooperation among the inspectors general.

Officials at the State Department and the Pentagon made it clear that in general terms they supported Mr. Bowen’s work and would abide by the wishes of Congress.

While the quality of Mr. Bowen’s work is seldom questioned, he is sometimes accused of being a grandstander who is too friendly with the news media. Mr. Bowen has responded that it is standard procedure to publicize successful investigations as a way of discouraging other potential wrongdoers.

Among the disagreements on the termination language in the defense authorization bill was exactly how much it would have shortened Mr. Bowen’s tenure. An amendment in the Senate version of the bill actually expanded the pot of reconstruction money his agents could examine.

Because the tenure of his office is calculated through a formula involving the amount of reconstruction money in that pot, the crafters of that amendment figured that it would have extended Mr. Bowen’s work until well into 2008 — or longer if Congress granted further extensions.

Mr. Holly agrees that the Senate language would have expanded that pot of money, but he says that in the Republican staff’s interpretation of the formula, Mr. Bowen’s tenure would have run out sometime in 2007 whether the money was added or not.

In any case, as the bill came out of conference, the termination date of Oct. 1, 2007, was inserted, effectively meaning that Mr. Bowen would have to start working on passing his responsibilities to other agencies by early next year.

Capitol Hill staff members said that after House Democratic objections were overridden, Senate conferees agreed to the provision in a bit of horse-trading: the amount of money Mr. Bowen could look at would be expanded, but only with the hard termination date.

Mr. Bowen himself declined to comment on the controversy surrounding his office, saying only that he was already working with the other inspectors general to develop a transition plan in accordance with the defense authorization act. “We will do what the Congress desires,” Mr. Bowen said.
79 2006-11-03 In Baghdad Thursday, American military officials said that they believed Specialist Taie, 41, was alive and being held somewhere in the city. But here in eastern Michigan, where snowflakes dusted his parents’ tiny lawn, the Taies wait for a ransom demand that the military has told them to expect, a family friend said on Thursday.

In the first interview they have granted, his parents described him as a man who, searching for a cause and career, found both in Iraq. Six months ago, his father said, he became an American citizen. Recent photos of Specialist Taie show him shaking hands with military commanders and smiling, a blue-ribboned medal pinned to his chest.

In September, his parents said, he passed up the chance to return to Fort Hood, Tex., with his platoon and volunteered to remain in Baghdad for another half-year.

“He’s not an ordinary soldier,” Mr. Taie said. “He went to help Iraqi people. And for the first time in his life, he was getting recognition.”

How Specialist Taie, the third of five brothers, ended up back in Iraq more than a decade after his family left the country is in some aspects, a familiar immigrant story. But it is also an Arab immigrant’s struggle to fit into a society that, after Sept. 11, 2001, seemed cold and hostile.

His two older brothers came to the United States first because of the hardships under the regime of Saddam Hussein. He arrived in 1987 and went to Boston, his parents said. He soon began training as an airplane mechanic, worked for Spirit Air and eventually received a private pilot’s license, said a family friend who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid unwanted media attention.

“He loved to be a pilot,” said Specialist Taie’s mother, Nawal. “He always wanted to be around airplanes.”

After his parents arrived in the United States — his mother in 1992, his father two years later — Specialist Taie moved here, where he studied flight engineering. But, as he entered his 30s, he was still searching, his mother said, for a fulfilling career and for the right woman.

In 1997, he and a neighbor became involved, flew to Las Vegas and got married. But the woman was Jewish, and her parents were against her marrying a Muslim, friends of the family said. The couple divorced amicably four years later. His former wife, reached by telephone, declined to talk about Specialist Taie and asked that her name not be printed, to avoid any further media attention.

Specialist Taie’s mother made a point of saying that despite the conflicts between Sunni and Shiite Muslims in Iraq, the family has both Sunni and Shiite forebears on both sides. “Mention this, the family is mixed, Shia and Sunni,” she said, pointing a finger at a reporter’s notebook. “Ahmed doesn’t care, Sunni or Shia.”

After the attacks of Sept. 11, Specialist Taie felt his prospects growing darker, his parents said. As an Arab immigrant who was not yet a citizen, he found it hard to get meaningful work, his parents said. In November 2003, he returned to Iraq for the first time, along with his mother. “I was thinking to find a girl for him to marry,” she said.

Indeed, postwar Iraq had drawn back several members of the Taie family. Specialist Taie’s father, an engineer, returned to Iraq in June 2003, to help with reconstruction.

When his parents returned to the United States, in June 2004, the son remained in Baghdad. “He said, ‘I am very comfortable with the people here. I have my friends. People respect me,’ ” Mr. Taie recalled his son as saying.

He had also met Ms. Abdul-Satar.

He returned to Ann Arbor, and in September 2005 he enlisted in the Army. Completing basic and specialized training to become an interpreter in Fort Hood, Tex., he was sent to Iraq last November, a military spokesman in Baghdad said.

Capt. Curtis Belen of the Michigan National Guard, which has acted as a liaison between the Taie family and military officials in Iraq, said Specialist Taie had an exemplary service record. “He is a well-respected soldier,” Captain Belen said. “He is loved by his people.”

This past August, Specialist Taie and his wife took a delayed two-week honeymoon to Egypt, his parents said.

The Taies have never met their Iraqi daughter-in-law, but when this is all over, they say, they will be a family again.

In his tiny living room here, kneading his prayer beads, Mr. Taie said his son is paying a brutal price for the respect he so craved and has, in his family’s view, so inarguably earned. “I want to look him in his eye again,” the father said, throwing open his hands. “I just don’t know how he is surviving.”
80 2006-11-03 Ms. Wagner will be named chief executive of United Artists and Mr. Cruise will be an executive and producer associated with the studio under an unusual arrangement that gives them a minority share of the company. Ultimately Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., which owns United Artists, hopes that investors take a direct stake in both the unit and Mr. Cruise’s career. “The studios and talent don’t trust each other,” Harry E. Sloan, MGM’s chairman and chief executive, said in an interview Thursday. “We need to start a dialogue.”

For MGM, which is owned by private equity firms in partnership with the Comcast Corporationand the Sony Corporation, the deal offers an alliance with a major star on terms more manageable than the huge fees he commanded from Viacom’s Paramount Pictures for expensive films like last May’s “Mission: Impossible III.” It also offers a way to unlock the value of the United Artists name, which carries enormous cachet, but has been attached to only a few films lately.

The deal also offers a fresh twist on recent trends that have seen investors become directly involved with film producers, even as stars seek more creative and financial control over their careers. Established producers like Joel Silver and Ivan Reitman are among those who have made partnerships with outside investors, allowing them to finance films intended for distribution by studios.

Initially, Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner will have authority to produce about four movies a year, for distribution by MGM. Neither Mr. Cruise nor Ms. Wagner put up any capital, Ms. Wagner said. Mr. Cruise may or may not star in the pictures, and will remain free to work as an actor for other studios.

Mr. Sloan and his team have been working to revive MGM as a full-blown movie and television distribution company. Last year, several producers in Hollywood had sought to buy United Artists but were unsuccessful. So far MGM’s recent track record as a distributor of other producers’ movies is unimpressive.

“School for Scoundrels,” which starred Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Heder, brought in only $17.2 million at the domestic box office when it was released in September. The World War I epic “Flyboys” flopped, bringing in only $12.8 million.

Mr. Sloan said MGM was trying to create a new studio model in its dealings with Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner. The company will finance United Artists’ first few movies, with budgets of $40 million to $50 million — relatively modest amounts, by current Hollywood standards — and will pay for the unit’s overhead.

After that, Mr. Sloan expects to approach outside investors to finance United Artists’ movies in partnership with Mr. Cruise, who will share an ownership stake in the operation with Ms. Wagner. If investors are not interested in financing the films, MGM said it would pay for them all.

Those outside investors could be hedge funds, wealthy individuals or investment banks. According to Mr. Sloan, the proposed United Artists financial model will spread risk more equally between the studio, talent and the outside investors than a conventional Hollywood deal.

Mr. Sloan said he expected to announce United Artists’ first movie soon. When asked if outside investors would still be interested if United Artists’ initial movies flopped, he laughed and joked, “We’ll take the model out to investors before the first picture opens.”

Recently, some financial funds have seen disappointing results from their investments in studio films. Legendary Pictures, which has a five-year, $600 million deal with Warner Brothers Entertainment to co-finance and co-produce deals, for instance, was an investor in some of that studio’s more noticeable summer duds, including “Lady in the Water” and the animated “The Ant Bully.”

“The actors are not going to have a cakewalk,” said Harold Vogel, the author of “Entertainment Industry Economics.” “These investors don’t say, ‘Oh, it’s so glamorous to go to a party.’ They aren’t that dumb. Instead they say, ‘You will get your money, but we get ours first.’ ”

Mr. Cruise seems to be hedging his own bets by staying on the market as an actor for hire. Also, films already in development under their Cruise/Wagner Productions moniker can be produced by other studios, although Ms. Wagner said she and Mr. Cruise were in negotiations with Paramount to buy back some of the projects they developed there.

When asked to comment on Mr. Cruise’s new deal, Mr. Redstone said, “I wish Tom and his associates the greatest good fortune in their venture.”

Ms. Wagner said she hoped United Artists would become a home for talent, in keeping with the company’s roots. The studio was originally founded in 1919 by Mr. Chaplin, Ms. Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and D. W. Griffith. In later years, it became associated with MGM, and for decades was controlled by the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, who ultimately engineered the sale to its current owners.

Unlike Mr. Silver and Mr. Reitman, who expect to focus on low-budget thrillers and comedies, United Artists expects to make mainstream films of considerable range, Ms. Wagner said. She added that United Artists’ financial backers would have no creative input; their role would be limited to how money was spent. “We are not looking to make a film that makes people unhappy,” she said.

Of course, that is harder than it seems. Other well-known Hollywood personalities have tried to start talent-friendly studios over the years with limited success. Revolution Studios, to choose one relatively recent example, was started in 2000 by the veteran producer and executive Joe Roth, who said he too wanted to bring actors deeper into the process of creating artful films at a reasonable cost, like the old United Artists. But the deal he cut with Sony to create Revolution was not renewed after a string of disappointments, and he is now going to be a Sony producer.

“I’m still reeling,” said Ms. Wagner of the day’s news. “The ink is not dry on this. If you have a movie, send it our way. We are still figuring this all out.”
81 2006-11-03 Mr. Schumer conceded that the Montana race, where Mr. Burns has been struggling for months, has tightened. But he remained optimistic about his party’s chances, saying the incumbent had never come close to cracking 50 percent in polls.

Working to make certain they do not get surprised in an East Coast race, Senate Democrats also placed a new advertisement in Maryland trying to tie the Republican candidate, Michael J. Steele, to Bush policy on the war in Iraq.

The party, though it believes it has the contest in hand, remains nervous about the potential appeal of Mr. Steele, an African-American, to the state’s large, and usually Democratic-voting, black population. Last week he was endorsed by several well-known black leaders in Prince George’s County, a populous and predominantly black Washington suburb.

The new commercial revisits Mr. Steele’s recent statements of support for the war and notes that his Democratic opponent, Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, opposed the war at the outset. “We need a senator who does what’s right for us, not George Bush,” the advertisement says.

Doug Heye, a spokesman for Mr. Steele, the state’s lieutenant governor, said Democrats were trying to sidestep important local issues like education and economic empowerment. “Ben Cardin is running against George Bush,” Mr. Heye said. “Michael Steele is running for Maryland.”

The political maneuvering came as the parties and candidates made last-minute adjustments to try to cover all their bases. Mr. Bush continued to try to rally voters in heavily Republican areas, and was staying out of New England, Ohio and Pennsylvania, where his low approval ratings may make him a liability in important races.

“We’re focusing his energy on places where he can best turn out the vote for Republican candidates,” a senior administration official told reporters traveling with the president on Air Force One. “These are all races that are close. These are all races that are likely going to come down to turnout. And so that’s the nature of all these visits.”

Mr. Bush has refused to express any of the pessimism that other Republicans have voiced as they face the prospect of losing control of the House and perhaps the Senate as well.

“We’ve been through this before,” Mr. Bush said in Montana, referring to tough races of the past. “We are going win these elections because we understand the values and priorities of the American people.”

But there was some confusion at the White House on Thursday about just which elections were taking place. One spokesman initially told reporters there was no Senate race in Nevada this year, though the incumbent Republican, John Ensign, has a Democratic opponent who should be at least passingly familiar, since he is Jack Carter, the son of former President Jimmy Carter. The White House later acknowledged the mistake.
82 2006-11-03 As Commissioner Bud Selig stood on the field at Japan’s Tokyo Dome in 2004, he spoke excitedly about the importance of continuing to expand Major League Baseball internationally. Selig was not specific, but geographically speaking, he was peeking even farther west.

Eventually, Selig hopes to announce that baseball will hold its season opener in China, perhaps as early as 2008. If baseball officials arrange that, they would be staging the first major league games there a few months before Beijing plays host to the 2008 Olympics.

Bob DuPuy, baseball’s president, said in an e-mail response that the time frame was contingent on a baseball facility in China being completed. The best outcome for baseball would be for the facility to be completed in time for the 2008 opener.

“With the Olympics being held in China in 2008 and with that being currently the last appearance of baseball in the Olympics, we think it is important to showcase the sport as much as possible,” DuPuy said.

DuPuy, who first disclosed the possibility of a season opener in China to Reuters yesterday, called China, which has 1.3 billion people, “a huge, largely untapped resource.” But the Chinese are baseball neophytes, especially since the sport was banned in the country for about 20 years. The Chinese Baseball League has existed only since 2002.
83 2006-11-03 The Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka could fill another spot, and the Yankees are expected to submit a bid for the right to negotiate with him. The posting period during which major league teams can submit bids for him began yesterday and ends Wednesday.

Matsuzaka’s team, the Seibu Lions, has until Nov. 14 to accept the highest offer. If it is accepted, the team that made the bid has a 30-day window to reach a contract agreement with Matsuzaka, who is represented by Scott Boras.

The Mets are expected to make a bid for Matsuzaka as well. The general manager of the Seattle Mariners, Bill Bavasi, said his team would not get involved.

The Yankees still plan to pick up Sheffield’s $13 million option and trade him, despite Sheffield’s public complaints about the idea. Sheffield, who turns 38 this month, wants to play for three more seasons.

JETER WINS GOLD GLOVE Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter won a Gold Glove for the third year in a row yesterday in balloting by American League managers and coaches. The Yankees’ principal owner, George Steinbrenner, said he hoped it would not be the only award Jeter wins.

“I hope he wins M.V.P.,” Steinbrenner said through his publicist, Howard Rubenstein. “He should. He’s a great Yankee and a great leader.”

Jeter’s reputation as a strong fielder irritates his critics, who believe he is overrated defensively. This season, Álex González of Boston committed fewer errors (7) than Jeter (15) and had a better fielding percentage. But González has never won the award. There was only one first-time winner among the A.L. honorees: second baseman Mark Grudzielanek of the Kansas City Royals.

Other winners included first baseman Mark Teixeira of Texas, third baseman Eric Chavez of Oakland, outfielders Torii Hunter of Minnesota, Ichiro Suzuki of Seattle and Vernon Wells of Toronto and two Detroit Tigers: catcher Iván Rodríguez, a 12-time winner, and pitcher Kenny Rogers.

MINAYA SETTING PRIORITIES Mets General Manager Omar Minaya said in a conference call yesterday that he was re-evaluating the team’s priorities. He did not say if one of them would be to re-sign reliever Guillermo Mota, who was suspended for 50 games Wednesday for violating Major League Baseball’s drug policy.

The Mets are unlikely to bring him back, which places a greater emphasis on the late-inning relievers Duaner Sánchez and Aaron Heilman, and on re-signing Chad Bradford. Minaya said Sánchez, who is recovering from a separated shoulder sustained in a taxicab accident in July, was scheduled to start throwing in December.

The Mets do not figure to trade Heilman unless they can fortify their bullpen in other moves. The Mets have been in contact with Rex Gary, Bradford’s agent, but Minaya said he did not think a deal was imminent.

Minaya repeated his desire to re-sign Tom Glavine, saying that he had spoken to Glavine’s agent, Gregg Clifton, but had not begun negotiations. Minaya said he hoped to resolve Glavine’s status by Nov. 20, the Mets’ deadline for exercising their $14 million option. The probable outcome is a one-year deal with an option if Glavine, who has 290 victories, does not reach 300 in 2007.

“We’re just waiting for Tommy to get with his family,” Minaya said. Minaya said he expected to begin talks soon for a contract extension for Manager Willie Randolph and that everyone on the coaching staff was expected to re-sign, except perhaps for the third-base coach, Manny Acta, a candidate for managerial openings in Washington, Texas and Oakland. BEN SHPIGEL (NYT)

top prospects shut down The Mets shut down pitcher Mike Pelfrey after he threw four innings in the Arizona Fall League because he had what Omar Minaya called “regular soreness.” Another pitcher, Philip Humber, was pulled from Arizona with shoulder tendinitis.

“It’s nothing major,” Minaya said of Pelfrey and Humber. “If you get little aches and pains this late in the year, why not shut them down?”
84 2006-11-03 MOSCOW, Nov. 2 — Russia intensified its economic pressure on Georgia on Thursday as the state-controlled gas monopoly, Gazprom, indicated that it would seek to more than double the price it charges for natural gas, beginning in January.

The move to raise the price follows a series of punitive restrictions imposed by Russia on trade with Georgia, as relations between the neighbors deteriorated precipitously in recent months.

The Russian restrictions include bans this year on Georgia’s wine, mineral water and fruit and vegetables, and a suspension last month of air, rail and road transport between the countries. The dispute began when Georgia accused Russians of espionage.

Gazprom’s proposed price — subject to negotiation but unlikely to change significantly — made it clear that Russia did not intend to relax the pressure on Georgia. The price — $230 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas, compared with the current $110 — would be comparable to what Gazprom charges the wealthier nations of Europe. Gazprom has insisted that it will raise prices for former Soviet republics to the same level as Europe, effectively ending subsidized energy to its neighbors. But it has made exceptions.

Gazprom agreed last week to charge Ukraine $135 after negotiations with the new prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, who is viewed as friendlier to Russia than his recent predecessors. Armenia reached an agreement earlier this year to pay at a rate of $110 until 2009, after surrendering control of a pipeline. Among the former Soviet republics, Georgia stands to pay the most for Russian gas.
85 2006-11-03 ALBANY, Nov. 2 — The New York Racing Association, which operates the state’s three thoroughbred racetracks, filed for bankruptcy protection on Thursday, the latest chapter in a troubled recent history.

The racing association has owned the franchise to operate the Aqueduct, Saratoga and Belmont racetracks since 1955, but has been affected by a series of scandals that culminated in the appointment of a federal monitor and the installation of a new management team in 2004. The association’s franchise expires at the end of next year, and two major for-profit bidders with considerable political clout and financial muscle are also vying for the rights.

Of late, the association’s prospects for a comeback have been hampered by a feud with the Pataki administration, which has held up the installation of 4,500 video lottery terminals for Aqueduct that were approved by the Legislature and are seen by the association as a critical source of revenue.

The administration has also been slow to disburse a $30 million loan approved by the Legislature last year. The state and the association have also clashed over who owns the land where the racetracks are located, an issue that will probably be addressed by a bankruptcy court judge.

“It is unfortunate and frankly inexplicable why the State Lottery Division could not work out the details necessary to get the V.L.T. construction under way at Aqueduct,” C. Steven Duncker, chairman of the association’s board of trustees, said in a statement.
86 2006-11-03 Corn prices surged to 10-year highs yesterday as a crop forecast led investment funds to bet on grains after pulling money from underperforming markets such as oil.

Fund buying was tied to forecasts implying that the nation’s corn supply would shrink next year by more than previously estimated. A widely watched analytical firm, Informa Economics, forecast the 2006 corn crop at 10.7 billion bushels, below the Department of Agriculture’s October estimate for 10.9 billion.

“Money is coming out of underperforming sectors like crude oil and coming in to outperforming sectors like grain,” said Victor Lespinasse, a grain analyst at A. G. Edwards.

Corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade rose as much as 6 percent, to their highest since the mid-1990s. The contract for delivery in December closed at $3.44¾ a bushel, up 11¼ cents.
87 2006-11-03 A New Jersey telephone company, Verizon, sought approval yesterday to offer television in 316 communities. The company said its plan would include 2.1 million homes. Verizon hopes to begin offering the service in late December and have it available to 500,000 homes by March. The State Board of Public Utilities has 45 days to act. For $42.99 per month, Verizon proposes offering nearly 200 digital channels, more than 20 high-definition channels and a video library with 3,000 titles.
88 2006-11-03 A sustained surge in hiring in New York City carried employment in the metropolitan area in September to its highest level in that month since 1990, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics said yesterday. The number of jobs in the region rose to 8.44 million, a gain of 75,200 in the past year. That total exceeded the previous September high of 8.41 million, set in 2000. More than two-thirds of the jobs created in the last year were in the city.
89 2006-11-03 The Credit Suisse Group reported yesterday that its third-quarter profit slipped after a decline in equity trading reduced earnings from investment banking.

Net income fell 1.6 percent, to 1.89 billion Swiss francs ($1.52 billion), from 1.92 billion francs in the period a year earlier, Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, said. Revenue was 1 percent lower, at 8.08 billion Swiss francs.

Shares of Credit Suisse, the country’s second-largest banking company after UBS, rose 2.3 percent in Zurich as earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates and its chief executive, Oswald J. Grübel, said the “pipeline of business is strong.”

The bank’s financial results were released two days after UBS reported a 21 percent slump in net income, led by a drop in stock trading. At Credit Suisse, fixed-income trading helped cushion the equity declines.

In an interview yesterday, the chief financial officer, Renato Fassbind, said, “We have a very good outlook for the next few quarters, and we think we are well positioned to grasp these opportunities.” The bank says it expects record profit this year.

Pretax earnings of 758 million Swiss francs surpassed the 659 million franc estimate of analysts. Profit before taxes at the main wealth management unit fell 5 percent, to 684 million francs, missing estimates; earnings at the consumer banking unit rose 7 percent, to 338 million francs. Credit Suisse’s asset management unit posted a 21 percent decrease in profit, to 158 million francs.
90 2006-11-03 WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 (Bloomberg) — A federal judge has barred a memory expert from testifying as a defense witness in the trial of a former White House official facing trial in connection with the disclosure of a C.I.A. agent’s identity.

The White House official, I. Lewis Libby, was Vice President Dick Cheney’s chief of staff. Mr. Libby is charged with perjury and obstruction of justice in an investigation of who disclosed the identity of Valerie Wilson, a former agent of the Central Intelligence Agency.

That disclosure led to an investigation by a special prosecutor into whether the leak violated any laws and whether Ms. Wilson’s maiden name, Valerie Plame, was leaked as part of a campaign to punish her husband, Joseph C. Wilson IV, for his criticism of the White House.

The judge, Reggie Walton, of Federal District Court in Washington, said Mr. Libby’s lawyers did not convince him that testimony from a psychology professor at the University of California would help jurors understand the case.

Mr. Libby’s trial is scheduled to begin in January.
91 2006-11-03 I can verify, from my own reflection, that male Hortons are self-aware. Additionally, my 93-year-old father (who has a memory like an elephant) mirrors my view, and confirms that such intelligence has pertained with respect to our family for generations, without truncation.
92 2006-11-03 George Bush, Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld think you’re stupid. Yes, they do.

They think they can take a mangled quip about President Bush and Iraq by John Kerry — a man who is not even running for office but who, unlike Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney, never ran away from combat service — and get you to vote against all Democrats in this election.

Every time you hear Mr. Bush or Mr. Cheney lash out against Mr. Kerry, I hope you will say to yourself, “They must think I’m stupid.” Because they surely do.

They think that they can get you to overlook all of the Bush team’s real and deadly insults to the U.S. military over the past six years by hyping and exaggerating Mr. Kerry’s mangled gibe at the president.

What could possibly be more injurious and insulting to the U.S. military than to send it into combat in Iraq without enough men — to launch an invasion of a foreign country not by the Powell Doctrine of overwhelming force, but by the Rumsfeld Doctrine of just enough troops to lose? What could be a bigger insult than that?

What could possibly be more injurious and insulting to our men and women in uniform than sending them off to war without the proper equipment, so that some soldiers in the field were left to buy their own body armor and to retrofit their own jeeps with scrap metal so that roadside bombs in Iraq would only maim them for life and not kill them? And what could be more injurious and insulting than Don Rumsfeld’s response to criticism that he sent our troops off in haste and unprepared: Hey, you go to war with the army you’ve got — get over it.

What could possibly be more injurious and insulting to our men and women in uniform than to send them off to war in Iraq without any coherent postwar plan for political reconstruction there, so that the U.S. military has had to assume not only security responsibilities for all of Iraq but the political rebuilding as well? The Bush team has created a veritable library of military histories — from “Cobra II” to “Fiasco” to “State of Denial” — all of which contain the same damning conclusion offered by the very soldiers and officers who fought this war: This administration never had a plan for the morning after, and we’ve been making it up — and paying the price — ever since.
93 2006-11-03 One of the fastest-growing outsourcing services companies, Cognizant Technology Solutions, said quarterly earnings grew 50 percent as customers continued to send work offshore in areas like financial services and health care. Cognizant, which is b...
94 2006-11-03 GURIN--George, November 1, 2006. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father to Carole Moskowitz (Harold) and Neil (Mary). Cherished grandfather of Jill, Andrew, Amanda and Matthew. Loving great-grandfather of Daniel, Alex, Julia, Jessica and Talia. W...
95 2006-11-03 To the Editor:     Re ''Horton Sees an Image'' (editorial, Nov. 2):...
96 2006-11-03 As Commissioner Bud Selig stood on the field at Japan's Tokyo Dome in 2004, he spoke excitedly about the importance of continuing to expand Major League Baseball internationally. Selig was not specific, but geographically speaking, he was peeking ...
97 2006-11-03 MICROSOFT AND LINUX -- Microsoft acknowledged the influence of the Linux operating system by striking an agreement with Novell, a longtime rival, to ensure that Novell's version of Linux can operate together with Windows. [Page C1.]    CRUISE TO H...
98 2006-11-03 A sustained surge in hiring in New York City carried employment in the metropolitan area in September to its highest level in that month since 1990, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics said yesterday. The number of jobs in the region rose to 8....
99 2006-11-03 The Yankees must decide in the next few days whether to exercise their team options on outfielder Gary Sheffield and starters Mike Mussina and Jaret Wright. None of the players is expected to be back with the Yankees at the option-year price.     ...
100 2006-11-04 That's the assessment of Michael Cooper in our Albany bureau, writing about the report by an adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki that there there was a "valid legal basis" to remove State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi from office "but stopped short of a...
101 2006-11-04 Washington Redskins receiver Santana Moss is not expected to play tomorrow against Dallas because of an injured left hamstring. Moss, who was injured in a loss Sunday to the Indianapolis Colts, has more receiving yards (435) than the team’s other four wideouts combined (397).
102 2006-11-04 As Mr. Bush was attempting to shift the election debate to the positive domestic news, however, Vice President Dick Cheney was addressing head-on what polls showed was the Republicans’ greatest political liability: the administration’s determination to follow through on the war regardless of public opinion or election outcomes.

“Full speed ahead,” Mr. Cheney said in an interview with ABC News that was taped for broadcast Sunday, two days before the election.

“It may not be popular with the public,” he continued. “It doesn’t matter in the sense that we have to continue the mission and do what we think is right. And that’s exactly what we’re doing. We’re not running for office.”

Although battle plans always change in times of war, the vice president said, “I think, again, we’ve got the basic strategy right.”

Later, at a campaign stop in Iowa, Mr. Bush addressed the subject of the war, calling the cause “noble and necessary” and accusing the Democrats of “second-guessing” without offering an alternative.

“I’m going to tell you something point-blank,” Mr. Bush said. “If I didn’t think we could win, I’d get our troops out.”

Separately, two former Pentagon advisers who were closely identified with the argument for invasion, Richard N. Perle and Ken Adelman, told Vanity Fair magazine that they would not have supported the invasion if they had known how “incompetently” the administration would manage it. Both have previously criticized the administration’s conduct of the war.

In the ABC News interview, Mr. Cheney declined comment, saying that he had not read the article.

And most Republicans on the campaign trail did their best to focus on the day’s economic news.

The figures showed that the pace of job creation for the month was somewhat lower than anticipated. But the government substantially increased its job growth estimates for the previous two months. Stock prices fell, in part because investors concluded that the Federal Reserve would judge the economy to be so strong that it could not consider reducing interest rates.

Congressional Republicans fanned out to reinforce Mr. Bush’s message, saying that if Democrats won control of Congress they would raise taxes and jeopardize prosperity.

“This is what we have been campaigning on,” said Peter J. Roskam, a Republican state senator in a close race for a Republican-held House seat in the Chicago suburbs.

“Democrats want to nationalize elections and make it all about international affairs and whatnot,” he added. “But when it comes down to making the tax cuts permanent, this is a district that gets it.”

All year, Republicans have been frustrated by their inability to get more credit for what the statistics suggest is a healthier economy, especially when gasoline prices have come down from their peaks.

“The media seems focused on Iraq, Iraq, Iraq,” said Mr. Roskam’s spokesman, Jason Roe.

Mr. Roskam is running against Tammy Duckworth, a Democrat who lost both legs as an Army helicopter pilot in Iraq. On Friday, the National Republican Congressional Committee placed $1.1 million in television advertisements against Ms. Duckworth, beginning a weekend barrage. The advertising purchase was the largest that the House campaign committee made Friday, according to records filed with the Federal Election Commission.

Republicans said they relished the chance to get back to debating tax cuts and the economy. Brian Nick, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said, “For us to be successful on Tuesday, there obviously needs to be other issues than Democrats hitting us with ‘staying the course.’ ”

Democrats have countered by saying that although unemployment has declined, it remains slightly higher than it was when Mr. Bush took office. They say many families are working harder to keep up their quality of life, even as the wealthy benefit from the administration’s policies.

In Midwestern and industrial states hard hit by foreign competition and job losses, Republicans remain on the defensive. In Ohio, where four House seats and one Senate seat are in play, reminding voters of the economy’s strength has become risky for some Republicans. Representative Deborah Pryce, a powerful Republican in a toss-up race, is under fire from Democrats for calling the economy “storybook.”

While Mr. Bush was talking up the economy in Missouri, the Republican Senate candidate in Michigan was portraying the same glass as half empty. “More bad news for Michigan,” the candidate, Mike Bouchard, said in a news release, arguing that his state had failed to keep pace with the broader recovery. Mr. Bouchard sought to blame the Democratic incumbent, Senator Debbie Stabenow, noting that unemployment in the state had risen sharply since she took office.

The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee responded to Mr. Bush’s campaign stop for Mr. Talent with a television commercial attacking him. “Talent voted for tax breaks for companies that send jobs overseas,” the advertisement says. “We have lost over 60,000 manufacturing jobs, and Talent is helping to ship jobs out of the country.”

Mr. Bush’s campaigning has been unusually light for a sitting president, and he heads to his Texas ranch on Saturday night to celebrate the 60th birthday of his wife, Laura Bush. They will return to Washington to watch the election results.
103 2006-11-04 PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Nov. 3 (Reuters) — A judge said Friday that he had ordered a top Haitian police chief arrested on suspicion of conspiring with kidnappers.

Judge Napela Saintil said a warrant for the arrest of the chief, Inspector General Michael Lucius, was now in the hands of a prosecutor because he had ignored a summons.

Mr. Lucius, barred from leaving Haiti, is in charge of units fighting organized crime and is the lead officer in the fight against kidnapping, drugs and gangs. He has denied accusations of having ties to kidnappers.

“I am ready to appear before a judge, but not Napela Saintil because he is biased against me,” he said.

Mr. Lucius has not gone into hiding and travels around Port-au-Prince surrounded by police guards.

Haiti’s police force is riddled with corruption and poorly equipped.

Several suspected kidnappers have said they worked with Mr. Lucius and shared ransom payments with him. Mr. Lucius has been accused of providing weapons in a scheme to use gangsters to dismantle criminal gangs.
104 2006-11-04 The bitterness between the Shiite leaders and the Americans reflects widely divergent views of the government’s responsibilities. The Americans want Mr. Maliki to lead in forging a “national compact,” healing bitter splits between Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds over the division of political and economic power.

The timeline that Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador, set out last week — prompting an acerbic protest from Mr. Maliki — foresaw framework agreements over coming months. Central issues include disbanding the militias that have been responsible for a wave of sectarian killing, the future division of oil revenues, and a new approach to the Baathists, who were the bedrock of the Hussein government, that will strike a fairer balance between holding the worst accountable for their crimes and offering others rehabilitation.

But Mr. Maliki is not well cast for the role of national conciliator, and has shown a growing tendency to revert to type as a stalwart of a Shiite religious party, the Islamic Dawa Party, which had thousands of its followers killed under Mr. Hussein.

Like most other current Shiite leaders, Mr. Maliki spent decades in exile, and lost family members in Mr. Hussein’s gulag. By nature, he is withdrawn and, American officials say, lacks the natural ease, and perhaps the will, to reach out to politicians from other communities, especially Sunnis.

The Americans say that a self-reinforcing dynamic is at play, with the growing sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shiites, responsible for thousands of deaths this year in Baghdad and surrounding areas, causing politicians from both groups to pull back from the vision of a shared life.

Instead, positions have hardened. In the case of Mr. Maliki, who heads what is nominally a “national unity” cabinet, this has meant an increasing tendency to act as the steward of Shiite interests, sometimes so obtrusively that Sunnis, and to a lesser extent Kurds, have accused him of blatant sectarianism.

The issue of greatest concern to the Americans — and to Sunnis — has been Mr. Maliki’s resistance to American pressure for a crackdown on the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia that the Americans say has been in the forefront of death squad attacks on Sunnis. The Shiite cleric who leads the militia, Moktada al-Sadr, controls the largest Shiite bloc in Parliament and backed Mr. Maliki in the contest among Shiite groups to name the new prime minister.

Another Shiite militia, the Badr Organization, is controlled by Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, who is both a powerful rival to Mr. Maliki in Shiite religious politics and another mainstay of the government.

So for Mr. Maliki, American demands for action to disband the militias have revealed in their sharpest form the tensions between his role as national leader and as steward of Shiite interests. Compounding his dilemma, public opinion among Shiites, particularly in Sadr City, the Mahdi Army’s main stronghold, has coalesced around the militiamen, who are seen by many as the only effective protection against Sunni insurgents who have killed thousands of Shiites with their bombings of marketplaces, mosques, weddings, funerals and other public gatherings.

The failure of American troops to stop these bombings is a source of anger among Shiites, who have woven conspiracy theories that depict the Americans as silent partners for the Sunnis. And the rancor finds a favorite target in Mr. Khalilzad, who has become a figure of contempt among some senior Shiites in the government for his efforts to draw the Sunnis into the circle of power in Baghdad. It has become common among Shiite officials to say that the envoy harbors an unease toward Shiites engendered by growing up in a Sunni family in Afghanistan that distrusted Hazaras, Shiite descendants of Genghis Khan.

For months, Mr. Maliki has argued against forcible moves to disband the militias, urging a political solution and pointing to cases in which Mr. Sadr himself has approved, or at least not opposed, raids on death squad leaders whom he has described as renegades from the mainforce Mahdi Army. Publicly, the Americans have backed the prime minister; privately, they say the country cannot wait while sectarian killing rages unabated. The result has been an uneasy, and at times volatile, compromise.

American commanders have picked off some of the most brutal Shiite death squad leaders on a raid-by-raid basis, sometimes with Mr. Maliki’s approval, and sometimes, as in the case of a disputed Sadr City raid last week that failed to capture the wanted man, known as Abu Derar, without it. In one case last month, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, intervened to release another alleged Mahdi Army death squad leader captured in a raid in west Baghdad after Mr. Maliki demanded he be freed, apparently to assuage Mr. Sadr.

American dissatisfaction with the Maliki government goes far beyond the ambivalence over the militias. When the government was sworn in on May 20, Mr. Khalilzad and General Casey said it had six months to take a broad range of political actions that would build public support, and make the war winnable. When President Bush made a six-hour visit to Baghdad in June, he said he had looked Mr. Maliki “in the eye” to determine if America had a reliable partner, and reported that he was convinced the new prime minister met the test.

High among American priorities was the need for effective government after a largely wasted year under Mr. Maliki’s predecessor, Ibrahim al-Jaafari. American officials have told reporters in background briefings in recent weeks that little has changed, with the budgets of many government departments, including the Health Ministry, controlled by officials loyal to Mr. Sadr, being used for what the Americans say amounts to wholesale looting.

In the past week, Mr. Maliki has added a new, potentially incendiary grievance against the Americans. In interviews that preceded a placatory teleconference call with President Bush last weekend, he said the poor security situation across Iraq was the Americans’ fault, and demanded a more rapid transfer of command authority over the war. With apparent unconcern for the war’s growing unpopularity in the United States, he demanded more American money for the buildup of Iraq’s own forces, and for reconstruction of the country’s infrastructure, on top of the $38 billion the Bush administration says it has already spent on civil and military aid to Iraq since the toppling of Mr. Hussein in 2003 and the nearly $400 billion for America’s own deployments.

Mr. Bush responded by dispatching his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, on an urgent trip to Baghdad on Monday, and agreeing to work on ways of accelerating the transfer of authority, especially in regard to the Maliki government’s ability to control the deployment of Iraqi troops.

What the Bush administration’s public comments omitted was any reference to the deep frustration among American commanders at the continuing weakness of many Iraqi Army units, which have been plagued by high levels of indiscipline, absenteeism and desertion. Some American officers say that as many as half of the listed 137,000 Iraqi soldiers are effectively undeployable.

The situation has its keenest effects in Baghdad, where American commanders say the war will ultimately be won or lost. In the stepped-up effort to clear the city of insurgents and death squads, begun in August and acknowledged by American commanders to be faltering, American troops have accounted for two-thirds of the 25,000 deployed, after Iraqi commanders delivered two of the six battalions they promised.

The result, American officers involved in the operation have noted, is that what little security there is in the city — and, ultimately, the survival of the Maliki government itself — relies far more on American than Iraqi troops.
105 2006-11-04 The Apollo Group, a for-profit education company, said yesterday that its chief financial officer had resigned and its top accounting officer was placed on leave during an internal review of stock options.

The chief financial officer, Kenda Gonzales, and the chief accounting officer, Daniel E. Bachus, are among more than 40 executives and directors of American companies who have left or been dismissed after investigations of executive options.

Apollo, which operates a network that includes its nationwide University of Phoenix system, said it would have to restate earnings as a result of “various deficiencies” it discovered in its investigation. It has not determined the amount of those charges or the periods affected.

“I am committed to taking all appropriate steps to correct past problems with our stock option plan, and to reiterate that we will not tolerate impropriety in any area of our operations,” Brian Mueller, president of the Apollo Group, said.

Mr. Mueller said that for now, Apollo would rely on FTI Consulting, which has been assisting the review, to provide an acting finance chief.

The company hopes to complete its investigation by the end of the year, Mr. Mueller said, and has no estimate of the eventual financial effect of the findings.
106 2006-11-04 The fund’s report was prepared by Davis Global Advisors, a consulting firm run by Stephen Davis, who writes a column for The Financial Times. The report takes aim at the share structure. The family trust controls the bulk of the Class B shares, and thus the election of 9 of the 13 directors. Class A shareholders like Morgan Stanley can elect only four of the directors.

Somewhat similar arrangements exist at other newspaper companies, assuring that the Washington Post Company remains in the control of the Graham family, and Dow Jones in the control of the Bancroft family, unless either family decides to give up control. But the report concludes that such a structure puts the interests of the controlling family over those of other investors.

The Davis report also broadens its critique to take on the issue of governance. It contends that the compensation of The Times’s top executives is too high when measured against the company’s performance. (Since the report, Mr. Sulzberger and Michael Golden, the vice chairman, have asked that the board reduce their compensation for 2006 and 2007 by not being awarded stock options.)

It asserts that because the board chairman, Mr. Sulzberger, is a family insider and a Class B shareholder, he is accountable to “Class B controlling owners rather than the shareowner base as a whole.”

In a response to the report, Rhonda L. Brauer, the company’s governance officer, sent a letter to Mr. Elmasry yesterday. The letter stated that neither the board nor management, only the family trust, could change the capital structure. The letter also defended The Times’s governance practices, citing the independence of the board, especially its nominating committee and the presence of a lead independent director.

In September, the board, having received a copy of the report, asked Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz, headed by Martin Lipton, the well-known corporate lawyer and adviser to boards, to assess The Times’s governance practices.

Mr. Lipton conducted a series of interviews with Mr. Sulzberger and other directors and responded with a letter to the board last month, stating that The Times’s share structure was common to many media companies and that shareholders had the option of undertaking a proxy contest.

“Aside from the dual-class structure, in nearly all respects, the company appears to be employing state- of-the-art corporate governance procedures,” the letter said.

According to Catherine J. Mathis, a company spokeswoman, Mr. Lipton was hired to evaluate the board’s governance standards and is not advising the board on how it should respond to Mr. Elmasry.

“Mr. Elmasry has made it clear that his focus on governance was a smokescreen for his true issue, which is the dual-class structure,” Ms. Mathis said. “This structure has been in place before we went public, and the family trustees have given no indication of any desire to change it.”

Mr. Elmasry had a conference call with two Times directors this week: William E. Kennard, the chairman of the nominating committee and a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and Ellen R. Marram, the presiding director and former senior executive at Tropicana and Nabisco, to discuss the Davis report.

In an e-mail message sent to Ms. Mathis after the meeting, Mr. Elmasry described the directors’ response to the report as being “deeply disappointing and ultimately unacceptable.”

Mr. Elmasry declined to comment for this article.

Wednesday is the deadline for investors who want to submit shareholder resolutions for next year’s annual meeting. Mr. Elmasry is now considering several options, according to people who have been briefed on the situation. One would be to file a nonbinding measure calling for the removal of the dual-share structure and the other would be to submit his own slate of Class A directors.

Whatever he decides to do, it is clear that Mr. Elmasry is prepared to make this a more public battle. Morgan Stanley Investment Management has already hired a public relations firm and is expected to become more aggressive in soliciting the support of the other large shareholders, including Bruce S. Sherman, a prominent media investor at Private Capital Management, who was involved in the breakup and sale of Knight Ridder. (The New York Times Company has hired a public relations firm.)

Mr. Elmasry has kept senior executives of Morgan Stanley, including Robert W. Scully, a co-president of the firm, informed about his campaign and Morgan Stanley has not been involved at the corporate level, people involved in the talks said.

The dual structure of The New York Times Company has been in place since before the company went public in 1969 and was intended to protect the newsroom from interfering outside pressures. The structure can be overturned only if six of the eight members of the family trust, including Mr. Sulzberger, decide to repeal it.

“This issue is not going away,” said Charles M. Elson, a governance specialist at the University of Delaware. “I’m of the view that the era of the dual-class stock structure is coming to an end. And a resolution would gain the support of Class A shareholders. But its purely academic — the family will have to decide to declassify.”
107 2006-11-04 The board did not say what caused the accident, and may not do so for months.

The report hinted that the plane stalled, but “we haven’t determined that yet,” said an agency spokesman, Keith Holloway.

The plane appears to have entered the turn at about 700 feet. It is normal to lose some altitude during the maneuver, but the elevation at which the plane struck the building may be consistent with a stall.

The report also said that investigators were still trying to recover additional data from computer chips in two portable global positioning units and a laptop recovered from the wreckage. They did not mention any evidence of pre-crash problems with the plane.

Mr. Lidle had his pilot’s license but was inexperienced. It has not been determined who was actually piloting the Cirrus SR20, which had dual controls.

The board said that completing the turn in the space available would have required banking the wings at an angle of 53 degrees, or even more if the pilots rolled the plane into the turn gently, as is normal practice. At 53 degrees, a person in the plane would have been subject to 1.7 times the normal force of gravity.

One aviation expert, Benjamin A. Berman, who is a former investigator with the board, said an airline passenger would seldom experience a bank of more than 30 degrees, and would not ordinarily feel gravity forces near the figure cited by the board, 1.7 g’s. A turn that steep is “a normal flight-training maneuver,” he said, but added that it is “not something you’d do very often in sightseeing.”

Mr. Berman said pilots who train in mountains are taught to go all the way to one side of a canyon before beginning a U-turn, and to keep the wind in mind.

If Mr. Lidle’s plane had made a U-turn to the right, the wind would have made the turn radius narrower. But it turned left, making the turn 400 feet wider.

The board said that if the men had started the turn from the river’s eastern edge, they would have had 2,100 feet of clearance from the buildings on the east side of Manhattan. Given their starting point, they had only about 1,300 feet.

The Cirrus was flying in a narrow corridor of uncontrolled airspace where many recreational pilots fear to venture.

At the time of the crash, private planes were allowed in the corridor without permission. Since then, the Federal Aviation Administration has banned aircraft from the area, except helicopters and seaplanes, unless they have clearance.

One New York-area pilot, David Maas, said after reading the report that the Cirrus pilot would have had a hard time making such a tight turn. “In a situation like that, it’s very easy to say, with a spreadsheet after the crash, that ‘Oh, you should have been at 53 degrees,’ ” he said.

But typically a pilot would not bank the plane steeply enough at the beginning, and would have to compensate later. “They were probably very close to stalling and worried about it,” Mr. Maas said.
108 2006-11-04 “We felt like George had proved all he could prove on the turf,” O’Brien said. “He’s run against all the best milers. He has nothing to prove by running a mile on the turf again. It’s probably not fair to him, but it is our job to try and expose the horses as much as possible for the breeders.”

Thoroughbred racing may be an old sport steeped in tradition, but it also is a fragile one increasingly prone to what-if situations. One example was in the Preakness Stakes when Bernardini ran alongside the Kentucky Derby winner Barbaro for about 15 seconds.

Barbaro broke his right hind leg in those opening yards and will never race again. He is exceeding expectations, however, in what continues to be a recovery of many months from what is usually a fatal injury. Bernardini not only ended up winning the second leg of the Triple Crown, but he has proved to be a remarkably talented colt in what will also most likely be a brief career.

Although the overwhelming outpouring of support for Barbaro reaffirmed the profound connection people can have with a racehorse, the careful handling of Bernardini is a reminder of how thoroughbreds also remain a valuable commodity.

Sheik Mohammed, who has spent billions of dollars on the sport over the past 25 years, had Bernardini skip the Belmont Stakes in order to have a fresh horse for the summer and fall campaign in an effort to win Horse of the Year. If the plan succeeds, Bernardini will have little left to prove on the racetrack.

“You can’t blame them if they retire him,” said the Hall of Fame trainer Bobby Frankel, who campaigned the 2004 Horse of the Year Ghostzapper. “The economic risk is just too great. The Maktoums have invested a lot of money in the sport, and care about it. But just the insurance alone on the horse to race another year will cost millions of dollars. They can afford it, but a lot of owners cannot. And why gamble?”

Frankel said Frank Stronach, the owner of Ghostzapper, took a great risk by bringing him back as a 5-year-old after his undefeated championship year. Stronach bucked a trend in which top horses are retired prematurely so their owners can cash in, he said, so fans could watch a preternaturally fast horse for a little longer.

Frankel, however, said Stronach, an auto parts magnate, racetrack owner and breeder, did not add additional insurance for Ghostzapper. After his one and only race as a 5-year-old — a smashing victory in the Metropolitan Mile — a fractured bone was discovered in his left hind leg.

So Ghostzapper was sent to the breeding shed where he now commands $150,000 a coupling, which he can perform more than 100 times a year. That number often doubles for sires that are shuttled to countries like Australia to take advantage of the different mating season in the Southern Hemisphere.

Tom Albertrani, the trainer of Bernardini, said he had not been told the sheik’s plan for the colt. He was an assistant trainer to Bill Mott when Cigar won 16 consecutive races from 1994 to ’96 and was twice named horse of the year. Cigar, who was owned by Allen Paulson, competed into his 6-year-old season.

For months, Albertrani has said that Bernardini is as talented as Cigar. He has worked for Sheik Mohammed for the past year and believes he is as much a sportsman as Paulson.

“It does seem that these great horses come along and just when the public gets to know them, they leave the racetrack,” he said. “It’s just the way it is.”
109 2006-11-04 Cars, then, are often the purchase of choice and, because of that, they do not depreciate here as they do in the United States and in Latin America’s other big car markets. Also, it does not hurt that government subsidies and price controls lock gasoline prices at 12 cents a gallon.

“It’s like the U.S. housing market,” said Marc N. Scheinman, professor of marketing at the Lubin School of Business of Pace University. “Where we trade up in houses, the Venezuelans trade up in cars, and it’s like having gold.”

Brazil, the regional giant, sells eight times as many vehicles as Venezuela. Still, the small but lucrative Venezuelan market expects to double its 2004 sales of nearly 135,000 cars, to more than 300,000 this year, according to the Venezuela Automotive Chamber. That is roughly equivalent to the number of cars sold in a week in the United States.

G.M., Ford and Toyota are capturing the largest share of Venezuela’s market, with a joint operation by Hyundai and Mitsubishi, and Fiat and DaimlerChrysler behind them. Besides the American automakers, Toyota and Hyundai-Mitsubishi have assembly plants in Venezuela.

With Argentina posting sales increases similar to Venezuela’s and Mexico attracting billions in auto industry investment, American automakers’ success in the region is a stark contrast to their woes at home.

Ford’s Venezuela sales, for instance, increased 65 percent in September from the year before, and there are waiting lists for some models.

Although sales in the United States — a vehicle market 57 times the size of Venezuela’s — have a much greater effect on the bottom line, carmakers can point to success overseas as evidence that their best days are not necessarily in the past.

“Our global revenue is up and is, in fact, at record levels,” Robert A. Lutz, G.M.’s vice chairman, said in a recent interview in Detroit. That is true in large part because G.M.’s sales are growing 30 percent annually in China, he said.

Yira Villegas, who lives in Caracas, said she purchased a 2005 Mazda Allegro new last year for 35 million bolívars, or $16,279. One year later, private vendors on www.tucarro.com, popular among Venezuelans looking to buy and sell used cars, are offering the same car for a nearly identical average price, 34.4 million bolívars, or $16,000.

“People aren’t necessarily buying cars just to drive,” said Luis Enrique Cárdenas, president of the Venezuela Automotive Chamber. “They’re also buying cars as if it were the investment of a small investor.”

Gustavo Díaz, 34, who was purchasing a Chevrolet Optra at a dealership in Caracas, was giving up on buying a Toyota Yaris after spending five months on the waiting list. “We’d try for an apartment but it’s much easier to buy a car,” he said. “A car is a good investment because it will have more value in little time.” Responding to rising demand, Ford Venezuela has recently increased output of its Fiesta, Ka and F350 models and restarted production of the Explorer, making Venezuela the only country outside the United States that assembles that model.

Over the last two years, Ford has increased its distribution capacity in Venezuela, expanded its work force by 20 percent at its Valencia assembly plant and renovated every dealership in the country.

Rolling more vehicles per day off the assembly line, workers say they feel the pressure to produce more.

“If you’re spending money you don’t want to wait six months to get a car,” said Wilmer Jiménez, who has worked at the plant for 20 years.

Ford has still not been able to satisfy demand for the Fiesta model despite raising its production by 70 percent in April, said Eduardo Serrano, president of Ford Motor of Venezuela.

Despite rapid investments by automakers, production is still about 20 percent behind demand, according to Rafael Carias, vice president of Fadam, an association that represents automobile distributors in Venezuela. “Last year, the market exploded in an unexpected way and it took everyone by surprise,” Mr. Carias said.

The leftist Chávez government is responding by seeking more foreign investment, notably from nontraditional automakers in politically allied countries. Venezuela and the Iranian Automotive Industry Development Company have struck a deal to build an assembly plant to make inexpensive vehicles for the domestic market, while Venezuela plans to build its first auto parts factory with the Hungarian company Ples Rt.

“We need more plants to satisfy the demand,” said Jesusita Ayala, general director of goods and capital at the government’s Ministry of Light Industry and Commerce.

Seeking to reduce Venezuela’s traditional dependence on American markets, Mr. Chávez has signed numerous economic cooperation deals in recent months with countries like Syria, Belarus, Angola and Indonesia. Ms. Ayala said some of the agreements could yield more investments in the auto industry.

But industry experts warn that if history is any indicator, the current boom in Venezuela could be short-lived because the Venezuelan economy’s dependence on crude oil prices makes it volatile. The car market has historically soured when oil prices drop and the government compensates by devaluing the bolívar, making new cars more expensive because, although assembled here, nearly 70 percent of their parts are imported.

The economy is also often subject to political unrest. In 2003, the Venezuelan market sold only 63,000 cars, according to the Venezuela Automotive Chamber, just 21 percent of this year’s projected sales, as the economy suffered in the wake of two months of national strikes and turmoil, including a failed coup against Mr. Chávez in 2002.

“We’re passing through a great period right now, but we’ve also had very bad years,” said Oscar González, president of the Castellana Motors Chevrolet dealership in Caracas.
110 2006-11-04 Hilda van Stockum, an award-winning children’s author and illustrator whose books depicted family life in the Netherlands, Ireland, the United States and Canada, died on Wednesday at her home in Berkhamsted, England. She was 98.

The cause was a stroke, said her son John Tepper Marlin of Manhattan.

Ms. van Stockum won honors from the Newbery Medal committee in 1935 for her first book, “A Day on Skates: The Story of a Dutch Picnic.” Based on her own childhood experiences, the book contained illustrations by Ms. van Stockum and a preface by her aunt, Edna St. Vincent Millay.

Ms. Stockum’s later books, which were written for children from the ages of 7 to 12, reflected the wanderings of her own families. “The Cottage at Bantry Bay” (1938) and two sequels were set in Ireland, where she spent part of her childhood. “The Mitchells” (1945) was the first of three books about a family like the one she and her husband reared; they lived in Washington, then moved to Canada.

In the 1960s she again began setting her books in the Netherlands, writing “The Winged Watchman,” about boys who helped the Dutch resistance during World War II, and “The Borrowed House” (1975), about a Jewish child hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam.

Hilda Gerarda van Stockum was born in Rotterdam in 1908, the daughter of a Dutch naval officer. In addition to her son John, she is survived by her daughters Olga Marlin, who lives in Kenya, and Sheila O’Neill and Elisabeth Paice, who live in Britain; her son Randal Marlin of Ottawa; 18 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren. Her husband of 62 years, Ervin Ross Marlin, died in 1994; a native New Yorker, he had worked for the State Department and the United Nations.

Ms. van Stockum was a painter as well. In 1993 one of her still lifes was chosen to appear on an Irish postage stamp as part of a series honoring contemporary art.
111 2006-11-04 But parts of Missouri have been very good to the Republicans, and Mr. Talent hopes to mobilize that element of the electorate.

Still, Mr. Talent campaigned with the president on Friday only in the most solidly Republican corner of the state, with stops in Springfield and Joplin.

In Springfield, Mr. Bush heaped praise on the first-term senator, citing specific work Mr. Talent had done — saying he had worked to use Missouri farm products to power cars, had introduced a plan for small businesses to afford health insurance for employees, and helped enact laws to curb methamphetamine laboratories.

“If you’re concerned about what meth does to your fellow citizens, send Jim Talent back to the United States Senate,” Mr. Bush said.

He also portrayed Mr. Talent’s re-election as vital to the country’s future, not just Missouri’s, especially with regard to confirming federal judges and keeping taxes low.

“We had over 5,000 in Springfield and 6,000 here,” Mr. Talent said, using generous crowd estimates as he introduced Mr. Bush at the second event, in Joplin. “I’m kind of thinking you may re-elect me to the Senate next Tuesday.”

Meanwhile, Ms. McCaskill is on the equivalent of a whistle-stop tour in a giant RV, shaking hands at a feverish pace. She is focusing much attention on rural areas but is also making her presence felt in her strongholds — here in largely Democratic Kansas City and in St. Louis.

And she, too, plans to capitalize on the popularity of a party star, Senator Barak Obama of Illinois. Mr. Obama is to campaign with her on Sunday.

“We feel really great about this election,” Ms. McCaskill said Thursday in interviews with reporters in Kansas City. “Now it’s about who’s mobilized to come out on Election Day.”

As she swept into a Southern-style buffet at lunchtime on the eastern edge of town, she greeted the diners with big smiles and hugs. She picked up Kala-Hari Washington, 7 months old, and paraded her around while saying: “Hi, how are you? I’m Claire. Everyone vote on Tuesday. This is a big one.”

Earlier on Thursday, Mr. Talent was at his Independence headquarters, not far from Kansas City, with Rudolph W. Giuliani, the popular former mayor of New York. They accused Ms. McCaskill of being soft on terrorism.

When Ms. McCaskill heard about those statements, she responded, “I think that is a desperate rallying cry at the end of this campaign.”

In recent days, Ms. McCaskill has been swift and direct in her rebuttals to new advertisements that accuse her of being a tax cheat and of wanting to coddle illegal immigrants. One such advertisement said that if Ms. McCaskill was elected, “America won’t be America anymore.”

While Ms. McCaskill has been increasingly on the defensive, one issue has helped her, analysts say, and that is her support of stem cell research. A measure on the statewide ballot would guarantee that any stem cell research that is legal under federal law could be performed in Missouri.

Recent polls show that a majority of Missourians support stem cell research, and “there’s some thought that this will help the Democrats,” said Steven S. Smith, a professor of political science at Washington University in St. Louis.

Mr. Talent has come out against the ballot measure at the strong urging of conservative Christians. In the early days of the campaign, he chose not to take a stance.

But there is still one wide-open question that Dr. Smith and others say no poll can predict: who will turn out to vote.

“This race is all about turnout,” said Jennifer E. Duffy, who tracks Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. “It is what it is, the closest race in the country.”
112 2006-11-04 Each of the appeals was brought to the Supreme Court by a federal public defender’s office. The defendant in the first case, from North Carolina, is a 57-year-old retired marine named Victor A. Rita Jr., who was convicted of making false statements in connection with a federal investigation into the sale of kits for making machine guns.

While Mr. Rita’s sentence, 33 months, was within the range provided by the sentencing guidelines, he argued on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that the sentence was unreasonably long, given his poor health and unblemished record of federal service, both as a marine and in two civilian agencies.

But the Fourth Circuit, which is based in Richmond, Va., and includes North Carolina, is one of the federal circuits that have adopted a presumption of reasonableness for sentences within the guidelines range. The appeals court consequently rejected his appeal in a brief unpublished opinion.

In the Supreme Court appeal, Rita v. United States, No. 06-5754, the public defender’s office in Greensboro, N.C., is arguing that, as a practical matter, the presumption of reasonableness has the effect of making the guidelines mandatory once again, contrary to the Supreme Court’s ruling in the Booker case.

In that case, decided in January 2005, the court ruled that the sentencing guidelines were unconstitutional because they gave judges the responsibility to make factual determinations on which defendants have a right to trial by jury. The court then held that the problem could be cured by making the guidelines advisory rather than mandatory, setting up a system that required judges to “consider guidelines ranges” under a general requirement of “reasonableness.”

In accepting Mr. Rita’s appeal, the Supreme Court said it would decide whether it was “consistent with United States v. Booker to accord a presumption of reasonableness to within-guidelines sentences.”

The defendant in the second case the court accepted on Friday is a 21-year-old first offender, Mario Claiborne, who was convicted in Federal District Court in St. Louis of possessing a small quantity of crack cocaine. Mr. Claiborne’s lawyer persuaded the trial judge to impose a sentence of only 15 months, sharply lower than the guidelines range of 37 to 46 months.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, also in St. Louis, overturned the sentence and ordered resentencing, which has not yet taken place. The Eighth Circuit is among the appeals courts that regard deviations from the guidelines as inherently dubious, requiring special justification.

Noting that Mr. Claiborne had received a sentence that was an “extraordinary” 60 percent lower than the low end of the guidelines range, the appeals court said that “an extraordinary reduction must be supported by extraordinary circumstances.”

Mr. Claiborne’s Supreme Court appeal, Claiborne v. United States, No. 06-5618, thus presents the other side of the coin: not whether it is presumptively reasonable to issue a sentence within the guidelines range, but whether it is presumptively unreasonable not to do so.

In accepting the case, the Supreme Court said it would decide whether it was “consistent with United States v. Booker to require that a sentence which constitutes a substantial variance from the guidelines be justified by extraordinary circumstances.”
113 2006-11-04 BAGHDAD, Nov. 3 — John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence, met here with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki on Friday, the second high-level visit by an American official in a week.

The American military, meanwhile, announced the deaths of seven more American troops. All were killed Thursday, three in a roadside bomb in eastern Baghdad and four in the roiling western province of Anbar in sniper and bomb attacks.

Hidden killing continued across the capital, with 83 bodies and a severed human head found in the two days ending Friday. At least nine other Iraqis died in violence on Friday, Reuters reported, including a freelance journalist, a singer, a taxi driver and a gas station employee.

Mr. Negroponte did not make any public comments in Baghdad, but Mr. Maliki’s spokesman, Yaseen Majeed, said that the two “discussed the need for the Iraqi armed forces to have enough numbers and equipment to take charge of the security portfolio.”

Mr. Maliki’s government has recently sought to exert its independence from what it sees as an overbearing American policy of keeping full control over security here. The visit by Mr. Negroponte, who previously served as ambassador to Iraq, was widely seen as an effort to smooth the ruffled feathers of the Bush administration’s Iraqi partners.
114 2006-11-04 But some runners who are rejected by the New York City Marathon said they should be reimbursed.

“It’s kind of obnoxious to me how they do that,” said Mark Frankel, 36, a runner from Wayne, N.J., who did not make the cut this year. “It’s kind of like a marathon tax.”

Frankel has run in six other marathons and said the amenities provided in New York were no better and sometimes worse than those he received elsewhere. “They’re doing something with that money,” he said. “I don’t know what.”

According to Mary Wittenberg, the president of the New York Road Runners, a nonprofit organization that runs the marathon, processing expenses are largely a staffing issue. The marathon has 12 full-time employees who handle the applications and provide customer service after the registration period has closed. The money also pays for technical support, she said.

The London Marathon, one of the five majors, does not charge its lottery entrants until they are selected, although the runners who are denied entry may elect to donate their fees to one of the race’s charities. The Boston Marathon, another major, charges no additional processing fees, and an entry fee comparable to New York’s — $97 for the 2007 race — despite a registration process that may be more labor intensive because the qualifying time of every entrant must be verified.

The Marine Corps Marathon in Washington, which was held last weekend, used a lottery until two years ago, when it switched to a first-come method. Entry was free, and runners paid a registration fee after acceptance.

Wittenberg said the New York race’s fee structure was an old method that had endured.

“We could easily drop that fee and raise the entry fee,” she said. “But this works fine. I don’t remember ever receiving a complaint.”

Wittenberg said fees, including $15 for a shuttle to the starting area on race day, covered about half of the marathon’s $15 million to $18 million budget, with the rest covered by sponsors and advertisers.

“It’s a good reality check for people,” she said about the fee. “They’re willing to pay just for the chance to get in.”

Aubrey Blanda, 41, a lawyer from Glen Ridge, N.J., found out how expensive running could be when she organized a 5-kilometer race in Montclair, N.J.

“You have crowd-control issues, you have water to provide, transportation to arrange,” she said. “Now multiply that through all the boroughs of New York City, and entry fees just aren’t going to cover all the costs.”

Blanda said the fee was simply part of doing business. “Everything in New York is expensive,” she said. “A cab ride costs more.”
115 2006-11-04 Leonard P. Pepkowitz, a chemist involved in early nuclear research who advised the Atomic Energy Commission on the materials necessary for safely generating commercial power, died on Oct. 19 in Amherst, N.Y. He was 91.

The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.

Dr. Pepkowitz began his career as a biochemist studying plant physiology, but shifted subjects to join the Manhattan Project in 1944, which was already on its way toward producing the nation’s first atomic weapon.

For the project, he served the next two years as a group leader in analytical chemistry at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico.

Following the war, he continued his work in radiochemistry for General Electric in Schenectady, N.Y., and helped refine the G.E. Betatron, an early particle accelerator used to produce X-rays for nuclear research. From 1947 to 1953, Dr. Pepkowitz was head of the general analytical section at G.E.’s Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in Niskayuna, N.Y., where he worked on developing materials to cool nuclear reactors.

He held other research positions in the nuclear materials industry before joining the faculty of Erie Community College in Buffalo in 1971. At Erie, Dr. Pepkowitz taught chemistry and science, and was named a professor in 1975. He retired in 1987.
116 2006-11-04 Mrs. Clinton was campaigning just as aggressively, rallying supporters outside Buffalo and Binghamton, where she was the star attraction at a rally that drew 300 or so Democratic stalwarts and union members.

While several candidates spoke, it was clearly Mr. Spitzer and Mrs. Clinton who produced the most enthusiastic reception of the crowd. Mrs. Clinton spoke largely about the need for change in Washington and in Albany and about the need to elect Democratic candidates.

“We’re not going to change if the Republicans stay in charge,” Mrs. Clinton said, to huge applause. “I know there are a lot of Republicans and independents here in Broome County. Please talk to everybody. The problems America faces are not Republican or Democratic problems; they are American problems.”

At one point after the rally, the candidates were asked by reporters whether they would advise voters to support State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi at the polls on Tuesday in light of the scandal involving his use of a state employee to chauffeur his wife.

The candidates looked at one another without uttering a word for a few seconds. Finally, Mr. Spitzer launched into a lengthy response about why people should vote for Michael A. Arcuri, the Democrat running for Congress locally.

Although Mr. Spitzer is leading by more than 40 percentage points in most polls in the governor’s race, his Republican opponent, John Faso, seemed undaunted as he campaigned on Thursday night among commuters in Hicksville, on Long Island. As the rush-hour crowd shuffled down concrete steps from the train platform, he gamely hustled from stairway to stairway, trying to give a flier and a handshake to anyone who would oblige.

In a brief interview over a slice of pizza as he made his way to the rally with the governor, he acknowledged that it was a difficult moment for Republicans in the state.

“It’s pretty clear it is not as coherent and consistent an effort as it has been in the past, and that is definitely a disadvantage,” Mr. Faso said. But he quickly noted that it was not worth dwelling on, since he could do little about it.

Striking the main Republican theme of the last week of the campaign, he called for Mr. Hevesi to resign as state comptroller, and accused the Democratic Party of maneuvering to maintain a hold on that position.

“They are just playing a cynical political game to pull this compromised candidate across the finish line in the expectation that they will then put in someone of their choosing in the next four years,” Mr. Faso said.

Mr. Hevesi’s Republican opponent, J. Christopher Callaghan, has emerged as something of bright star in the Republican field. He showed up for the Nassau rally in a large charter bus emblazoned with his name and Tax Less Express, as he is calling his tour.

However, on a bus that can typically seat 60, he only had 6 people traveling with him as he made his way up to Binghamton late last night after two events on Long Island. It is a reflection of just how quickly he went from total obscurity to contender and how he is still operating largely on a shoestring budget.

Other Democrats have done their best to steer clear of Mr. Hevesi, going so far as to disinvite him from the party’s election night celebration at the Sheraton New York in Manhattan. And the comptroller was not present during the major campaign rallies yesterday.

As the first rally outside Buffalo, in Depew, Mr. Spitzer and Senator Clinton studiously avoided saying anything too specific on the Hevesi matter. In fact, both candidates barely even talked about their own opponents. When Mr. Spitzer did mention Mr. Faso, it was only in the context of the broader midterm elections.

“There are some close House of Representatives races in New York, close races across this nation,” he said. “Send a message — we have to take back the Congress. It is a way we can take back the course of this nation right away. We cannot afford to wait until 2008.”
117 2006-11-04 What are your chances of staying healthy for the next 12 months? Care to place a bet?     Those are the questions for many of the tens of millions of working Americans now engaged in the annual health-benefits enrollment process and who for the fi...
118 2006-11-05 The author answers readers' comments with a strenuous defense of the politics-free classroom....
119 2006-11-05 "THE MOST IMPORTANT THING when you go to college," Ace Kendall declared, "the single most important thing"- he paused for effect -"is never, ever to join a fraternity."

I shifted in my seat. Ace's assertions were making me uncomfortable. They tended to do that. "Yeah, well, easy for you to say. They don't have fraternities where you go. At Dartmouth, that's all there is."

"Hey, man, go hiking. Write a poem. Plant a tree. There're all kinds of things to do without wasting your time drunk in some smelly frat-house basement." When Ace smiled, he looked like a devil, only a blond one.

"Ace, what are you talking about? You're drunk now. You like being drunk."

"True, but this isn't a fraternity. This is Ye Nob Hill Inn." Indeed it was. The jukebox, with its great forties jazz sides, was blasting away. Jan the bartendress was shaking up drinks. The electric Ballantine beer sign was making its bouncy arcs of color on the wall. Having all recently turned eighteen, my three best high school friends and I were ensconced in a booth, drinking beer and smoking cigarettes.

"And," Ace went on, "I'm with friends I chose. Guys I came to know naturally, over four years at Roslyn High. Unlike in a fraternity, where you have to like whoever they pledge, whether you really do or not."
120 2006-11-05 New energy and optimism infuse the Danish capital....
121 2006-11-05 WASHINGTON, Nov. 4 — In the wake of accusations by a former male escort that the Rev. Ted Haggard had a three-year sexual relationship with him, an independent oversight board at Mr. Haggard’s New Life Church on Saturday found that he had “committed sexually immoral conduct” and dismissed him as senior pastor.

Over the last few days, Mr. Haggard’s career as the founder of the 14,000-member New Life megachurch in Colorado Springs and as leader of the National Association of Evangelicals has crumbled under the weight of the accusations and his explanations. He initially denied knowing the former escort, Michael Jones, 49, of Denver. By Friday, Mr. Haggard revised his account and said he had gotten a massage from Mr. Jones and bought methamphetamine from him. Mr. Jones has denied selling drugs. Mr. Haggard said he never used the drugs. He has publicly denied any sexual relationship.

Nonetheless, he resigned on Thursday as president of the evangelical association and stepped down temporarily as the senior pastor of New Life until its Overseer Board, an independent panel made up of four pastors from other churches, completed an investigation.

In a one-page statement issued Saturday afternoon, the board said, “Our investigation and Pastor Haggard’s public statements have proven without a doubt that he has committed sexually immoral conduct.”

The statement, which was made available by the church’s lawyer, L. Martin Nussbaum, did not elaborate on the nature of the immoral conduct, and it did not cite specific statements Mr. Haggard made. The statement also suggested that the board did not speak to Mr. Jones, but Mr. Nussbaum could not be reached for further clarification.
122 2006-11-05 The Central Intelligence Agency and the Justice Department have told a federal court that permitting lawyers access to high-level Qaeda suspects without tighter secrecy procedures could damage national security by revealing harsh “alternative interrogation methods” used in secret C.I.A. prisons overseas.

But lawyers for the suspects say the government’s insistence on secrecy is an effort to “conceal illegal conduct,” including the torture of the 14 accused Qaeda suspects who were moved from C.I.A. custody to the military’s detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, in September.

The legal battle is taking shape in the case of a legal petition filed in United States District Court in Washington on behalf of Majid Khan, a 26-year-old Pakistani man who spent five years living in the United States. Intelligence officials have accused Mr. Khan of working with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the chief planner of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, to research how to blow up gasoline stations and poison reservoirs in the United States. Mr. Khan’s lawyers and family deny the accusations and assert that if he confessed to such crimes, he did so falsely under harsh interrogation tactics that amounted to torture.

The dispute underscores the complications of the Bush administration’s decision two months ago to acknowledge that the 14 terrorism suspects were held in secret for years.

Mr. Khan’s petition may also test a provision of the Military Commissions Act, signed by President Bush last month, which bars accused “enemy combatants” like Mr. Khan from challenging their imprisonment using habeas corpus petitions filed in United States courts.
123 2006-11-05 Jane Hodgson, a prominent abortion rights advocate who in a highly publicized test case in 1970 became the only doctor in the United States to be convicted of illegally performing an abortion in a hospital, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Rochester, Minn. She was 91.

Dr. Hodgson’s death was confirmed by her family.

Until January 1973, when the Supreme Court handed down its landmark decision in Roe v. Wade, abortion was illegal in most states. Among them was Minnesota, where Dr. Hodgson had a busy practice as an obstetrician and gynecologist.

In April 1970, Dr. Hodgson agreed to perform an abortion in order to challenge Minnesota law. At the time, abortion was permitted in the state only to save the woman’s life.

The patient, a married mother of three, had contracted German measles early in her fourth pregnancy. Though the woman’s life was not in danger, the disease carried a high risk for birth defects. Dr. Hodgson performed the abortion and was arrested shortly afterward. Convicted in November 1970, she was sentenced to 30 days in jail and a year’s probation.

Dr. Hodgson’s sentence was suspended pending appeal; after the Roe decision, her conviction was overturned. She served no jail time.

In later years, Dr. Hodgson remained a public champion of abortion rights, speaking widely on the subject and founding several reproductive health care clinics. She also lent her name to several abortion-related lawsuits, notably Hodgson v. Minnesota, which challenged a state law requiring both parents to be notified before a minor could have an abortion.
124 2006-11-05 Even the higher numbers are not startling as percentages of the entire House. Republicans did indeed build a strong protective structure, and much of it is expected to hold. But the chances of Democrats’ gaining the 15 additional seats they need to take the House — at the least — have grown sharply, and some optimistic Democrats are daring to dream of taking the Senate, too.

There is the matter of money, and the Republican Party’s customary advantage in fund-raising. The latest figures show they have once again bested Democrats. But Democrats have narrowed the gap compared with recent Congressional elections, largely because their Senate committee raised more than its Republican counterpart.

Another curiosity this year: Republicans haven’t been able to take full advantage of their fund-raising wealth because, victims of their own past success, they have so many seats to protect. Democrats have many fewer seats to defend, which lets them target their spending in opposition territory.

And to add a few more articles of faith now in doubt: voters were thought not to trust Democrats to defend the country; Democrats were considered chronically allergic to nominating centrist candidates; and the White House’s political wizard, Karl Rove, could commit no strategic wrong.

Some of them may hold up, as might another tenet — that the party in the White House loses Congressional seats in off-years. But what about all those conventional wisdoms? Were they wrong? Misunderstood? Were those who bought into them naïve, biased?

Political analysts say that some of the popular theories were oversimplified, some exaggerated, some tenuous, but that the predominant ones were accurate — once. Political theories hold as long as the circumstances underlying them hold. When circumstances change and the theories do not — welcome, it would seem, to campaign 2006.

“All politics is local, except when it isn’t,” said John Samples, an analyst with the Cato Institute. “National waves are unusual, but they do exist.”

They come about once every decade or two, the last time in 1994 when Republicans took Congress handily, capitalizing on public disaffection over the economy, the Clinton administration’s health care proposal and a controversy over gays in the military. Democrats had their turn in 1974, when the Watergate scandal forced Richard M. Nixon to resign.

This time it is the war in Iraq. “Iraq cost Bush 5, 6 percent of the vote in ’04,” Mr. Samples said. “It wasn’t noticed closely because he won anyway. But it has been a festering problem and now it is nationalizing the race.”

The seeds of today’s public discontent may well have taken root two years ago even as another piece of conventional wisdom — that the election was all about values — took hold. According to an Edison/Mitofsky survey of voters exiting the polls two years ago, 22 percent of those interviewed cited values as the issue that mattered most. But as The Economist noted recently, 15 percent cited Iraq, 19 percent cited terrorism — 34 percent combined.

Now Democrats are running against the war and the White House. The battle for United States Senate in New Jersey, between Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat, and Thomas H. Kean Jr., Republican, is a study in warring strategies. Mr. Menendez portrays his opponent as a Bush acolyte, while Mr. Kean characterizes Mr. Menendez as an active player in classically corrupt New Jersey politics.

In a Democratic ad against Representative Christopher Shays, a moderate Republican from Connecticut, disapproving men and women shake their heads as they invoke the president and the war over and over again.

There are other factors that could lead to change. Some weak candidates emerged from primaries, and some incumbents got into political trouble — among them Representative Bob Ney of Ohio and Tom DeLay of Texas, the former House leader, both Republicans shadowed by their links to Jack Abramoff, the convicted lobbyist. Democrats will most likely succeed them. Some candidates were hurt by their connections to the Congressional page mess or personal scandals, and in the Florida Senate race, the Republican candidate, Representative Katherine Harris, has been running a problem-plagued campaign from its inception.

“Some of it is just bad luck,” said Amy Walter, who analyzes Congressional races for the Cook report. She also cited the flipside of long-term success in strong Republican districts represented by loyal elected officials. “As the party’s fortunes started to fall,” she said, “there was no way for these candidates to distance themselves from their party.”

Gerrymandering has a flip side, too. To carve out the largest number of partisan districts, officials run the risk of spreading their loyal voters too thin. G. Terry Madonna, who runs the Keystone Poll at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, said that Pennsylvania Republicans who controlled the last round of redistricting “got greedy” — creating some districts with favorable balances too small to survive a wave of discontent.

Gerrymandering is not always effective anyway, says Bruce Cain, an expert on redistricting who heads the University of California’s Washington Center. “There were people exaggerating the effects of redistricting, largely because they wanted redistricting reform,” he said. And no redistricting plan can accurately anticipate demographic shifts that change a district’s makeup, or whether voters will change their minds.

“It’s never exactly static,” said Mr. Cain. “People shift from being independent to moderate or back to independent. Redistricting is good only as long as preferences are stable.”

Maybe that’s why both parties are already talking about 2008. Republicans are saying any Democrats who might sweep into office Tuesday will, as freshmen, be vulnerable to defeat in just two years. And Democrats are saying hold on — if they run a strong presidential candidate in two years the party could be just fine. It could be in power for a decade. Maybe two.

Ah, politics. How better to start the next election cycle than with two more pieces of conventional wisdom?
125 2006-11-05 The stock market gave up ground last week as oil prices rose and government reports suggested that the economy remained relatively strong.

Those reports — one on Friday, for example, that said that unemployment in October had fallen to a five-year low of 4.4 percent — set off speculation that the Federal Reserve would delay cutting short-term interest rates for months to come.

Wal-Mart, which posted disappointing sales in October, lost 6.3 percent for the week while Verizon, which said it was losing local phone business to cable competitors, dropped 5.5 percent. Those were the two worst weekly performances in the Dow Jones industrial average. Microsoft climbed 1.3 percent and Exxon Mobil rose 1 percent, putting them at the top of the weekly list for the Dow.

For the week, the Dow fell 104.22 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 11,986.04. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 13.04 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 1,364.30. The Nasdaq composite index lost 19.83 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 2.330.79.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.72 percent from 4.67 percent the previous week.
126 2006-11-05 Buried under a mountain of Halloween candy brought home by the children or left unclaimed by others’ trick-or-treaters? It’s no wonder: Americans, having rediscovered their sweet teeth, are on a new sugar binge and candy makers are raking it in again.

After dipping for several years beginning in 2000 — a result, perhaps, of earnest new millennium resolutions? — confectionery sales are climbing.

Total sales volume grew 4.6 percent last year, to just under 6.5 billion pounds of chocolates, granola bars, licorice whips and gum, though that is still below levels in the late 1990’s, when Americans bought nearly 7 billion pounds.

But the value of candy sales in the United States last year, $16.9 billion, was a record, by far.

Even with the country’s growing population, which was estimated to have surpassed 300 million last month, per capita consumption and spending on sweets are climbing.

Good news in Hershey, Pa., perhaps, but not so welcome among health professionals battling the nation’s obesity and diabetes problems.
127 2006-11-05 Aggressively milking the fame they acquire through their irrepressible urge to dress up and be photographed, they are spinning off businesses that may one day provide nest eggs for the time an inherited fortune runs dry or a Palm Beach marriage goes down in flames, or simply as a means of personal fulfillment.

“The idea is to turn this all into something,” said Ms. Beracasa, who has a bombastic beauty reminiscent of Rita Hayworth and a platinum pedigree (her late stepfather was Randolph A. Hearst, and her father, Alfredo Beracasa, is a banking scion). “You get to a point where you’ve created a brand, and you can branch out from there.”

The gold standard for the self-branding socialite is Tory Burch, 40, who developed a line of sportswear and accessories inspired by her Main Line-meets-Southampton life into a mini empire, now with five stores, in just over two years. And this despite the collapse of her marriage to Christopher Burch, a venture capitalist who helped finance her label initially.

“The model that everyone points to is Tory Burch,” said Marshall Heyman, a senior editor for W magazine. “Tory was on ‘Oprah’ and that was a huge thing. Now everyone wants to be on ‘Oprah.’ ”

Other players in the game include Celerie Kemble, an interior designer who married a money manager in a socialite-studded wedding in Palm Beach in 2005, and is building a namesake line of furniture; Lucy Sykes, a former fashion editor whose Lucy Sykes New York collection is sold at Barneys and Saks Fifth Avenue; and Nicole Young, a former limelight-loving publicist for clients like Jacob the Jeweler whose line of dresses are sold at Intermix and other stores.

“All my clients would send me clothes and say, ‘Wear this when you are out. It’s the best kind of publicity,’ ” Ms. Young said. “People for all these years have been capitalizing on my visibility for their own gain. Why shouldn’t I be able to capitalize on it?”

Ms. Mortimer, whose blond curls and patrician looks have made her a darling of designers and the fashion press, recently agreed to create a line of handbags for the Japanese accessories brand Samantha Thavasa. Like Ms. Burch, she created a logo out of her initials. The “Samantha Thavasa by Tinsley Mortimer” line will be introduced at a new boutique on Madison Avenue on Friday.

Ms. Mortimer is well aware that her appearance — not just her beauty but her signature hairstyle and taste in clothes — is key to her appeal to society photographers, a kind of brand in itself. Invited to a dinner by Valentino not long ago, she awaited a house call from her hairstylist in her apartment. “About two years ago I started curling my hair and wearing it pinned to the side,” she said. “I became associated with that and with a certain kind of overly girly style: baby-doll dresses, pouf skirts and Mary Janes. Right now my hair is straight. I have to get it curled so I can leave the house.”

A new Web site perfectly captures the era of the self-branding socialite: famegame.com, which is dedicated to charting the ups and down of rich, partygoing young women (and a few men) as if they were listings on the New York Stock Exchange. Like a Bloomberg machine, the site generates charts for social figures’ V.I.P. status (a ratio of pictures per party). There is a moving “ticker” of names scrolling across the home page with upticks or downticks in status (Tory Burch, plus 29; Aerin Lauder, plus 13; Euan Rellie, plus 8).

“We know a lot of people depend on their social appearances for what they do or what they sell; it’s a business,” said José Serrano, a founder of the site, who used to trade United States bonds and currency for the Federal Reserve in New York.

This is not the first time high-society women have capitalized on their taste and demi-celebrity to put their names on clothing and other products. Lilly Pulitzer, Diane Von Furstenberg and Carolina Herrera all crossed over from the gala circuit to the boutique.

But never have so many women — inspired, maybe, by the entrepreneurial spirit of the age or their mothers’ feminist mantras — been so focused on leveraging social exposure for commercial gain. “The girls today are more aggressive,” said Catherine Saxton, a New York publicist, citing their willingness to hop onto the red carpet and preen for photographers. Tracy Paul, another publicist, for clients like the fashion label Arden B., said that this year was the first she noticed socialites requesting that the bills from their hairstylists, makeup artists and car services be paid by the company sponsoring an event that they are asked to act as a host for or attend.

“All the rules of society are being broken,” said David Patrick Columbia of newyorksocialdiary.com, a Web site devoted to covering the privileged set.

The aggressiveness is partly a reflection of the high stakes of today’s social environment, where virtually anyone who can slip into a sample size and charm her way through a party can earn the not-always-coveted title of socialite. “It used to be that the old guard would hand-pick the next crop of girls that would come up,” said Coralie Charriol, vice president and art director for her father’s fine-jewelry and watch company and a chairwoman of some of the city’s most popular charity galas. “Today you go out a few times and have your picture taken and you become a society girl.”

SOME hire publicists to help decide which events to attend. Although using a personal publicist to advance one’s social rank is not exactly new — Babe Paley is believed to have had one — publicity agents have become ubiquitous. Although having a publicist was once looked down upon as the mark of a true social climber, today’s socialites are able to avoid the stigma by hiring the publicist to promote their businesses. If their personal profile ascends in the process, so be it.

Ms. Beracasa persuaded her boss at Circa, the estate jewelry company where she works, to hire the publicist Nadine Johnson, whose clients have included IMG Models and Larry Gagosian. “There isn’t much I do without asking for Nadine’s advice,” Ms. Beracasa said. That includes drawing up the guest list for parties, like one she gave over Labor Day weekend in Bridgehampton with Chris Del Gatto, the chief executive of Circa, at which she dressed as a glamorous acrobat.

Ms. Beracasa, 30, has stock in Circa, which Mr. Del Gatto said he hoped to take public in a couple of years. He said that as the company positions itself as a luxury brand, “it’s important to have someone like Fabiola who is representative of our clients, someone who is international, very smart and may have inherited or have jewelry that they no longer use.”

In fact, Ms. Beracasa first came to the company as a client, seeking to unload a Rolex watch. (Circa buys from the public and sells to private clients, unlike other estate jewelry companies, which do the opposite.)

Given her background, why does she bother to work? “Life can be very vapid if you have everything,” she said. In her early 20s she may have been content to travel and shop full time, but that gets old. “I think a grown-up can understand you need to accomplish things in life to feel good about yourself,” she said.

“I see myself building an empire,” she said, emphasizing that she hopes always to work with Circa in some capacity. And though it’s unclear exactly how one builds an empire out of tweaking the image of an estate jewelry company, that doesn’t seem to matter at this point, when there is still an endless round of parties to dress up for. Some skeptical observers of high society doubt the seriousness of today’s self-branding players. Zani Gugelmann, an oft-photographed jewelry designer of Filigrana by Zani, said that women who go out nightly and say it is to promote their businesses are a bit disingenuous. “People can say it is work-based,” she said, “but many times that’s just an excuse.”

Mr. Columbia doubts that women who are truly privileged really understand the demands of the workplace. “Rich girls find ways of getting someone to do everything for them,” he said.

After the Halloween party at Bungalow 8 began losing steam, Ms. Beracasa, Ms. Mortimer and their pals moved on to Scores West Side, the strip club, for a party given by two nightclub owners. When someone brought out a digital camera, Ms. Beracasa struck a few more poses, vamping it up.
128 2006-11-05 If you press the “Canteen” button on the entry phone beside the boys’ entrance to Rochelle School, a 19th-century London elementary school transformed into a warren of studios for artists, designers and stylists, you’ll discover the city’s best-kept lunch secret. Located in a converted cycle shed, Rochelle Canteen opened in January. Its owners, Margot Henderson and Melanie Arnold, were already running a catering business from the space with the restaurant St. John’s (Margot is married to its chef, Fergus Henderson), and started serving lunch to their studio mates. Rochelle’s occupants, like the fashion designers Luella Bartley and Giles Deacon, were soon joined by East End locals, including the artist Rachel Whiteread and the designer Jasper Morrison. The menu is small, with three or four choices for each course, and the food is, as Arnold puts it, “simple, very seasonal and delicious,” with dishes like lamb stew or grilled sardines. Can nose-to-tail fashion be far behind? Rochelle Canteen, Arnold Circus, London E2; 011-44-20-7729-5677.
129 2006-11-05 Anne Marie McCaughey, a daughter of Maureen and Francis X. McCaughey of Stewart Manor, N.Y., and Roger Eric Sommerfield, the son of Sandra and Robert Sommerfield of Eastchester, N.Y., were married yesterday at the chapel on the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University.

Mrs. Sommerfield, 28, is a senior manager of trade support at Morgan Stanley in Brooklyn Heights. She graduated from Fordham. Her father is the president of New World Lease Funding, a company in Lake Success, N.Y., that provides financing to the vehicle leasing industry. Her mother is retired as the secretary to the principal at Pasadena Elementary School in Plainview, N.Y.

Mr. Sommerfield, also 28, is an architect with Kostow Greenwood Architects in Manhattan. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University. His mother is retired as a teacher at Public School 105 in the Bronx. His father is a real estate lawyer in Scarsdale, N.Y.
130 2006-11-05 The famous old quip about the weather — everyone talks about it but nobody does anything about it — is not as true as it once was. Alarmed by the threat of global warming, lots of people are actively trying to change human behaviors in order to change the weather.

Even economists are getting into the weather business. Olivier Deschênes of the University of California at Santa Barbara and Michael Greenstone of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have written a pair of papers that assess some effects of climate change. In the first, they use long-run climatological models — year-by-year temperature and precipitation predictions from 2070 to 2099 — to examine the future of agriculture in the United States. Their findings? The expected rises in temperature and precipitation would actually increase annual agricultural production, and therefore agricultural profits, by about 4 percent, or $1.3 billion. This hardly fulfills the doomsday fears conjured by most conversations about global warming.

For other economists, meanwhile, the weather itself has proved useful in measuring wholly unrelated human behaviors. From an economist’s perspective, the great thing about the weather is that there is nothing humans can do to affect it (at least until recently).

Contrast this with social changes that people enact: a new set of laws, for instance. Very often, new laws come about when there is a perception that a big social problem — think violent crime or corporate fraud — is growing worse. After a while, and after the laws have been enacted, the problem diminishes. So did the new laws fix the problem, or would it have improved on its own? Politicians will surely claim that it was their laws that fixed the problem, but it’s hard to know for sure.

The weather, however, is different; the beauty of weather is that it does its own thing, and whether the weather is good or bad, you can be pretty sure that it didn’t come about in response to some human desire to fix a problem. Weather is a pure shock to the system, which means that it is a valuable tool to help economists make sense of the world.

Consider 19th-century Bavaria. The problem there was rain — too much of it. As Halvor Mehlum, Edward Miguel and Ragnar Torvik explained in a recent paper, excessive rain damaged the rye crop by interfering with the planting and the harvest. Using a historical rainfall database from the United Nations, they found that the price of rye was significantly higher in rainy years, and since rye was a major staple of the Bavarian diet, food prices across the board were considerably higher in those years, too. This was a big problem, since a poor family at the time would have been likely to spend as much as 80 percent of its money on food. The economists went looking for other effects of this weather shock. It turns out that Bavaria kept remarkably comprehensive crime statistics — the most meticulous in all of Germany — and when laid out one atop the other, there was a startlingly robust correlation between the amount of rain, the price of rye and the rate of property crime: they rose and fell together in lockstep. Rain raised food prices, and those prices, in turn, led hungry families to steal in order to feed themselves.
131 2006-11-05 I do not follow contemporary politics. I live in a vacuum. I don’t read books. I don’t read newspapers. I do not own a TV set or a cellphone or a computer. I spend my evenings alone, usually lying in the dark talking to women who aren’t in the room with me.

You mean they’re on the phone?

No. They’re metaphysical. I brood. I brood about former women in my life. Potential future women in my life. I ignore the culture. I don’t want it to impede, impair, interdict, suppress or subsume my imagination with extraneous influences.

Is this an act? Are you trying to pass yourself off as the sort of isolated sociopath who is a stock character in crime fiction?

No. I am not acting. There are times when I think it isn’t quite kosher to be lying in the dark talking to women who aren’t in the room with me. And it turns into a certain kind of hauntedness and loneliness. But by and large, I dig it.

Do you think of yourself as a novelist or as a crime writer?

I am a master of fiction. I am also the greatest crime writer who ever lived. I am to the crime novel in specific what Tolstoy is to the Russian novel and what Beethoven is to music.

How do you know since you say you don’t read other books?

I just know. There is a line from a wonderful Thomas Lux poem: “You’re alone and you know a few things.” I just know that I am that good.

What about Raymond Chandler, who wrote so evocatively about Los Angeles lowlifes before you?

Dashiell Hammett, whose name is synonymous with the adjective “hard-boiled”?

I think he’s tremendously great; I just think I am greater. Read the five Hammett novels, and two of them are not good — “The Thin Man” and

Like him, you seem identified with the blue-collar world of police detectives, but do you ever want to write about white-collar crime?

What about more recent forms of criminal activity, like identity theft?

I think I know what it is. Someone gets ahold of your Visa card and charges stuff from J. Crew. Right?

Basically. You just moved back to your native L.A. this summer.

Do you plan to stay?

L.A.: Come on vacation, go home on probation.

I am happy by and large. I work hard. And I love life. I am having a blast.
132 2006-11-05 It seems colleges offer a lot of courses, more than they used to. Are there tricks to choosing your classes when the list is so long?

WITH a host of new ways to view the world, most colleges have expanded their catalogs. Trinity College in Hartford, for one, has increased offerings nearly 10 percent in the last decade. “There comes a point where you say, ‘How many are enough and how many are too much?’ ” says Rama Sudhakar, a spokeswoman. While Trinity recently dropped several dozen courses to compensate for high operational costs, it still offers about 900 for just 2,300 students.

Oberlin has “a ton” (563 for 2,800 students in the College of Arts and Sciences), says Kathryn Stuart, dean of studies. You can lose the advantage of choice if you’re overwhelmed or distracted from your aca de mic focus, she says. She urges treating the catalog like bedtime reading, coming into each term as familiar with it as any MySpace profile. Get syllabuses and sit in on a few sessions.

As in any good diet, balance is key; add a soupçon of risk in the form of courses that intrigue you or are just fun, she says. Be careful, especially early on, not to gorge on those with a heavy workload. “You don’t want to have too many pages a week to read or too many papers to write, even if you like English.”

We are pursuing a gap year for my son for the 2007-8 year. It has been highly stressed that he apply, be accepted and then take a year deferment. True?

IF your child has the qualifications, he generally benefits from applying first, then asking the college’s blessing to take a gap year, says Lee Stetson, dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania , where 60 to 70 incoming freshmen out of about 2,300 opt for such respites. Colleges do not get bent out of shape over gap years, even those used just to decompress. And if the year changes someone from a future financier to a future philosopher, only the deposit is lost.
133 2006-11-05 When an illness is called a “fever,” it’s bound to be underestimated. For years, I’ve been getting yellow fever shots when I travel overseas, thinking, big deal, you run a temperature for a few days and then you’re fine. I never gave much thought to the primary color attached to the front end of it. If anything, it gave the disease a sort of sunny-side-up, school buses-and-daffodils sound. I was unaware that the color refers to your liver and to your skin, which turns, to use Molly Caldwell Crosby’s effective description, “the color of unpolished brass.”

Compared with other colors going on in your body, yellow is the least of your worries. Red is oozing from your gums and other places there’s no need to mention here. Your tongue may turn black, matching the “black coffee ground fluid” that is accumulating in your stomach and is, like the gums business, made up of your own hemorrhaged blood. Yellow fever, the protagonist of Crosby’s frequently engrossing first book, “American Plague,” is almost as deadly a virus as ebola.

Few Americans realize that yellow fever was not always a disease of the faraway tropics. In 1878, an outbreak of yellow fever — the virus carried to the United States in mosquitoes from Africa — killed 20,000 people in the Mississippi Valley. Crosby, a journalist, profiles the outbreak as it rips through Memphis, the city hardest hit. She vividly evokes the Faulkner-meets-“Dawn of the Dead” horrors of that summer, as in this passage that follows a nun named Constance:

“Serpentine watermelon vines grew wildly around the homes in the neighborhood, and abandoned cats and dogs howled for lost owners. A pretty young girl in mourning led her into the house. Dust floated, effulgent, in the shafts of afternoon light, and the air was heavy as steam. One corpse lay on the sofa, another one on the bed, their skin yellow and tongues black. A tall young man, nearly naked, was also in the bed, delirious, rocking back and forth. His eyes sank deep into his cheekbones ringed by bruised half moons. Outside the window, Constance heard a crowd gathering, presumably to loot the house once all were dead. Constance ran into the yard and shouted at them to leave, warned them of the plague. They scattered like insects in the sunlight.”

Many of the elements of this tale are depressingly familiar. Though the death toll in Memphis alone surpassed that of the Chicago fire, the San Francisco earthquake and the Johnstown flood combined, President Rutherford B. Hayes was dismissive, calling pleas for help “greatly exaggerated.” Tell me if this rings a bell: “Federal response had been slow. In the South, the dead were still rotting unburied in cities and farmlands. Thousands of people had been displaced and collected in camps, waiting for food and supplies.”

The arrogance and ignorance of those in power is a recurring theme in “American Plague.” Decades before Walter Reed managed to convince the medical establishment that mosquitoes were the vector for yellow fever, a Cuban physician named Carlos Finlay had all but proved it. Lacking connections in the United States and cursed by a debilitating stutter, Finlay was waved away as a “crank” by everyone but Reed and the other members of the Yellow Fever Commission. When Reed pushed for funding to follow up on Finlay’s mosquito theory, Surgeon General George Sternberg initially rebuffed him, calling it “a useless investigation.” Incredibly, years later, Sternberg would try to take the credit for Finlay and Reed’s discovery. Talk about unpolished brass.
134 2006-11-05 For each year from 1984 to 2004, the professors ranked companies according to the total number of Congressional candidates to whom they had contributed over the trailing five-year period. They then calculated how the stocks in each yearly ranking performed over the subsequent 12 months. The correlation between the number of candidates to which a company has contributed and the subsequent performance of its stock was “so systematic over time for so many firms,” Professor Cooper said, that he and his co-authors are “confident that the pattern is not just a random fluke of the data.”

Based on the last data included in the study, which reflected contributions made through October 2004, the companies that donated to the greatest number of Congressional candidates were United Parcel Service, AT&T and Verizon.

David A. Bolger, a spokesman for U.P.S., said the company was politically active because of “the breadth and diversity of the issues we as a company face.” Mr. Bolger added, “We are present in every Congressional district, for example, and as well we are a global company, so trade issues also are critically important to us.”

Spokesmen for AT&T and Verizon declined to comment.

The professors focused on Congressional races, for several reasons. The only other electoral contests that appear in the Federal Election Commission database are those for president, and according to Professor Cooper, “a lot fewer corporate political action committees make contributions to presidential elections than to Congressional races, making it difficult to conduct meaningful statistical tests.” As for corporate contributions to candidates in local and state races, Professor Cooper said that he would “love to get the data, but I am not aware of any comprehensive national database that contains such data.”

Professor Cooper indicated that he and his co-authors initially were skeptical of their findings, since the average benefit realized by the shareholders of the contributing companies was so out of proportion to the dollar amount of the contributions. On average, the extra return earned by their stocks works out to a total benefit to each firm’s shareholders of around $150 million a year, according to the professors.

After subjecting their findings to other statistical tests, however, they concluded that the correlation between political contributions and subsequent stock performance was caused by their contributions and not by other characteristics of those companies. The market capitalization of the companies, for example, did not affect the correlation, the professors found. This certainly needed to be checked, because companies that have contributed to the most candidates have tended to be among the largest, and large-cap stocks outperformed small-caps during many of the years that the professors studied. But they found that, even when comparing two companies with similarly large market caps, the stock of companies that contributed to the most Congressional candidates tended to outperform the other companies.

In another test, the professors found that, on average, companies that contributed to many Congressional candidates experienced faster subsequent growth in their profitability than companies that contributed to just a few. This is significant, because if the benefit that the companies realized through their contributions had shown up only in higher prices for their stocks, but not in improved balance sheets, Professor Cooper argued, “this would have suggested that the effect of those contributions was due to investor perceptions and not from legislative changes affecting companies’ fundamentals.”

How did the politicians receiving contributions help the donor corporations? The professors don’t know, because they didn’t study it. They have their own suspicions, however. They imagine that the list includes “favorable tax treatment and or credits, the awarding of government contracts, the imposing of tariffs or other penalties on competitors, and implementing favorable regulatory requirements.” In short, the professors conclude that the political system in the United States falls far short of the goal of providing “equal and fair political access” for all citizens.

Regardless of the political conclusions you draw from the study, its investment implication is clear. Before putting your money down, a prudent investor should research many aspects of a company’s stock. Certainly, the scope of a company’s Congressional campaign contributions ought to be included in the list.
135 2006-11-05 Yet in many ways the market remains intensely local. Last month, Economy.com issued a report that examined the prospects for housing in 379 metropolitan markets. Over all, the consulting firm expects home prices to fall by a small increment in 2007. But there’s wide variation.

“About 100 of the 379 metro areas will experience some kind of measurable price decline, and they together make up about half the nation’s housing stock,” Mr. Zandi said.

On a map, areas most at risk for short-term pain look like a Democratic fund-raiser’s view of the country: Northern and Southern California, the Northeast and most of Florida. Meanwhile, in the remaining 279 metropolitan areas constituting most of the rest of the housing stock, prices should remain flat or rise. It’s a tale of two groups of cities.

Looking further into the future, Economy.com also projects that a small minority of the nation’s metro areas — about 20 — will experience a crash over the next several years. (Economy.com defines a crash as a double-digit percentage decline, from peak to trough.) Reno, Nev., is expected to fall 17.2 percent by the fourth quarter of 2008 from the fourth-quarter peak in 2005. But some markets are expected to hold up fairly well. Home prices in Portland, Ore., are expected to fall just 0.8 percent by 2009.

What accounts for the differences? Not all housing markets are created equal. Homes in some cities have appreciated much more than average during the last several decades, and might be expected to fare better in coming years.

Consider the places that a group of economists has dubbed “Superstar Cities.” These are coastal urban areas where a scarcity of land, local regulations that prevent rapid development, and a plethora of well-paying jobs in thriving industries (rich people) have combined to create fertile housing microclimates.

“If they were stocks, they’d be high-priced growth stocks,” said Todd Sinai, professor of economics at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Professor Sinai co-authored a paper on Superstar Cities with two other professors, Joseph Gyourko of Wharton and Christopher Mayer of Columbia.

Looking back to the period from 1950 to 2000, the economists found that in San Francisco, a Superstar City, housing prices grew at a real annual rate of 3.5 percent a year —more than twice the national average.

In less-glamorous burgs, where land is comparatively plentiful and high-income jobs have been scarcer, price advances have been muted. From 1950 to 2000, housing prices in Buffalo grew at 0.54 percent a year, for example.

To the degree that New York, Boston and San Francisco maintain their appeal to high-earning workers and companies, they might be insulated from long-term declines in prices. Of course, past performance is no guide to future performance, and not all Superstar Cities are created equal.

MACROMARKETS, a company founded by Professor Shiller, has introduced futures contracts on housing prices in 10 markets. The contracts, traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, allow investors and builders to hedge bets or make investments based on how they think housing will do in 10 cities, among them superstars like New York, Boston, San Francisco and San Diego.

Professor Shiller cautions that the contracts aren’t very liquid. But on Friday, the futures market predicted that by August 2007, housing prices in the Chicago area would fall by 5.4 percent. On the same day, investors were betting that housing prices in Las Vegas would fall by a larger margin — 7.1 percent — in the same time frame.

The predictions by Economy.com and the futures markets provide a more nuanced view of the national housing market than the monthly data released by the National Association of Realtors and the Commerce Department. But lately, the data has all been trending in the same negative direction, even for the Superstar Cities. Professor Shiller said, “They’re all sending roughly the same signal.”
136 2006-11-05 As a way onto a selective campus, apply to an underexposed program; once in, transfer to the desired one.

The University of California at Berkeley puts out a flier listing commonly asked questions, including: “If I don’t think I will be admitted into the college or major I want, can I apply to another one and switch after I’m on campus?” The answer is tentative: “It may be possible” but “it may be very difficult.” But one thing is certain: selectivity varies. At Berkeley, the combined SAT average score of this fall’s freshmen was 1953 for the College of Letters and Science; 1892 for the College of Environmental Design; and 1842 in the College of Natural Resources.

For Cornell this fall, 90 percent of freshmen admitted to the College of Arts and Sciences placed in the top 10 percent of their high school class; 75 percent ranked that high for Agriculture and Life Sciences. Gender matters, too. A woman had a 20 percent chance of getting into Arts and Sciences but a 49 percent chance of getting into the College of Engineering.

Although universities generally report only a campuswide set of statistics, most admissions offices will break them down by individual program if you ask.

Once on campus, you can typically apply for transfer after one year — if you’ve taken appropriate courses and maintained a solid grade point average (around a 3.0 at Cornell and Berkeley; 1.8 at Vanderbilt and the University of Virginia). Cornell wants students to resubmit their college applications and write a statement outlining their academic plans.

To be admitted to a specialized program in lieu of liberal arts, you need to have demonstrated some proficiency in the field, and before senior year. Howard Greene, a consultant in Westport, Conn., encourages students looking at Vanderbilt to consider the education or music school. In 2005, the two had a 44 percent admittance rate compared with 31 percent for liberal arts. “The cute phrase they use down there is Chopin-ing your way in,” he says. But, he warns, do this only if you have a genuine interest in music or teaching.
137 2006-11-05 THE ST. COLETTA SCHOOL IN WASHINGTON, D.C., LOOKS LIKE A LEGO set come to life, all bold shapes and candy colors. Unveiled in September, the building was designed by Michael Graves to reflect the school’s mission: to teach life and job skills to students with the most severe cognitive disabilities, including autism and mental retardation. As it happens, Mr. Graves was stricken midway through the project with a mysterious sinus infection that left him in a wheelchair, paralyzed from the chest down. By then, the design was largely done, but Mr. Graves now knew to leave an even wider berth for wheelchairs, to spare doorways nicks and dents.

St. Coletta was founded in 1959 as a private school by the parents of a Down syndrome child. Over the years, it has occupied basements and churches, with limited success retrofitting with even basic ramps. With its move from the Virginia suburbs to Washington this fall, the school expanded (to 271 students, ages 3 to 22) and redefined itself as the St. Coletta Special Education Public Charter School. The $32 million building was financed, in part, by $12.4 million appropriated by Congress. It now occupies almost 100,000 square feet of light and colors and soft surfaces, built from the ground up for those who face the steepest hurdles to learning.
138 2006-11-05 Rarely has beer money been put to such good use. Backed by his Carlsberg beer empire, the 19th-century industrialist Carl Jacobsen built the impressive Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek (Dantes Plads 7; 45-33-41-81-41; www.glyptoteket.dk), a Beaux-Arts-style art museum, and stocked it with ancient and classical treasures. Standouts include the massive 13th-century statue of Ramses majestically seated with the god Ptah, as well as top works by Manet, Gauguin, Rodin, Degas and other French masters. Admission is 50 kroner.

A perennial favorite of screaming children, the historic amusement park Tivoli (www.tivoli.dk; admission: 75 kroner for adults) is suddenly causing gourmands to squeal with delight as well. The reason is the Paul (45-33-75-07-75; www.thepaul.dk), an elegant and airy Michelin-starred restaurant with furniture by the cult Danish design firm GUBI. The chef, Paul Cunningham, changes the menu often, but always features seasonal and regional ingredients including pigeons, which he roasts to sublime delicacy and tops with a pungent syrup of licorice root. He also turns humble parsley into a luscious green crème brûlée. The seven-course dinner menu is 700 kroner.

Stroget, the ever-popular pedestrian-only retail strip that threads through the centuries-old town houses and majestic squares of central Copenhagen, is your yellow-brick road to Danish design. The Georg Jensen store (Amagertorv 4; 45-33-11-40-80) is a sleek boutique devoted to Jensen, the silversmith, and other legendary Danish designers. Then hit the side streets, where the new innovators of Scandinavian style are hiding. Stilleben (Laederstraede 14; 45-33-91-11-31; www.stilleben.dk) sells exquisitely wrought and luminously hued ceramics, porcelain and glassware from young creators. Shunning minimalism, the furniture designers at Hay (Pilestraede 29-31; 45-99-42-44-00) favor bright colors, soft forms and fuzzy textures. Fashion also gets that modern Scandinavian touch at Munthe Plus Simonsen (Gronnegade 10; 45-33-32-03-12; www.muntheplussimonsen.com), an emporium of autumnally colored prêt-à-porter garments enlivened by playful fur trim, Arabesque stitching and other embellishments.

East and West sit down for a style summit at the buzzing restaurant Umami (Store Kongensgade 59; 45-33-38-75-00; www.restaurant-umami.dk), where the über-chic décor melds Zen minimalism and lightness with Scandinavian angularity and warm wood tones. Similarly, the menu unites French and Japanese cuisine — call it Frapanese — in dishes like sake-steamed mussels with chili and coriander (90 kroner), seared foie gras with eel and pear (165 kroner), and grilled veal tenderloin with wasabi (210 kroner). The restroom, which suggests a futuristic bank vault, is an arch nod to the monied Helmut Lang-clad masses who pack the place.

A former haven for hookers and basement sex shops, the western Vesterbro neighborhood now abounds with salons, upscale eating places, vintage clothing boutiques and the city’s edgiest nightlife. “Bachelor parties — no thanks,” reads the door of Boutique Lize (Enghave Plads 6; 45-33-31-15-60). The cooler-than-school bar is routinely packed with rock ’n’ rollers, creative types and slumming society girls. The music, which ranges from punk to electro to hip-hop, sounds best with a glass of the house ale (35 kroner). For a quieter cocktail, try Kulby (Oehlenschlaegersgade 53A; 45-40-78-58-23). The décor at this new bar may be stripped-down Danish minimalism — raw brick, wood-plank floor — but the vibe is warm.

It’s good to be king. How good? Judging from a visit to Rosenborg Palace, the former royal residence (Ostervoldgade 4A; 45-33-15-32-86; www.rosenborgslot.dk; 65 kroner for adults), if you are a king you can strum an ivory guitar, play chess with amber pieces, drink from nautilus-shell cups and romp around in rooms bedecked in frescos and Brobdinagian fireplaces. Dating to 1606, the long-disused castle also safeguards the Danish royal jewels, including the dazzling crown of King Christian IV, Rosenborg’s creator. Encrusted with pearls, rubies and sapphires, the six-pound gold behemoth would make Zsa Zsa Gabor blush.

For classic Danish smorrebrod — ornate open-faced sandwiches on buttered bread — descend into the cozy basement confines of Ida Davidsen (Store Kongensgade 70; 45-33-91-36-55), a Copenhagen institution since the 19th century. The late entertainer Victor Borge, a former patron, lives on today as a smorrebrod of salmon, shrimp, crayfish and caviar (120 kroner). Hans Christian Andersen is likewise immortalized in bacon, tomato, paté and horseradish (50 kroner). With so much 21st-century style infusing Copenhagen right now, can a smorrebrod named after the supermodel Helena Christensen be far behind? The restaurant is open Monday to Friday and is closed on Saturday and Sunday.

Kastrup Airport is about eight miles from Copenhagen’s center. Continental Airlines (www.continental.com) offers round-trip fares in November from Newark airport starting at around $500. From Kastrup, the best option is catch the shuttle train from Terminal 3, the main international terminal. The 12-minute journey to Copenhagen Central Station costs 27 kroner (about $4.65 at 6 kroner to the U.S. dollar).

A bicycle is the best way to get around. Rent one at Kobenhavns Cyklebors (Gothersgade 157; 45-33-14-07-17; www.cykelboersen.dk), from 60 kroner a day and 270 kroner a week.

The Copenhagen Island (Kalvebod Brygge 53; 45-33-38-96-00; www.copenhagenisland.com) is a new addition to the city’s hotel scene. The glassy atrium gives the 326-room hotel an upscale business polish. Weekend doubles start at 1,345 kroner.

The stylish Hotel Skt. Petri (Krystalgade 22; 45-33-45-91-00; www.hotelsktpetri.com) is the kind of place that has its own CD of chill-out music and its own brand of caviar. Housed in a former department store, the hotel’s 270 rooms were designed by Per Arnoldi, a top Danish graphic artist. Doubles from 1,995 kroner.

For contempo-cool intimacy, try the Hotel Guldsmeden Bertrams (Vesterbrogade 107; 45-33-25-04-05; www.hotelguldsmeden.dk), which opened in April 2006. The town-house hotel combines old-world details with modern amenities like flat-screen TVs. Doubles from 1,345 kroner.
139 2006-11-05 Tourists and transplants are often lured to New York by the West Village, with its brownstones and bohemians, jazz and ''Sex.'' ''My first association with the Village came from watching the film 'Klute,''' says the restaurateur Keith McNally. ''S...
140 2006-11-05 Got a sweet tooth? Head to the makeup counter, where Dior has a new creamy lip liner in Cocoa Shake and Diane Brill packages her glosses in a bonbon box. Upping the ante, Origins tapped Jacques Torres, aka Mr. Chocolate, to develop its holistic Co...
141 2006-11-05 If you don't recognize the name Alan Yau, wait a few weeks. His first restaurant in the United States, Park Chinois, just opened in Ian Schrager's Gramercy Park Hotel. And if it's anything like Hakkasan or Yauatcha, Yau's Michelin-starred Chinese ...
142 2006-11-05 Everyone has heard a great (if obscure) song while dining and asked, ''What is that?'' At last, these restaurants' current Top 5 playlists provide some answers.   PAUL L. UNDERWOOD...
143 2006-11-05 Tano Simonato is Milan's olive-oil sommelier. Every evening at his aptly named restaurant, Tano Passami l'Olio (''Tano, pass me the oil''), he finishes off dishes -- like honey-lacquered pigeon, Caldiff-marinated scallops with foie gras and game-f...
144 2006-11-05 These contemporary artists are becoming known for their fixations with mainstream foods, elevating certain culinary staples into modern-day icons.   Michèle Gentille...
145 2006-11-05 To the Editor : Henry Shukman's otherwise fine article, ''D. H. Lawrence's New Mexico: The Ghosts That Grip the Soul of Bohemian Taos'' (Cultured Traveler, Oct. 22), missed the mark in its description of the founders of the Taos art colony. The fo...
146 2006-11-05 You may be a tourist, but that's no reason to dress like one. Pack a few outfits like these, and you'll be able to hold your own with even the chicest habitués of the hottest restaurants in Los Angeles, London and Buenos Aires.   Sandra Ballentin...
147 2006-11-05 The British architect John Pawson has done his fair share of kitchen duty. The master minimalist's résumé includes the cooking primer ''Living and Eating,'' a pared-down kitchen system for Obumex, unfussy tableware for When Objects Work and stre...
148 2006-11-05 West village dining ... doughnut paintings ... stealth kitchens ... nose-to-tail snacking ... chocolate kisses....
149 2006-11-05 Had Claude Deloffre lived life as a certain dauphine with a penchant for Sèvres porcelain, she would have taught the peasants to make cake. Walk into Galerie Librairie Food, Deloffre's tiny Parisian storefront in the Marais, and you will find you...
150 2006-11-05 VAN STOCKUM--Hilda, noted author, illustrator and painter, whose children's books have won Newbery honors and the National Conference of Christians and Jews Brotherhood Award, died peacefully at her home in Berkhamsted, U.K. on All Saints Day afte...
151 2006-11-05 The vagaries of the real estate market are hitting Westchester County, with prices stagnating, sales plummeting and inventory languishing.     According to third-quarter figures from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service, which compiles ...
152 2006-11-05 BEFORE that first tuition check is even signed, the sweat can begin to bead up on a parent's brow over a slew of minor charges. Application fees are rising, and the cost of entrance exams multiplies with each retaking: SAT score reports can list t...
153 2006-11-05 In addition to a list of candidates to choose from on Tuesday, voters in Nassau County will face another item on the ballot: a $100 million bond referendum for the preservation of open space and environmental improvements.      The measure, which ...
154 2006-11-06 Recent investigations into stock-options backdating have put chief executives, corporate lawyers and compensation committees on the spot. In a recent column, Forbes.com's Elizabeth MacDonald says she thinks that auditing firms should feel the heat...
155 2006-11-06 Overstock.com reports a dismal quarter, and says it may need to raise capital next year....
156 2006-11-06 Many voters worry that their ballots won't be accurately tallied....
157 2006-11-06 The Apollo Group, a for-profit education company, said Friday that its chief financial officer had resigned and its top accounting officer was placed on leave during an internal review of stock options. The chief financial officer, Kenda Gonzales,...
158 2006-11-06 The New York Times Company may be headed for a proxy battle with one of its largest shareholders. Morgan Stanley Investment Management, which has a 7.6 percent stake in the Times Company, has stepped up a campaign to spur the company to change its...
159 2006-11-06 Less than a week after Linde said it would put Kion, its forklift unit, on the block rather than pursue an initial public offering of the business, the company said it had sold the unit to the private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Goldm...
160 2006-11-06 Visa Europe and Morgan Stanley have settled an antitrust dispute over access to Visa's credit card network that could lead to the end of a European Commission inquiry of Visa, the Financial Times said. The paper said Visa had denied Morgan Stanley...
161 2006-11-06 Canada's Investment Dealers Association has accused RBC Dominion Securities of failing to meet capital reserve requirements, a rare liquidity breach for a major brokerage firm, The Globe and Mail reported. The association said Friday it would hold...
162 2006-11-06 Stock in a biotech firm Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, has been trading at an all-time high since last Monday, when Merck said it would buy a rival, Sirna Therapeutics for $1.1 billion in cash. Investors, it seems, are betting that Alnylam might be the ...
163 2006-11-06 The London Stock Exchange has proposed an operational tie-up with its Japanese counterpart, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, according to the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The report comes on the heels of an announcement by the Tokyo exchange that it is in talks...
164 2006-11-06 Is Vivendi in play? That was the question being whispered among the world's media moguls over the weekend after it emerged that Vivendi had held talks with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company over a potential $50 billion takeover bid, which would ha...
165 2006-11-06 The conventional wisdom is that the billionaire investor Carl Icahn failed in his bid to force a breakup of Time Warner. But we should all fail so well: The shares Mr. Icahn bought for $17 apiece recently traded at about $20. Even Time Warner's ch...
166 2006-11-06 The video store will work much like that of Apple Computer, with some important differences. While users will be able to keep television shows, movies can only be rented for a 24-hour period. The videos will not be playable on other devices and cannot be burned onto DVDs, but the online service will keep track of purchases so users can log in to watch their videos on a friend’s Xbox.

Peter Moore, Microsoft’s corporate vice president for interactive entertainment, said that the cost of standard-definition videos would be comparable to what competitors charged. Apple’s iTunes charges $1.99 for an episode of a television show.

High-definition content will cost more, Mr. Moore said, because of the costs involved in storing it and making it available for download. Purchases will be made with points that users can buy with a credit card or on a gift certificate, or win in contests.

Mr. Moore said the service was initially intended to make the Xbox more versatile and therefore more attractive. “Direct revenue from this over the long term could be important,” Mr. Moore said. “But this is also another reason to buy an Xbox 360.”

New game consoles from Sony and Nintendo are due out this month, a year after the Xbox 360 went on sale, so extra features could help Microsoft keep up in the marketplace. Nintendo is concentrating on gameplay, but Sony says it also has other content in mind.

“We haven’t announced any content besides games, but all the executives have said that downloading other entertainment content is something the PlayStation 3 is capable of doing,” said Dave Karraker, a spokesman for Sony Computer Entertainment America.

Judging by the initial offerings, Xbox Live will be something of a cyberspace version of the Spike Channel, MTV Networks’ cable channel aimed at young men. It will sell episodes of “Star Trek,” remastered in high-definition, as well as the “C.S.I.” shows, some music videos and cartoons from the Cartoon Network’s “Adult Swim.”

“The interesting thing is that we’re delivering the 18-to-34-year-olds who aren’t watching TV,” Mr. Moore said.

Microsoft has sold more than 2 million Xbox 360 consoles in the United States, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm. Most of those who buy the machine sign up for the Xbox Live service, which requires broadband Internet access and allows members to compete against each other. Since the debut of the Xbox 360 last year, the service has also sold simple video games and other material.

This year, Microsoft started to hint at its ambitions for the Xbox Live service when it purchased a company that places advertising in video games and made an ad deal with Cadillac. In the past few years, Microsoft has been pushing the idea of Media Center PCs, which are meant to sit in the living room and supply music and video to the stereo and the television. But the concept has not caught on, in part because of the complexity of setting up and using these systems.

Mr. Enderle said that apart from the simplicity factor, another feature that would set the XBox Live service apart is that it will be the first service to sell downloadable movies in high definition, at a resolution similar to or better than a DVD. Until now, he said, most studios have generally been reluctant to allow cable channels to show movies in high definition for fear of piracy, but that would be less of a threat on XBox Live.

Early next year, Apple plans to introduce a product that it is preliminarily calling iTV and that is designed to be a bridge between the computer and the television.

But Microsoft will go into the video business with a different business model. Apple, most analysts believe, does not make much money selling iTunes content, but makes up for it by selling more iPods, which are extremely profitable. Microsoft, which analysts say loses money on each Xbox 360 it sells, expects to make up for that shortfall by selling games — and now video.

“This is a razors and blades business,” Mr. Moore said. “I’ve taken the hit on the razor. And the ability of Microsoft to offer more blades gives consumers more choice and drives more revenue.”

The video downloads, especially those in high definition, will take up a lot of space. Microsoft says a two-hour high-definition movie will take up about 6 gigabytes of the console’s standard 20 gigabyte hard drive. Microsoft says the Xbox will play both movies and TV shows as they are downloading, although with larger files there will be a delay before playback starts, in contrast to the video-on-demand services offered by cable companies. High-definition movies will take an especially long while, depending on the speed of the Internet connection. There will be an option to download them overnight.
167 2006-11-06 What was left for Sunday was to begin sorting the tangled skein of spiritual and political implications, betrayal, anguish, anger and sadness that the episode left behind in the church and across the evangelical world. Speakers urged the church’s members to find a way forward without recrimination or bitterness; a letter from Mr. Haggard was read from the 8,000-seat auditorium’s center stage.

Mr. Haggard’s letter said that people should forgive the Denver man who broke the story, Michael Jones, in particular — though Mr. Jones was not referred to by name.

“He is revealing the deception and sensuality that was in my life,” Mr. Haggard wrote. “Those sins, and others, need to be dealt with harshly. So forgive him, and actually, thank God for him.”

Neither Mr. Haggard in his letter, nor the board members who spoke in the service, specified precisely what Mr. Haggard’s transgressions had been.

“The accusations that have been leveled against me are not all true,” Mr. Haggard wrote, “but enough of them are true that I have been appropriately and lovingly removed from ministry. I am so embarrassed and ashamed. I caused this and I have no excuse. I am a sinner. I have fallen.”

Many church members interviewed after the service praised the board for acting so quickly and decisively. Others said the service left them with a new understanding of why many of Mr. Haggard’s sermons had been so powerful: his talk of temptation, sin and guilt were not just idle words.

“He struggled with the same issues he preached about,” said Basil Marotta, who said he ran his own Christian ministry in the Colorado Springs area with his wife.

It was not until a letter was read from Mr. Haggard’s wife, Gayle, that the tissue boxes were really needed. Ms. Haggard was deeply involved with the various women’s groups and classes at New Life Church. She wrote that she loved her husband, with whom she has five children, and would stick with him.

And what Ms. Haggard wrote next received a big and wrenching laugh from the crowd:

“For those of you who have been concerned that my marriage was so perfect I could not possibly relate to the women who are facing great difficulties, know that this will never again be the case,” she wrote.

One woman who came to a New Life service for the first time on Sunday said she was drawn by what she believed would be a positive and open discussion in the church, going forward from here, about sexual addiction.

“I’ll be back, definitely,” she said.

New Life’s interim senior pastor, Ross Parsley, told the church members that for all the difficulty that lay ahead of them and any despair they might feel right now, they should remember that Mr. Haggard’s departure had also cleared out a cloud that, in retrospect, had been hanging over the church because of the pastor’s secrets.

Mr. Haggard, in addition to his prominent role in Colorado, was also the president of the National Association of Evangelicals until his resignation last week. The group announced on Sunday that Leith Anderson, a well-known author and senior pastor of the Wooddale Church in Eden Prairie, Minn., had been named interim president.

“We all feel worse today than we did a week ago,” Mr. Parsley said, “but we were worse off a week ago. Pastor Ted is living in a greater measure of repentance and forgiveness today than he has been living in for years.”

Other speakers urged the congregation not to look for political conspiracies. If the timing of the disclosures affects the nation, or the election on Tuesday, then that is God’s will, the speakers said. Mr. Haggard was a prominent supporter of conservative causes, including a proposed amendment to the Colorado Constitution defining marriage as between one man and one woman.

“God does things when he thinks they’re appropriate,” said Larry Stockstill, the pastor of the Bethany World Prayer Center in Louisiana, from which the New Life Church began in 1985 as an outreach mission.

“What’s going to happen in the nation?” Mr. Stockstill said. “You know what — I don’t think that’s your concern or mine. He chose this incredibly important time for this sin to be revealed and I actually think it’s a good thing — I believe America needs a shaking, spiritually.”
168 2006-11-06 “But my friends, we are there today,” he added. “And I’m convinced that if we set a date for withdrawal, as some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to do, I think you’re going to see chaos in the region.”

A few towns away, Mr. Murphy rallied other veterans alongside Representative John P. Murtha, the conservative Pennsylvania Democrat whose turnabout on Iraq a year ago has made him his party’s face of opposition to the war.

“They say we’re going to win, we’re going to have a victory; they say we’re going to have democracy,” Mr. Murtha said. “Well let me tell you, that’s not a strategy, that’s a goal. And there’s no strategy. The strategy is stay the course. Even though they say it’s not stay the course, that’s what they’ve been saying — his opponent has been saying stay the course. That doesn’t work.”

Both candidates had lost their voices after a weekend of rallies featuring the luminaries of their national parties: Mr. McCain for Mr. Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Murtha, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and former Vice President Al Gore for Mr. Murphy.

Like Republicans across the country, Mr. Fitzpatrick, a former county commissioner, has tried to make the campaign about local issues. He accuses Mr. Murphy, who grew up in northeast Philadelphia, on the edge of the district, of moving here only to run for Congress. In a debate, he asked him how many school districts Bucks County had, leaving Mr. Murphy flustered when he could not answer.

“Why are we voting for Mike?” an organizer shouted to the veterans at the Fitzpatrick rally. Then he answered himself: “He’s one of us!”

At a boilermakers’ hall, a busload of Harvard students had come for the weekend to volunteer for Mr. Murphy because he impressed them in a speech last year as a young voice for change. And at 33, he looks younger than some of them. He has no experience in elective office. But by talking about the war he saw up close, and arguing, as he did in a closing advertisement, that “George Bush and Mike Fitzpatrick have no idea how to fix this mess,” Mr. Murphy has pulled himself up in the polls.

Sunday morning, he told volunteers he was five points ahead in his own poll.

“But polls don’t vote,” he reminded them, urging them to motivate other voters. “We’re on the crest of greatness. Let’s just go execute and make it happen.”

At the rally with Mr. McCain, Joe Amodei, a 75-year-old Korean War veteran, lamented Mr. Fitzpatrick’s position in a bad year for Republicans. “If it was just him against the other guy, and no outside national issues, he’d walk away with it,” Mr. Amodei said. “His opponent has made it about larger issues. If he made it about the county, he’d have no chance to win.”

Across the country, candidates clashed Sunday over the war, immigration, the economy, ethics and the Bush administration, seeking advantage in the closing hours of an election that will determine control of the House and the Senate. With Mr. Hussein’s death sentence injecting a late new element into the debate, Republicans sought to limit their losses and Democrats argued the need for change in Washington, as tens of thousands of volunteers on each side went door to door to rally voters.

SEYMOUR, Ind., Nov. 5 — There is uneasiness in being a marginal Republican incumbent in a longtime Democratic district.

It surfaced, briefly, at a country restaurant on Sunday when a friendly voice told Representative Mike Sodrel to rest easy about Tuesday.

Mr. Sodrel, a freshman Republican, demurred, replying: “I don’t know if we got it made. But I think we’re going to prevail.”

That cautious note seemed appropriate in one of the tightest races in the country, here in Indiana’s Ninth Congressional District, where an important economic concern — high gasoline prices — has been somewhat alleviated in the past few weeks as the price at the pump has edged down.

The district was held for 40 years by Democrats, including Lee H. Hamilton, the former Foreign Affairs Committee chairman, until Mr. Sodrel took it — barely — on President Bush’s coattails in 2004. Now polls show the seat as a tossup between Mr. Sodrel and the Democrat he defeated, Baron Hill, who had held the seat for three terms.

The race has been as sharp-edged as the southern Indiana countryside is soft and undulating. Off a pastoral road, a billboard denounces Mr. Hill as a supporter of same-sex marriage, abortion and taking “God” out of the Pledge of Allegiance. Across the way a sign for Mr. Hill answers: “Stop the lies. Shame on Mike Sodrel.”

The local airwaves are pulsing with commercials denouncing “Millionaire Mike” — Mr. Sodrel is a self-made trucking magnate — or “liberal Baron Hill.”

On Sunday, Mr. Sodrel reduced this grudge rematch to a simple dynamic. “He wants his seat back,” he said softly.

Mr. Hill, at a campaign stop in the courthouse square in Scottsburg, was all fire and aggression, denouncing the Bush administration’s policy in Iraq, millionaire C.E.O.’s and Republicans caught in scandal.

Mr. Sodrel was sticking to his guns, greeting supporters at Graceland Baptist Church, a sprawling edifice in New Albany, and insisting that flag, marriage and abortion mattered more here than the war: “I always tell people, if Norman Rockwell exists, it is in the Ninth District of Indiana.” ADAM NOSSITER

War

Veterans’ Support and Iraq at the Fore

DES PLAINES, Ill., Nov. 5 — Even as volunteers lined up Sunday morning to carry the last sacks of leaflets into a web of suburbs west of Chicago, Iraq loomed over the tense race for the Congressional seat that Henry J. Hyde, a Republican, is leaving.

One volunteer, Henry Nerwin, 81 and a Navy veteran, had a question for Tammy Duckworth, the Democratic candidate in the district, who sat in a wheelchair, having lost her legs when the helicopter she was piloting in Iraq took fire: Would she quit the Veterans of Foreign Wars now?

On Friday, Peter J. Roskam, the Republican candidate, announced that he had received the endorsement of the V.F.W.’s political action committee. It was the latest development in a campaign defined by punches and counterpunches in a flood of television commercials and daily leafleting that some voters complain has literally covered their porches.

Ms. Duckworth, who says the war in Iraq should never have been waged, said that she had never talked to the veterans group about an endorsement and that this was “just politics.” Mr. Nerwin said he thought it was “reprehensible” that the V.F.W. had not endorsed her.

“I’ve been advocating for veterans since I was in my hospital bed,” said Ms. Duckworth, who said she would maintain her V.F.W. membership.

A spokesman for Mr. Roskam, Jason Roe, said that Mr. Roskam, who did not serve in the military, had received the endorsement because he had sought it out and his positions on veterans’ issues suited the group.

At a diner in Villa Park, Jean Sacco said she had been leaning toward Mr. Roskam until Ms. Duckworth appeared at her table on Sunday. They talked about immigration, but Ms. Duckworth’s military sacrifice was also important to Ms. Sacco, who said her son was a service member. “That matters to me,” she said.

At a pancake breakfast in Bartlett, Lee Ann Rydosz said she had long voted Republican, as most in this district have for Mr. Hyde’s 32 years in office, and would again. Mr. Roskam has said that the troops should leave Iraq, though he is uncertain when the ideal time for that will arrive.

“The job in Iraq has to be done,” Ms. Rydosz said. “We need to let the Iraqis get on their feet.” MONICA DAVEY

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Nov. 5 — As a new poll suggested that he might be slipping behind his Democratic challenger, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. told volunteers Sunday that they were the “secret weapon” that would deliver him a 14th term.

The poll, which queried 400 likely voters and was published Sunday by The Miami Herald, found that 49 percent said they preferred the Democratic challenger, State Senator Ron Klein, to Mr. Shaw, the Republican, who drew the support of 40 percent of respondents; 6 percent were undecided. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus five percentage points.

For most of the race, Mr. Shaw, who has been asking voters to trust his seniority, has been in a dead heat with Mr. Klein, who has been promoting his status as an outsider.

Mr. Klein spent the day greeting voters at a parade and a festival, changing his schedule as his aides considered and reconsidered the most valuable use of his time.

Mr. Shaw was less frenzied, rallying volunteers at a lunch here with the message that the race was tight but that his turnout operation had more muscle. His spokeswoman said that 50 volunteers had arrived from Washington to join dozens already in the district, which runs along the coast from Fort Lauderdale to northern Palm Beach County.

“No one is organized like we are,” Mr. Shaw said before the volunteers set out to walk precincts, run phone banks and wave signs along highways. “You have no idea how important you are. The other side does not have this support, and we are going to go out with our heads high and have a great celebration on Tuesday night.”

Mr. Shaw continued to run advertisements attacking Mr. Klein. His latest accused Mr. Klein of siding with insurance companies as a state lawmaker and lobbyist while property insurance rates skyrocketed.

Mr. Klein’s most recent advertisement does not mention Mr. Shaw but repeats Mr. Klein’s mantra that Washington needs new and independent voices.

On Saturday, while Mr. Shaw and his wife greeted voters, Mr. Klein enlisted former President Bill Clinton to help drill home his anti-incumbency theme at a rally in Pompano Beach. Mr. Clinton said it was time to rid the nation of “the most special-interest-dominated government in my lifetime.” ABBY GOODNOUGH

Social Issues

A Race for Every Vote (Left to Cast, That Is)

BELLEVUE, Wash., Nov. 5 — In Darcy Burner’s final rush of campaign advertisements, she compares her opponent to President Bush and says he is out of touch with his constituents on the war and social issues. Ms. Burner’s opponent, Representative Dave Reichert, is running advertisements saying she lacks experience, dodges difficult questions and wants to raise taxes.

Yet even as the tight race intensifies between Ms. Burner, a Democrat and former Microsoft executive with little political experience, and Mr. Reichert, the first-term Republican she is challenging in the Eighth Congressional District, it is also closer to over than many others across the country.

Both campaigns said Sunday that up to 40 percent of voters here had already sent in their ballots, taking advantage of the state’s mail-in voting option, and that more than 70 percent were expected to do so by Election Day, leaving a small fraction to show up at the polls on Tuesday.

“Hitting them all at this point just annoys them,” Ms. Burner said Sunday as she visited homes in this affluent suburb of Seattle that her campaign had pinpointed as potentially supportive. “So we’re trying to be considerate and productive.”

Mr. Reichert spent part of Sunday ringing doorbells but said he had also worked lines at the many Starbucks in his district, which pushes south and east from the more politically moderate Bellevue to rural areas where Republicans are strongest.

Mr. Reichert, who holds a narrow lead over Ms. Burner in most polls, said voters had told him they were concerned about the war, immigration and the federal budget.

Ms. Burner, however, said Mr. Reichert was “fiscally irresponsible and socially conservative,” out of step with his well-educated, technologically savvy constituents on social and economic issues like abortion, stem-cell research and the minimum wage.

The congressman, after initially opposing embryonic stem-cell research, changed his position this year, going against President Bush. A campaign spokeswoman, Kimberly Cadena, said the shift was not politically motivated, adding, “It’s based on his heart and what the science he found told him.” WILLIAM YARDLEY

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Nov. 5 — As Harry Mitchell, a Democrat who has been giving Representative J. D. Hayworth a tough challenge, sought to energize the volunteers about to knock on doors for him in Phoenix on Sunday, he invoked the word that he believed summed up his campaign: change.

“We reflect the mood of the country,” said Mr. Mitchell, a state senator and former mayor of Tempe. “And the mood of the country is ‘We want change.’ ”

With that, the volunteers set out, hoping to deliver on his prediction in the predominantly Republican Fifth Congressional District, where Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Hayworth have argued over taxes, health care, their personalities and, of course, this being a border state, illegal immigration.

On Sunday, neither Mr. Mitchell, who appeared at get-out-the-vote rallies, nor Mr. Hayworth, a six-term Republican, focused on specifics in the illegal immigration debate, which originally drove the campaign. Instead they made more general pleas for voters to get to the polls on Tuesday.

Mr. Hayworth is known for an uncompromising approach to illegal immigration — he emphasizes building a border fence and vehemently opposes any program that would lead to citizenship for illegal workers — and often delivers fiery speeches on talk shows.

Mr. Mitchell brought in a supporter, Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California, to increase turnout among Latinos angry at Mr. Hayworth’s hard-line stance.

“Are we the party of fear?” Mr. Becerra called out at one rally.

Mr. Hayworth, meanwhile, had a morning interview on the Fox News Channel, walked through precincts and rallied supporters at a cowboy-themed steakhouse.

In the interview on “Fox and Friends,” Mr. Hayworth dismissed Democrats and pundits in Washington who were speculating on, and in some cases predicting, his political demise.

“I am going to hang on to my seat,” he said, “and I think there are going to be a lot of surprises on Election Day.”

And at the restaurant here, Mr. Hayworth said his top concern was to secure the border. “National security,” he said, “is border security.” RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

Scandal

Using Abramoff Case, and Waving It Off

STOCKTON, Calif., Nov. 5 — On a warm, cloudless morning, Lawrence Talbot, a volunteer coordinator for Jerry McNerney, stood beneath a stand of palms, briefing his troops on the day’s plans — and his candidate’s positions.

“It’s all about accountability and bringing integrity back to Washington,” said Mr. Talbot, 35, who works in public relations. “And that’s what we want to emphasize.”

Mr. Talbot was one of hundreds of volunteers canvassing California’s 11th Congressional District this weekend for Mr. McNerney, the Democrat locked in a tight campaign against the incumbent Republican, Representative Richard W. Pombo. On Sunday, both men crisscrossed the district, which sprawls over four counties east of San Francisco.

Mr. Pombo moved from a rally to a veterans event and then planned to call voters into the evening. Mr. McNerney hit a festival devoted to cranes (the birds, not the machinery), visited with volunteers and was scheduled to have dinner with a group of American Indian voters.

Mr. McNerney, who was soundly defeated by Mr. Pombo in 2004, has based much of his campaign this time on his environmental credentials (he is a wind energy expert) and the tinge of scandal hanging to Mr. Pombo, who accepted tens of thousands of dollars in past campaign contributions from the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff.

Mr. Pombo, who hails from a successful Central Valley real estate family, has denied any wrongdoing. And he counters questions about his tenure by saying that Mr. McNerney is little known in the district where the Pombo name adorns buildings and for-sale signs.

At an event in Pleasanton, Mr. McNerney’s hometown, Mr. Pombo spoke briefly to a crowd of veterans even as McNerney supporters across the street waved signs paid for by the Defenders of Wildlife Action Fund, one of several environmental groups that have spent heavily to try to defeat Mr. Pombo. Several amputees in wheelchairs echoed the theme of a McNerney campaign advertisement, which attacked Mr. Pombo for voting against prosthetic devices for soldiers in Iraq.

But Roy Huskey Jr., a Vietnam veteran, said he had decided to support Mr. Pombo, saying he thought he was an honest man. “The Democrats and Republicans both took money from Abramoff,” Mr. Huskey said. “What do you expect? He’s a lobbyist.” JESSE McKINLEY
169 2006-11-06 Republicans, and the pharmaceutical industry, say that the benefit program is working and has cost less than initially projected. More than 38 million Medicare beneficiaries are enrolled in the program, and most say they are satisfied with their coverage, said Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services.

“It’s very clearly working,” Mr. Leavitt said. “We now have 90 percent of seniors in this country who have prescription drug coverage.”

But Wall Street analysts say they have little doubt that the benefit program, called Part D, has helped several big drug makers report record profits and exceed earnings forecasts made earlier in the year.

Companies have raised prices on many top-selling medicines by 6 percent or more this year, double the overall inflation rate. In some cases, drug makers have received price increases of as much as 20 percent for medicines that the government was already buying for people covered under the Medicaid program for the indigent. Medicare also pays more than the Veterans Administration, which runs its own benefit program.

“Part D was a good thing for almost everybody,” said Les Funtleyder, an industry analyst at Miller Tabak, a research firm in New York.

Drug makers have tried to play down their gains from the program because they do not want to be seen as profiteering in an election year, Mr. Funtleyder said. “You don’t want to draw too much attention to how good it’s been.”

Democrats claim the government could save as much as $190 billion over the next 10 years if it negotiated directly. Those savings could help shrink the “doughnut hole,” the gap in Part D coverage that forces many beneficiaries to pay about $3,000 a year for drugs, said Brendan Daly, a spokesman for Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House.

“What we’re planning to do is give Medicare a chance to negotiate prices, and we’d use some of the savings to close the doughnut hole,” Mr. Daly said.

Republicans say the savings estimates offered by the Democrats are vastly inflated. They note that Medicare has already cut its 10-year projection of the program’s cost by $117 billion, though the program is still expected to cost taxpayers $516 billion over the next decade. Republicans also note that, in independent surveys, most seniors say they are happy with the benefit.

“The competitive marketplace has saved much more money than anyone has ever anticipated,” said Leslie Norwalk, the deputy commissioner of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Ken Johnson, senior vice president at Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the main lobbying group for drug makers, said that allowing Medicare to negotiate directly would be unfair because the government had too much market power.

Also, the Veterans Administration and Medicare plans are not directly comparable, he said, because the average Medicare drug plan covers 4,300 medicines, while the V.A. covers only 1,300.

The structure of Part D is complex. Medicare does not directly provide coverage. Instead it subsidizes plans offered by private insurers. Insurers negotiate prices with drug makers and create menus of different plans, some with high premiums and broad drug coverage and others that offer basic coverage at low premiums. All plans have to follow certain basic rules, like offering at least two medicines in every drug category.

Medicare then calculates the cost of the average plan and pays every insurer a subsidy of about 75 percent of that cost. Beneficiaries cover the rest, with the amount they pay depending on what plan they choose.

For example, if the average plan costs $100 a month, Medicare will pay all plans a $75 subsidy for everyone who enrolls, and a person who enrolls in the average plan will pay $25. In most states, beneficiaries can choose from among 40 to 60 plans, Ms. Norwalk said.

Part D has raised profits for drug makers both by increasing the prices they receive and by encouraging beneficiaries to fill prescriptions they might otherwise have been unable to afford, analysts say.

The biggest gains have gone to companies that make drugs widely used by the Medicaid program, which covers the indigent. Poor people over 65, known as “dual eligibles,” previously received drugs through Medicaid.

Drug makers were legally required to give Medicaid a discount of at least 15 percent, and sometimes significantly more, from their list prices. Now Medicaid recipients over 65 are covered through the Part D program, which does not require the same discounts. As a result, drug makers are being paid as much as 20 percent more for the same drugs that they had already been providing to recipients under the Medicaid program.

The biggest gainer, analysts say, is Eli Lilly, which makes Zyprexa. Zyprexa, used to treat schizophrenia and other severe mental illnesses, is widely prescribed to Medicaid patients.

Lilly, the sixth-largest American drug maker, reported two weeks ago that its third-quarter sales had risen 7 percent, to $3.9 billion, and its profits were up 10 percent, to $874 million, compared with 2005. According to Lilly’s published review of the quarter, the sales gains resulted almost entirely from Lilly’s prices rising 11 percent in the United States, while actually falling in Europe and Japan.

“We are experiencing a one-time sales benefit resulting from a shift of certain low-income patients from Medicaid to Medicare,” a company spokeswoman, Terra Fox, wrote in an e-mail response to questions about Part D. Ms. Fox declined to quantify how much Lilly had gained from the shift.

But Lilly is hardly alone in benefiting. Pfizer, the world’s largest drug maker, said its sales soared 14 percent in the United States in the third quarter, while rising only 3 percent internationally. Over all, Pfizer said its profits more than doubled, to $3.4 billion from $1.6 billion, though part of the difference came from high one-time charges last year.

Pfizer did not disclose how much of the sales growth came from price increases and how much from new prescriptions, but earlier this year Pfizer raised the list prices of some of its biggest drugs by 5.5 percent or more, well above the inflation rate.

Tony Butler, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said both volume growth and price increases had driven the industry’s rising profits. But he said he did not expect major changes in the Part D plan even if the Democrats took over Congress, since President Bush would probably not sign any legislation that would allow Medicare to negotiate prices directly.

“It’s our belief that the White House will veto it,” he said.
170 2006-11-06 But in the meantime, the dispute shows that although commercial Web sites have made considerable strides in serving this small fraction of their customer base, there are still substantial difficulties on both sides of the screen.

“Web sites are more useful than they used to be, but there are still a few more hurdles than you’d like to have to go through,” said James Gashel, an executive director of the federation, based in Baltimore.

Mr. Gashel said that most sites accommodate screen-reading technology, which tells blind users the layout of a Web page and describes images, search prompts and other fields into which users can type information to find a product or complete a purchase. (The most popular screen-reading software, Jaws for Windows from Freedom Scientific, sells for around $900.)

When sites do not accommodate screen-reading software, the online shopping or browsing experience breaks down for the 200,000 or so of the nation’s 1.3 million people with vision disabilities who are online, according to Mr. Gashel.

Most online stores go to great lengths to make sure that their sites are accessible to people with disabilities, simply because it is good business to allow as many people as possible to shop. And online-shopping technology specialists say it is not so difficult or costly a task.

“It’s very straightforward to make a site accessible,” said Dayna Bateman, senior information architect at Fry Inc., which operates e-commerce Web sites on behalf of large retailers including Brookstone, Eddie Bauer and Spiegel.

Ms. Bateman said that the more software coding a Web site could offer to help screen readers and other technologies navigate a site, the more likely it was that the Web site would show up on search engine results, because Google, Yahoo and others looked to the same coding for clues about the Web page’s content.

“So it’s actually an advantage in the marketplace,” she said. “I just don’t think a lot of folks are schooled enough in accessibility to know that.”

For advocates of people with disabilities, the most effective tool for ensuring a smooth online experience has been the Americans with Disabilities Act. But because the law was signed in 1990, before the Web was in common use, its language offers little guidance on how to approach questions of online accessibility.

A variety of lawsuits based on Disabilities Act provisions have been brought against online companies, notably one brought by Mr. Gashel’s organization against AOL in 1999, but the suits were settled before judges could offer clear guidance on how, or whether, the law applied to Web sites.

In denying Target’s motion to dismiss the suit two months ago, Judge Marilyn Hall Patel of United States District Court in San Francisco held that the law’s accessibility requirements applied to all services offered by a place of public accommodation. Since Target’s physical stores are places of public accommodation, the ruling said, its online store must also be accessible or the company must offer equally effective alternatives.

So what about online-only Web merchants like Amazon.com, BlueNile, Drugstore.com and RedEnvelope as well as fast-growing young online companies like YouTube and MySpace?

“That issue is still up for grabs,” said Michael R. Masinter, a law professor who specializes in Disabilities Act and civil rights issues for Nova Southeastern University, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Mr. Masinter said the Target suit, since it involved an offline merchant’s online operations, would not address that issue.

The case, though, is important to Amazon, because it runs Target’s online store as it does those of a handful of other big offline merchants.

An Amazon spokeswoman, Patricia Smith, said that “as a matter of course we work cooperatively with all of our retail partners to develop and implement the tools and features they want incorporated onto their Web sites.” Amazon, she added, “is already generally usable for people with screen readers.” It has offered a text-only, streamlined site designed for such devices (amazon.com/access).

Mr. Masinter said one potentially thorny issue in the Target suit was whether phone services offered by online merchants were suitable substitutions for the Web site when the site did not work well for technologies like screen-reading software. Given the high cost of maintaining phone-based customer service operations, the question would be of particular interest to retailers and disabled people.

Companies in one emerging category of Internet commerce, online education, have the most ground to make up in adapting their offerings for the disabled, according to Jane Jarrow, president of Disability Access Information and Support, an education industry consultancy.

Most online-only schools, Ms. Jarrow said, “are oblivious to the fact that they have a significant issue here.” Many online-only schools rely on chat rooms, for instance, for class discussions, and screen-reading software does not function properly with chat rooms — nor can learning-disabled students often keep pace with the discussions.

The issue has become critical because many online-only schools became eligible this summer to receive federal student aid. But to get such funds, organizations must adhere to regulations in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which has been updated to say that all Web sites of groups receiving federal money must be accessible to people with disabilities.

Capella University, a Minneapolis-based institution known for online courses, employs a full-time disabilities specialist, who, among other things, has guided the school to avoid using online chat rooms for its courses. Some online schools follow similar approaches, but most do not, said Richard Allegra, director of professional development for the Association on Higher Education and Disability, an industry group.

“I think people are starting to understand their obligations to make their services accessible,” he said. “The question they have is, how to do that?”
171 2006-11-06 Some car chases in movies are so over the top that you might find yourself mentally trying to add up the cost of all the wreckage.

Now Progressive Direct, a unit of the Progressive Corporation, the nation’s third-largest auto insurer, will do the math for you. It teamed up with Universal Studios Home Entertainment to insert a running tally of the destruction into the recent release of “The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift” on high-definition DVD. As cars smack into one another in Tokyo, a display in a small window keeps track: “Roof repair: $209; taillights: $451; fender: $618.”

The calculator is labeled Progressive Direct: Insurance Damage Estimates. This digital gauge is the first in what Universal and other studios hope will be a stream of branded interactive features on their new DVDs. Like those released in the rival Blu-ray format by Disney, Fox and other studios, the HD DVD discs issued by Universal, Paramount and Warner Brothers have up to six times as much data capacity as standard DVDs.

The extra space gives the studios room not only for high-definition video and enhanced audio, but also for a bevy of interactive features, including games, picture-in-picture commentaries and Web links. In their constant search for more movie revenue, studios see these interactive features as a new source of money to tap.

“Product placement is hard because it doesn’t all fit, but this gives us new opportunities,” said Craig Kornblau, president of Universal Studios Home Entertainment. “In the early days, it was a movie on a disc. Now we can take it anywhere,” he said, referring to product mentions.
172 2006-11-06 That move stung Publicis, not least because it contributed to a decision by Mr. Lévy to drop out of a competition to keep the advertising account of SFR, a French cellphone network. Publicis also works for a rival cellular company, France Télécom’s Orange, but had been able to manage the potential conflict of interest by handling the Orange account through Marcel. But the departure of Mr. Raillard and Mr. Mokart has raised questions about the future of Marcel. Mr. Lévy, in a telephone interview, did not rule out closing the agency.

“As they are leaving, we have to revisit the situation and keep all options open,” he said.

The departures of Mr. Raillard, Mr. Mokart and Mr. Lambert may have been driven in part by their own motivations. The three left shortly after several recent appointments at Publicis that were seen as snubs to Mr. Lambert, in particular.

But agency executives in Paris say the rivalry between Mr. Lévy and Mr. Bolloré, whose investment in Havas prompted a series of leadership changes there, surely underpins the recent developments.

No one has forgotten that Mr. Bolloré built his stake in Aegis after Mr. Lévy signaled an interest in buying that company. While there has been speculation that Publicis might renew that pursuit, Mr. Lévy said that was unlikely, given Mr. Bolloré’s 29 percent stake.

“We have not changed our acquisition strategy,” Mr. Lévy said. “We are not currently negotiating anything big.”

Mr. Lévy described the appointments as a response to the rapid change in the ad industry, saying they were driven by a need for “innovative, flexible and highly responsive thinking.”

Other ad executives say they see a similar awakening in Paris, accompanied by still more personnel moves. A week before the latest news from Publicis, for instance, a team of top managers at BETC Euro RSCG, a Paris-based flagship agency owned by Havas, announced that they were leaving to join McCann Paris.

McCann has long been regarded as “la belle endormie,” or the sleeping beauty, of the Paris agency world, said one of the executives, Jérôme Guilbert, who is set to become general manager of McCann Paris. It serves McCann clients like Microsoft, Intel and Nestlé, thanks to its affiliation with McCann Worldgroup, but has originated relatively little business in the French market.

Now McCann’s New York-based parent, the Interpublic Group, wants to change that, Mr. Guilbert said. He is being joined in the move by eight other executives from BETC, as well as one from Marcel. Like Mr. Lévy, Mr. Guilbert said he saw larger forces behind the recent moves. Prodded by the side effects of the digital media revolution, he said, Paris agencies are becoming more dynamic and want to prove that they have the talent to compete internationally.

“It might be some kind of a tipping point for the French market,” Mr. Guilbert said.
173 2006-11-06 There is uneasiness in being a marginal Republican incumbent in a longtime Democratic district.      It surfaced, briefly, at a country restaurant on Sunday when a friendly voice told Representative Mike Sodrel to rest easy about Tuesday....
174 2006-11-06 DEMOCRATS AND MEDICARE -- Democrats, who have long charged that the drug industry is profiteering at taxpayers' expense, say they want to introduce legislation to revoke the law that bars Medicare from negotiating prices directly with drug makers ...
175 2006-11-06 Representative Michael G. Fitzpatrick, a Republican in his first term, came here on Sunday to show off what in any other year would have been the perfect symbol of why to re-elect a congressman: a cornfield that thanks largely to his efforts would...
176 2006-11-06 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    ACA Capital Holdings, an initial public offering of 12.2 million shares. Credit Suisse, J. P. Morgan and Bear, Stearns.     ActivBiotics, an initial public offering of ...
177 2006-11-06 NISSEN--Anton, October 5, 1938 to November 5, 2006. Dear Tony, you left us too soon, but when it was good, it was glorious. Wishing you good wine, fresh powder and no lift line forever. Love always, Myra and Thisbe...
178 2006-11-06 GURIN--George J. , PDGC/GT Members of Grand Lodge, Domain of NY, Knights of Pythias mourn the loss of this vital brother. We extend our condolences to his wife Ruth, children and grandchildren....
179 2006-11-06 In Darcy Burner's final rush of campaign advertisements, she compares her opponent to President Bush and says he is out of touch with his constituents on the war and social issues. Ms. Burner's opponent, Representative Dave Reichert, is running ad...
180 2006-11-07 There's been no mistaking Joe Lieberman's ad campaign over the last few weeks, with flyers, commercials and sandwich boards imploring voters to go to the bottom of the ballot to find the incumbent senator. But reports are coming in that indeed, Mr...
181 2006-11-07 Credit Suisse has named Keith Schappert, the former head of Federated Investment Advisory Companies, as chief executive of the Americas for its asset management division. Mr. Schappert will report to David Blumer, the chief executive of asset mana...
182 2006-11-07 With sales down and losses up, the Internet retailer Overstock.com warned yesterday that it might have to raise capital next year, and added that it did not expect to have its latest problems fixed before Christmas. The chief executive, Patrick M....
183 2006-11-07 Aozora Bank, a Japanese lender majority-owned by the private equity firm Cerberus, priced its stock-market listing near the low end of its target range on Monday at $3.2 billion, suggesting lukewarm demand for Japan's biggest initial public offeri...
184 2006-11-07 Two British hedge fund entrepreneurs are poised to reap millions through a stock market listing of their business. Hugh Willis and Mark Poole, the former J.P. Morgan employees and the founders of the British hedge fund BlueBay Asset Management, co...
185 2006-11-07 Anadarko Petroleum announced another asset sale on Tuesday in its continued effort to pay down debt stemming from its $21 billion acquisitions of Kerr-McGee and Western Gas Resources this year. Anadarko, rhe nation's largest independent oil and ga...
186 2006-11-07 Verizon Communications, the nation's No. 2 telecommunications company, is in advanced talks with YouTube to bring the Web site's videos to cellphones and television sets, the Wall Street Journal reported. The report said that such a deal could giv...
187 2006-11-07 National issues weighed more heavily than local ones in the decisions of voters Tuesday, according to interviews with voters leaving the polls.

The economy was the most important factor, followed closely by terrorism and the Iraq war, the voters said. In their votes for Congressional candidates, nearly three-quarters of voters said corruption and scandal in government were extremely important in deciding how to cast their ballots.

The majority of voters disapprove of the war in Iraq, according to the exit poll interviews, and believe the U.S. should withdraw some or all troops from Iraq.

While President Bush was a central character in the contentious midterm election campaign, only about one-third of those interviewed said they cast their votes as a way to show opposition to him. About the same number of voters said the president did not factor into their decision on Tuesday, while about one in five voters said they viewed their vote as a way to support the White House.

The president’s sagging popularity provided a theme for the campaign, and about six in 10 voters said they disapproved of how Mr. Bush is handling his job.
188 2006-11-07 WASHINGTON, Nov. 6 — New York State education officials improperly awarded more than $118 million in federal grants for early reading programs in New York City and elsewhere, and should return the money to Washington, according to an audit by the federal Education Department’s inspector general.

The audit asserted that New York gave the money to nine districts, including New York City, despite applications that fell short of the federal program’s standards.

In addition, the report said school officials in New York could not provide records to detail how they evaluated different school districts competing for federal dollars, and so could not justify the spending.

The audit is the latest to uncover problems with the federal Reading First program, a $1 billion-a-year effort by President Bush that awards large grants to states to buy reading textbooks and curriculums for public schools nationwide.

A report in September found that federal officials had steered states toward a handful of reading programs, in violation of the law, and cited apparent conflicts of interest on expert panels that advised states on their applications for Reading First grants.
189 2006-11-07 MERIDEN, Conn., Nov. 6 —Senator Joseph I. Lieberman walked into the center for the elderly at lunchtime Monday, grinning as he was greeted by a big, slobbery dog named Jesse.

This dog, Mr. Lieberman cheerily pointed out, had symbolically morphed from a bloodhound into a “ballothound,” supplied for the day by his staff — the corniest thing they could dream up to remind voters that the senator was on the bottom of the ballot, on his own party line, Connecticut for Lieberman.

Lest a last-minute controversy ensue, Mr. Lieberman clarified for reporters that the chocolate brown hound was not, in fact, the same dog he had used in his television commercials with the same theme, but rather an “uncle” of similar breed. No, not his personal pet, either.

And he conjured up one of his favorite political adages of late: “If you want a friend in politics — well, you know,” Mr. Lieberman chuckled. (The rest of the adage: “Get a dog.”)

Then he followed Mr. Lieberman to the stage of the Meriden Senior Center, where dozens of voters bent over plates of iceberg lettuce and soupy lasagna and sipped from cartons of milk.
190 2006-11-07 Morgan Stanley and Visa International said they had agreed to settle a long-running dispute over business in Europe. Under terms of the agreement, Visa permitted Morgan Stanley to join its credit card operation in Europe and Morgan Stanley withdrew an antitrust complaint against Visa. The dispute arose in 2004, when Visa refused to permit Morgan Stanley to join the Visa credit card system because the bank is a competitor in the United States, where it operates the Discover card. Morgan Stanley subsequently filed an antitrust complaint with the European Union. Jonathan Todd, a spokesman for the European Union, said its investigation would continue even though Morgan Stanley had withdrawn its complaint.
191 2006-11-07 SLUTSKAYA RETIRES FROM COMPETITION The former world and European champion Irina Slutskaya has announced her retirement from competitive figure skating, saying she “has had enough.”

“I’m not sure what I’m going to do in the next five minutes, but one thing is certain — I’m done with competitive skating,” Slutskaya, a 27-year-old Russian, was quoted by the All Sport news agency as saying yesterday. Slutskaya said she wanted to become a television talk-show host.

Slutskaya has not competed since the Turin Olympics in February. She was a favorite to win the women’s figure skating gold medal but finished a disappointing third. Slutskaya was also edged out of the Olympic gold medal at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games, finishing second behind the American Sarah Hughes. (REUTERS)

TRACY WILL MISS FINAL RACE Paul Tracy will miss the Champ Car World Series season finale because he has a broken shoulder. Forsythe Championship Racing announced yesterday that it had withdrawn Tracy’s car because the shoulder he broke last week in an all-terrain vehicle accident was not healing fast enough. The accident happened in Las Vegas, where Tracy lives.

Tracy, fifth in the Champ Car standings, is 9 points in front of his former teammate, Mario Dominguez, and 10 ahead of Bruno Junqueira. He said doctors recommended he stay out of a racecar for a few weeks to let the bone heal properly.
192 2006-11-07 The Army later decided that most of those costs were justified by the peculiar nature of the contract and the wartime conditions in which the company was operating and decided to reimburse KBR for them.

The new audit, commissioned by the oversight agency, the International Advisory and Monitoring Board of the Development Fund for Iraq, contains a mixed message for KBR and the American officials who administered its contracts in Iraq.

The audit firm, Crowe Chizek, based in Chicago, agreed that in the wartime conditions of Iraq, the Army was justified in reimbursing KBR for the original $200 million in disputed costs.

But the monitoring board said Crowe’s detailed findings on how KBR came up with $1.4 billion in charges on the contract between May 2003 and March 2004 raised new questions on hundreds of millions of dollars more.

In the chaos after the invasion, the contract was divided into various work orders that called for services like fuel deliveries and the repair of Iraqi oil infrastructure. The audit found, for example, that in an $871 million work order for delivering fuel to Iraq, just $112 million was actually spent on the fuel itself — gasoline, kerosene and liquid petroleum gas.

But $694 million was paid to a Kuwaiti subcontractor, “primarily for fuel transportation,” the audit says. The audit lays out a prime reason for those costs. KBR leased a fleet of tanker trucks from a well-connected Kuwaiti company, Altanmia, at a cost of up to $25,575 a month for each truck “irrespective of the number of deliveries” to Iraq, the audit says.

Because of deteriorating security in Iraq — and apparently because of severe limits on the number of armed escorts the Army could provide — KBR was able to run only two fuel convoy runs per month from Kuwait to Iraq and back, the audit says. That meant that from 200 to 1,800 trucks racked up charges as they sat idle for long stretches on the border.

The audits were posted Monday on the agency’s Web site with no formal announcement.

KBR and the agency seem to come to diametrically opposite conclusions on the significance of the audit.

Melissa Norcross, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in a statement that the findings showed that KBR “faced the challenge and fulfilled this mission at a fair and reasonable cost,” since Crowe concluded that the Army’s decision to reimburse much of the originally disputed $200 million was justified under the circumstances.

“These latest findings by an independent auditing firm provide additional validation of what KBR has said all along,” Ms. Norcross said. Ms. Norcross declined to respond to questions about whether the company agreed with Crowe’s detailed findings on the contract for leasing the tanker trucks. But those sections of the reports were clearly front and center for the monitoring agency, which pointed out in its own statement that transportation costs “were very high, in some cases as much as 86 percent of the total contract costs.”

The monitoring board said those findings caused it “to question the reasonableness of these costs and the adequacy of the administration of contracts.”

The monitoring board said it was also raising questions about whether $22 million in charges on other no-bid, or noncompetitive, contracts by other companies were unjustified and might have to be repaid to Iraq.

Early in the conflict, billions of dollars worth of contracts awarded to Western companies, including these, were paid for with Iraqi oil money and assets seized from Saddam Hussein’s government. Money from both those sources was placed in a set of accounts called the Development Fund for Iraq, and it was to oversee the fund that the United Nations created the monitoring agency.

When contacted about the new audit, Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform and who was among the first to raise questions about the fuel charges in 2003, said he believed that the American and Iraqi governments should now hold the company to account.

“We now know Halliburton paid $25,000 per month per truck to haul fuel into Iraq and got paid even when those trucks sat idle in Kuwait,” he said.

Messages left late Monday for staff members of Representative Thomas M. Davis III, a Virginia Republican who is chairman of the Government Reform Committee, were not returned.

But Frederick D. Barton, a director of the Postconflict Reconstruction Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the transportation charges appeared to reflect “grotesque mismanagement.”

Mr. Barton said the plan for trucking fuel into Iraq should have been revisited once security began to crumble. “It’s just infuriating, because the first level of competence would be, ‘Is this working?’ ”

“For this cost you probably could have flown the fuel in,” he said.

In a reflection of the danger of the operation, the audit says that 85 contract employees were injured and 21 died in the KBR operation. The company “lost more contractors than any other noncombatant organization in Iraq,” the audit said.

About 5,000 tankers were bringing fuel down from Turkey under the same contract, and because of the danger, Turkish drivers would sometime refuse to deliver fuel to Baghdad, according to a slide presentation on the findings that was presented in Paris. It was unclear whether these trucks were similarly idled at the border.

PARIS, Nov. 6 — Iraq is one of the world’s most corruption-ridden countries, according to a survey of 163 nations released Monday.

The survey, the Corruption Perceptions Index, was conducted by Transparency International in Berlin. The rankings were done by business people and country experts.

The United States ranked below 19 other countries, including Finland, Iceland and New Zealand, which tied as the least corrupt nations.

Only Haiti ranked lower than Iraq in the survey, which considered how much bribery, kickbacks and embezzlement occurred in countries studied. Iraq tied with Guinea and Myanmar for their corruption level.
193 2006-11-07 The video store will work much like that of Apple Computer, with some important differences. While users will be able to keep television shows, movies can be rented for only a limited period. The videos will not be playable on other devices and cannot be burned onto DVDs, but the online service will keep track of purchases so that users can log in to watch their videos on a friend’s Xbox.

Peter Moore, Microsoft’s corporate vice president for interactive entertainment, said that the price of standard-definition videos would be comparable to what competitors charged. Apple’s iTunes charges $1.99 for an episode of a television program.

High-definition content will cost more, Mr. Moore said, because of the costs involved in storing it and making it available for downloading. Purchases will be made with points that users can buy with a credit card or a gift certificate, or win in contests.

Mr. Moore said the service was partly intended to make the Xbox more versatile and therefore more attractive. “Direct revenue from this over the long term could be important,” Mr. Moore said. “But this is also another reason to buy an Xbox 360.”

New game consoles from Sony and Nintendo are due out this month, a year after the Xbox 360 went on sale, so extra features could help Microsoft keep up in the marketplace. Nintendo is concentrating on game play, but Sony says it also has other content in mind.

“We haven’t announced any content besides games,” said Dave Karraker, a spokesman for Sony Computer Entertainment America, “but all the executives have said that downloading other entertainment content is something the PlayStation 3 is capable of doing.”

Judging by the initial offerings, Xbox Live will be something of a cyberspace version of the Spike Channel, MTV Networks’ cable channel aimed at young men. It will sell episodes of “Star Trek,” remastered in high definition, as well as the “C.S.I.” shows, some music videos and cartoons from the Cartoon Network’s “Adult Swim.”

“The interesting thing is that we’re delivering the 18-to-34-year-olds who aren’t watching TV,” Mr. Moore said.

Microsoft has sold more than two million Xbox 360 consoles in the United States, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm. Most of those who buy the machines sign up for the Xbox Live service, which requires broadband Internet access and allows users to compete against each other.

Since the introduction of the Xbox 360 last year, the service has also sold simple video games and other material. This year, Microsoft started to hint at its ambitions for the Xbox Live service when it purchased a company that places advertising in video games and made an ad deal with Cadillac.

In the last few years, Microsoft has been pushing the idea of Media Center PCs, which are meant to sit in the living room and supply music and video to the stereo and the television set. But the concept has not caught on, in part because of the complexity of setting up and using these systems.

Mr. Enderle said that apart from simplicity, another feature that would set the XBox Live service apart is that it will be the first service to sell downloadable movies in high definition, at a resolution similar to or better than a DVD.

Until now, he said, most studios have been reluctant to allow cable channels to show movies in high definition for fear of piracy, but that would be less of a threat on XBox Live.

Early next year, Apple plans to introduce a product that, on a preliminary basis, it is calling iTV and that is intended to be a bridge between the computer and the television set.

But Microsoft will go into the video business with a different business model. Apple, most analysts maintain, does not make much money selling iTunes content, but makes up for that by selling more iPods, which are extremely profitable. Microsoft, which analysts say loses money on each Xbox 360 it sells, expects to make up for that by selling games — and now video.

“This is a razors-and-blades business,” Mr. Moore said. “I’ve taken the hit on the razor. And the ability of Microsoft to offer more blades gives consumers more choice and drives more revenue.”

The video downloads, especially those in high definition, will take up a lot of space. Microsoft says a one-hour television program in high definition will take up about 2 gigabytes of the console’s standard 20-gigabyte hard drive. Microsoft says the Xbox will play both movies and TV shows as they are being downloaded, although with larger files there will be a delay before playback starts, in contrast to the video-on-demand services offered by cable companies. High-definition movies will take an especially long while, depending on the speed of the Internet connection.
194 2006-11-07 TEHRAN, Nov. 6 (Reuters) — Iran is ready to share its missile systems with political allies and neighboring countries, the commander of the Revolutionary Guards said late Sunday after he showed off missiles.

The commander, Maj. Gen. Yahya Rahim-Safavi, also told the official Arabic-language Al Alam television that the Guards had thousands of troops trained for suicide missions in case Iran was threatened.

Iran’s ambassador to Lebanon, Mohammad Reza Sheibani, was quoted by Iran’s semiofficial Mehr News Agency on Sunday as saying Iran was ready to supply air defense systems to the Lebanese military.
195 2006-11-07 “You cannot tell people who are struggling to earn enough to eat that they need to reduce their emissions,” said Lu Xuedu, the deputy director general of Chinese Office of Global Environmental Affairs, at a conference two weeks ago.

Chinese officials did not respond to attempts by phone and fax to obtain a response to the agency’s forecast.

The energy agency also issued a sharp exhortation to all oil-consuming countries to rapidly curb their consumption or face higher prices and severe environmental damage, including changes in the global climate. But the agency acknowledged that any conservation would require a “considerable political push” from Western governments, as well as large developing economies like China and India, to reduce their use of hydrocarbons, including coal.

If nothing is done, global energy demand is projected to grow 53 percent by 2030, the energy agency said. Oil consumption is seen jumping to 116 million barrels a day, compared with 85 million barrels now, mostly because of increased oil consumption in developing countries.

Demand for coal, mostly for power generation, will rise 59 percent. As a result, energy-related carbon dioxide emissions will increase 55 percent, to 44.1 billion tons in 2030.

Environmental officials from around the world began meeting Monday in Nairobi to discuss a new agreement after the Kyoto Protocol. The talks, which are not expected to produce an agreement for at least a couple of years, are aimed partly at bringing the larger developing countries like China, India and Brazil under emission controls.

Developing countries have been wary of a deal. In addition to the United States, Australia has rejected the Kyoto Protocol, while Canada and Western European countries have found that their emissions have risen since 1990, instead of falling as the agreement required. The rise is particularly notable since 2000, according to fresh United Nations data.

Among developing countries, “there has been a loss of confidence, if I may say, since the developed countries, and particularly the largest ones, have not done more,” said Rajendra K. Pachauri, India’s best-known energy expert and the chairman of the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

“They’re going to shift the burden on us — that’s the popular view,” he said in a phone interview from New Delhi before flying to Nairobi.

The agency advocates improving the fuel efficiency of cars, expanding the use of nuclear power and financing biofuels research. It said those measures would more than pay for themselves by reducing oil imports.

“If we stick with business-as-usual policies, we are ending up with a world which is vulnerable, dirty and expensive,” Fatih Birol, the agency’s chief economist, said in an interview.

Investments needed to meet world growth in demand by 2030 are in the order of $20 trillion, the report estimated. But aggressive energy conservation policies could limit the increased oil demand to 103 million barrels a day by 2030. If that was done, carbon dioxide emissions would be 16 percent lower.

China has taken steps to improve energy conservation, though it has justified them mainly in terms of limiting reliance on imported oil and reducing air pollution. China has set fuel-economy requirements for new cars that are more stringent than the United States’, but less stringent than the European Union’s.

China has also begun requiring power companies to invest in larger coal-fired power plants instead of smaller power plants, which tend to require more coal per kilowatt-hour generated.

The energy agency took these steps into account in its prediction that China’s carbon dioxide emissions would overtake those of the United States some time in 2009.

Mr. Birol said consumer nations would face even greater risks to their supplies because of their growing reliance on energy imports from a smaller number of countries, mainly in the Middle East. Domestic oil production in Western countries will peak in the next five or six years and then decline.

Worldwide coal consumption has risen as much in the last three years as it had in the previous 23 years, Mr. Birol said. China accounts for 90 percent of the increase, the result of steeply rising demand for electricity that is mostly generated by coal-fired power plants.

India is responsible for about 8 percent of the increase in coal use, and the United States for most of the rest, Mr. Birol said. The agency’s forecast of China’s carbon dioxide emissions also reflects a revised prediction that China’s economy will grow 5.5 percent a year over the next quarter-century, slightly higher than previously expected, which will result in higher energy use.

“Strong policy action is needed to move the world onto a more sustainable growth path,” the agency said in a statement with the report.

Carbon dioxide accounts for 80 percent of the world’s manmade emissions of global warming gases. A variety of gases from industrial processes, plus methane from landfills and coal mines, account for the rest of these emissions; China’s emissions of those gases is growing rapidly as well.

The global warming effects of China’s rapidly increasing carbon dioxide emissions may have been masked until now by the country’s high emissions of sulfur compounds, which form particles that reflect the sun’s rays back into space. But the particles do not stay in the air nearly as long as the carbon dioxide, and China is now trying to reduce sulfur compounds because they cause acid rain and respiratory problems.

“Like the tortoise versus the hare, the carbon dioxide wins out in the long run,” said Stephen E. Schwartz, a senior atmospheric scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, N.Y.

China is not alone in relying more on coal. The United States is counting on coal to fill its growing energy needs. And while Western European nations have been the most enthusiastic advocates of measures to address global warming, they have also started moving back to coal.

Britain has reopened several coal-fired power plants and imported coal lately because generating electricity from coal is much cheaper now than using oil or natural gas. Japan and Germany have both embarked on ambitious construction programs for new coal-fired plants as well.

A British government spokesman acknowledged that British coal consumption was rising, but noted that British coal users were offsetting the increase in carbon dioxide emissions by paying energy users elsewhere in the European Union to cut emissions.

But critics of this carbon trading plan say that European countries have estimated existing carbon dioxide emissions so high that it is easy for companies to come in below those levels and then declare that they have reduced emissions and therefore have credits to sell.

Myron Ebell, the director of energy and global warming policy at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a research group in Washington that is critical of limits on global warming emissions and receives financing from energy companies, said China’s rapid rise would further hurt international efforts to rein in global warming gases.

“It’s not just China that’s blowing this thing apart,” he said. “I don’t see the Europeans cutting their emissions at all.”
196 2006-11-07 In a New Mexico district near the site of the first nuclear bomb test, Representative Heather A. Wilson, a Republican in a neck-and-neck race for re-election, has broadcast an incendiary television commercial against her Democratic challenger, Patricia Madrid. In the spot, images of fire mutate momentarily into floating fragments of text before dissolving again into flames: “North Korea conducts nuclear test. Reductions in military spending. The murder of any American anywhere on earth.” As a picture of the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong Il, gives way to an unflattering photo of Ms. Madrid, a narrator asks: “Can we trust her? With so much at stake? Does she have the experience we need? In a world like this, is she the one who will keep our families safe? Patricia Madrid. Don’t take the risk.”
197 2006-11-07 As a cashier in a Brooklyn deli, Ahmed Shaibi earned a modest income. But what he made he shared with his extended family in the United States and in his homeland, Yemen. So when he was fatally shot on Sunday during a robbery at the deli, his relatives were left not only grief-stricken but also worried about their financial futures.

Mr. Shaibi, 44, was shot once in the head at the store in Marine Park, possibly, the police said, after he resisted demands for money. After he was shot, the two men who entered the store, and a third who waited outside, ran, leaving the cash behind. No one had been arrested as of last night.

Mr. Shaibi’s stepmother, Muntaha Shaibi, mourned him yesterday, surrounded by about two dozen women and children in the one-bedroom apartment on East 15th Street near Avenue U that she shared with Mr. Shaibi and her three children, who were his half brothers. Mr. Shaibi’s father died about eight years ago, a relative said.

Seated in the living room on a small single bed that she said she had not left since receiving news of her stepson’s death, Ms. Shaibi, her head covered with a hijab, spoke in Arabic to a relative who translated her words into English. “When I heard the news I wished I were dead instead of him,” she said, adding that she and her children, as well as Mr. Shaibi’s wife, two children and his 2-month-old grandson in Yemen depended on his income to survive.

“Now I have no support, only him — what am I going to do?” she said.

Mason Mohamed, a second cousin of Mr. Shaibi, said he worked long hours for a relatively small amount of money, which nevertheless supported many people.

“By taking away his life, they affected a lot of other people,” he said. “It didn’t have to happen.”
198 2006-11-07 The warning that the company might need to access capital markets is in sharp contrast with the outlook the company was citing in the summer of 2005, when Mr. Byrne announced the company had spent $92 million repurchasing Overstock shares and bonds, adding: “I believe we did these transactions at prices favorable to the company and that we continue to have adequate cash to run and grow the business.”

The prices do not look very attractive now.

The bonds, for which Overstock paid about 85 percent of face value, last traded around 73 cents. The company paid around $39 a share for its stock.

After the share repurchase plan was begun, Gradient Analytics, a research firm critical of Overstock, warned in a May 2005 report that the company had undertaken to “gamble with shareholders’ funds” through options transactions involved in the repurchase. That report, which included a calculation on possible losses from the transaction that Overstock says was wrong, was cited when Overstock sued Gradient and Rocker Partners, a hedge fund manager, accusing them of fraudulent efforts to drive down the stock price.

In yesterday’s report, Overstock said its revenue for the third quarter was $158.7 million, down 6 percent from $169.3 million a year earlier, while its loss of $24.5 million, or $1.19 a share, was about twice the deficit of $12.4 million and 66 cents a year ago.

Notwithstanding that loss, the company reported a small positive cash flow from operations for the quarter. It appears to have done that by allowing its accounts payable — money it will later have to pay to suppliers — to rise rapidly.

The company, which a year ago had $100 million in working capital — defined as current assets less current liabilities — now has negative working capital of about $22 million.

One ratio that some analysts watch at retailers is that of inventories to accounts payable. A year ago, Overstock had $2.08 in inventories available for sale for every dollar of accounts payable that it owed. At the end of September, that figure was down to 68 cents. Inventories were much smaller than they had been, but accounts payable were much higher.

Another indicator of the company’s difficulties is a measure it uses, the average cost to the company of acquiring a new customer. It was $31.22 in the quarter, up from $22.92 in the same quarter of 2005 and $18.30 in the 2004 quarter.

Mr. Byrne has become a leading opponent of naked short selling — the practice of selling shares without either owning or borrowing them — although the suit against Gradient and Rocker does not accuse them of that practice. He has pushed for regulatory and legislative action against those who do that, and in the process has become a hero to some shareholders of heavily shorted companies.

In addressing the company’s first quarterly sales decline, Mr. Byrne said the company’s ad spending had raised awareness of its brand — to the point, he said, that it was comparable to Amazon.com — but had not done as much for sales as he had hoped. He said that some Internet-based advertising on other portals, like AOL or Yahoo, now was either unavailable or too expensive.

But he forecast better days.

“We’ve climbed out of ditches before,” he said.
199 2006-11-07 An executive close to Mr. Ailes said his position was that Mr. Murdoch alone would decide when the channel gets the go-ahead. But Mr. Ailes has executives working on the channel to be ready for the say-so from Mr. Murdoch once a big enough potential audience is secured.

Negotiations to carry the channel beyond Comcast and DirecTV may be complicated by talks to renew the Fox News Channels’ agreements with cable companies around the nation. Fox News, which recently celebrated its 10th anniversary, has sought substantial fee increases to reflect its considerable growth and increased influence since starting. During that time, Fox News surpassed CNN and MSNBC in total viewers.

But at Fox News Channel, the average audience per day declined to 800,000 in the period from Sept. 19 to Oct. 30, compared with 1.06 million in the period in 2005, according to Nielsen Media Research.

At CNBC, the business channel owned by NBC Universal that would be the chief rival of a Fox business channel, the daily audience increased to 175,000 from 157,000 during the period.

Two years ago, a business news offshoot of CNN called CNNfn was shut.

Still, that has not dissuaded Mr. Murdoch, who has long coveted a business channel that could combine the distinct Fox sensibility with the smaller but lucrative audience that CNBC now has to itself.

Mr. Murdoch takes pride in his ability to move into markets with entrenched players who already dominate — just as he did with the Fox TV network and Fox News Channel.

He has also shown that he can change priorities and direction quickly, and he could still put the brakes on a business channel.

He pursued DirecTV for years before acquiring it three years ago, for example, but in recent weeks he has been in talks to sell his stake to the billionaire John C. Malone in exchange for shares Mr. Malone holds in News Corporation.

Mr. Ailes, who was given oversight of Fox’s broadcast station group last year, has also been busy trying to reinvigorate prime-time programming at 10 of the company’s stations that were part of the former UPN and WB networks. The stations now show prime-time programming from a new network created by Fox, MyNetworkTV, that has not attracted large audiences in its first weeks.

The people with knowledge of the Comcast deal asked not to be identified, because the talks are sensitive. But they said Comcast has not yet signed a renewal for Fox News and its arrangement for the new business channel is separate.
200 2006-11-07 In the 1984 film “Amadeus,” the jealous composer Antonio Salieri, portrayed by F. Murray Abraham, muses on Mozart’s ability to produce music of “absolute, inimitable beauty” effortlessly. Mr. Abraham opened the New York debut concert of the Zukerman ChamberPlayers at the 92nd Street Y on Sunday with a reading from that despairing soliloquy.

“Amadeus” of course took liberties with the truth. But perhaps Salieri can take posthumous comfort because while Mozart’s genius may have seemed effortless, his music requires a supreme effort to play. The Zukerman Players did well, for the most part, in their performance of Mozart’s String Quintet in G minor (K. 516), which began the musical part of the program.

Pinchas Zukerman, the esteemed 58-year-old violinist and conductor, formed his chamber players during the 2002-3 season with four protégés decades younger than himself: Jessica Linnebach, a violinist; Jethro Marks and Ashan Pillai, violists; and Amanda Forsyth, a cellist, who is also his wife. It is an unusual ensemble both because of the age and fame gap between the eminent, white-haired Mr. Zukerman and his lesser-known colleagues, and also because string quintets are founded far less frequently than quartets.

String quintets were also relatively rare when Mozart wrote his restless and angst-ridden Quintet in G minor in 1787, a work boasting enough emotional potency, symphonic breadth and technical and contrapuntal mastery to make Salieri writhe with envy. There was no obvious disparity of talent among the Zukerman Players during their assured, if restrained, performance, which took place with surprisingly little eye contact.

But if during the Mozart the Zukerman Players sometimes lacked the conviction of a well-established group, they played Brahms’s lushly romantic String Quintet No. 2 in G (Op. 111), which concluded the program, with an energy that matched the vigor of the runners competing in the New York City Marathon outside.
201 2006-11-07 Jasmine’s brothers — Anthony Flores, 4; Andy Flores, 5; and Fernando Flores Jr., 10 — take turns watching Jasmine when they are not doing their schoolwork. They are all healthy.

Jasmine’s father, Fernando Flores Sr., 33, a baker, lost jobs because he watched over Jasmine and did not show up for work on time, Ms. Saavedra said, adding that he had recently sought counseling for depression.

Ms. Saavedra had to quit her job as a seamstress in the garment district to take Jasmine to numerous doctors’ appointments and consult with nurses and therapists. On a good day, Jasmine may tire easily and want to sleep all the time.

On bad days, she has trouble breathing, especially when eating or crying. She weighs 21 pounds; a girl her age should weigh about 30 pounds, or more. Even so, her face appears puffy and her limbs swollen, like a newborn. Jasmine sweats often and her pigtails are damp and her skin cool and moist. In addition to her other medical problems, she is being treated for ruptures in the small veins of her eyes that doctors say were caused by the stress of her illness.

When Jasmine cries, her mother’s lower lip begins to tremble.

In her short life, Jasmine has had two major operations to increase circulation in her heart, and she was expected to need at least one more. With all of the family’s problems, including the parents’ spotty employment, the typical challenges of housing, clothing and feeding four children have grown even larger. That’s why the family sought help and found some relief from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The family’s clean, tidy apartment in the Tremont section of the Bronx costs $743 a month and has two small bedrooms. Seven people live there.

One bedroom is for the three boys, who use bunk beds, and for Saul Flores, Mr. Flores’s brother. He sleeps during the day, while the boys are at school, and works at night.

The other bedroom and the tiny living room next to it are for Jasmine and her parents.

In August, the family turned to Mosholu-Montefiore Community Center in the north Bronx, a beneficiary agency of the UJA-Federation of New York, and met Ms. Colon, a social worker at Mosholu. The UJA-Federation, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, gave the family $2,000 from the fund.

With the money they were able to buy a small dining room table about the size of a large suitcase, a kitchen cabinet, and a new mattress.

Mr. Flores and Ms. Saavedra are in and out of work (he is currently working as a grocery store clerk). Despite careful shopping, said Ms. Colon, the social worker, “The lion is always at the door.”

As Jasmine grows older, she needs physical therapy so that she can learn to use her hands and walk properly and a speech therapist so she can develop language skills, which have been slowed by the pain of the heart disease.

The anxiety over Jasmine’s health problems seems to have slowed the language skills of Andy, the 5-year-old, and he, too, is undergoing therapy.

The family has other needs, like winter coats and shoes. But Fernando Jr., the eldest boy, fidgeted during a recent visit as the adults discussed the family’s needs.

Ms. Colon noticed the restlessness and asked young Fernando what he thought. He smiled and looked at the floor and was slow to answer. Go on, his mother coaxed. Go on, Ms. Colon said again.

“A computer,” he said, in English, with a smile. “And a printer. For book reports.”
202 2006-11-07 Maribel Saavedra, 30, is a young mother in the Bronx who has passed on her ready smile to three of her four children.     Her fourth, Jasmine, does not often smile....
203 2006-11-07 Ryanair Holdings, the large European discount airline, said second-quarter profit rose 24 percent as increasing numbers of passengers offset higher fuel costs, prompting the chief executive, Michael O'Leary, left, to raise the company's earnings f...
204 2006-11-07 SIGNS OF A HOUSING BUST -- The striking swing from seller's market to buyer's market in Phoenix tells the tale of a housing bonanza turned bust. The number of unsold homes in the area has soared to almost 46,000 from just a few thousand in early 2...
205 2006-11-07 In a New Mexico district near the site of the first nuclear bomb test, Representative Heather A. Wilson, a Republican in a neck-and-neck race for re-election, has broadcast an incendiary television commercial against her Democratic challenger, Pat...
206 2006-11-07 India has approved 32 foreign investment proposals worth 2.5 billion rupees ($56 million), the largest an investment of 1.4 billion rupees ($31 million) by the Walt Disney Company in United Home Entertainment, a leading entertainment company that ...
207 2006-11-07 McDonald's India said it planned to build 15 restaurants in the Eastern Indian city of Calcutta, home to the country's only communist government, in the next five years. ''In the past few years, Kolkata has witnessed very encouraging economic grow...
208 2006-11-08 The latest in AOL's recent spate of small acquisitions is Relegence, a privately held provider of financial news and information. Terms were not disclosed, but Globes, a financial daily in Israel, reported that the deal was worth as much as $65 mi...
209 2006-11-08 Kate Spade is no bargain. That was the strong suggestion of Lizabeth Dunn, a Prudential Equity Group analyst who raised questions about Liz Claiborne's agreement to buy the maker of high-end handbags for $124 million, including debt. While calling...
210 2006-11-08 The flow of Wall Street cash into Hollywood in recent years, particularly the cash that comes from hedge funds, is "all too fast," a veteran talent agent told The New York Observer. So fast that it is changing the culture of moviemaking, an articl...
211 2006-11-08 Dean Foods said it had found administrative errors in stock options grants in 1997 and 2000. Dean, which said last week the Securities and Exchange Commission was conducting an informal inquiry into its stock options practices, took a non-cash cha...
212 2006-11-08 The drug maker Merck faces a potential $5.58 billion in tax liabilities in the United States and Canada related to a number of disputes over accounting for past transactions, the company said in a filing Tuesday. Merck said in the filing with the ...
213 2006-11-08 Nortel Networks, the telecommunications equipment maker in the midst of a prolonged restructuring, said Tuesday that it planned to complete a 1-for-10 reverse stock split by the end of the month. Go to Article from The New York Times »...
214 2006-11-08 Late last year, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, John J. Mack, said he wanted to expand into hedge funds. He has delivered: the investment bank spent almost $1 billion buying stakes in three hedge-fund management firms last week. Even for an orga...
215 2006-11-08 The London Stock Exchange refused on Wednesday to rule out making its own approach to the Nasdaq Stock Market about a possible collaboration or joint venture. Announcing a 60 percent surge in first-half operating profit, the London exchange's chie...
216 2006-11-08 The upset on Capitol Hill has many in the financial-services industry asking one question: What will Barney Frank do? With the Democrats winning back control of the House in Tuesday's elections, Mr. Frank, who has long represented a district in su...
217 2006-11-08 Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie on a family vacation. Gwyneth Paltrow on her way to yoga class. Michael Douglas in Barbados sporting fresh, slightly bloody surgical scars in front of his ears.

Paparazzi pictures obviously fascinate. The question is whether we really want to learn more about the people on the other side of the telephoto lens.

We could do with a little less of “Paparazzi,” a documentary on BBC America tonight. Gossip is not an obscure, misunderstood industry, and the excesses are well known, particularly since the death of Princess Diana.

Mel Gibson even produced a movie, “Paparazzi,” about a film star who decides to wreak “Death Wish”-style revenge on the shutterbugs who hurt his family.

It’s not a genteel milieu. And, naturally, the most successful big-name hunter in the jungle sport of celebrity stalking is a meaty, foul-mouthed Australian named Darryn Lyons, the founder of Big Pictures, a photo agency. A millionaire and self-styled impresario, Mr. Lyons sports a blue mohawk and says “giddy up” to rally his lads. The lads call one another “mate.”

Mr. Lyons and his crack team were followed by a BBC film crew for a year as they stalked models, British soccer players and movie stars. And while the braggadocio might make for amusing company over one drink in the airport lounge, an entire documentary is like being strapped in next to one of the lads for the entire 21-hour flight to Sydney.

The tricks of the trade are pretty basic: follow the famous face on foot, on motorcycle, by car and even on rented yacht, and never relent. What is a bit more striking is the intensity and self-importance of these quick-shot artists, who sulk when the home office doesn’t appreciate their hard work and feel wounded when a celebrity refuses to cooperate. When Sienna Miller jostles the pack and tells the lads to leave her alone, a burly British photographer with a crew cut complains that she used “language that is not really befitting a boho British actress.”
218 2006-11-08 Claire McCaskill, the Democratic candidate and state auditor, surfaced to declare that the voters of Missouri had chosen her, that they had spoken, and that they had chosen change....
219 2006-11-08 Senator George Allen's re-election campaign is down to the wire, and may wind up in a recount....
220 2006-11-08 Preliminary results from rural precincts showed Mr. Talent with a sizable lead over Ms. McCaskill. But the first groans were emitted in the Talent camp at a Hilton Hotel in suburban Frontenac around 11 p.m., when a campaign official announced that largely Democratic urban centers of Kansas City and St. Louis had not yet reported their votes, which portended bad things for the Republicans.

After his concession, Mr. Talent tried to comfort his supporters. “It was not for lack of support and vigor from you,” he said. “You did a very good job, but the headwind was very stiff this year.”

The first victorious roars were let loose at Ms. McCaskill’s gathering at the Renaissance Grand Hotel in downtown St. Louis at 11:45 p.m., when a large chunk of the city’s ballots finally registered and brought both candidates to 48 percent of the votes.

“It’s turning!” said Tony Wyche, a consultant to the McCaskill campaign staff, monitoring county-by-county results on his laptop. “Turing the right way.”

Chants of “Claire, Claire, Claire!” began shortly thereafter, and the ballroom reverberated with a thunderous roar when Ms. McCaskill took the lead around midnight.

The race here captivated not only Missouri voters but election-watchers, party officials and commentators nationwide because it was one of six in the country where Democrats saw the possibility of picking up a Republican seat to win control of the Senate. The contest had been a statistical dead heat since Labor Day.

Many other races were close, but they tended to lean in favor of a particular party as election day grew near. Not so here. At times over the last weeks, Mr. Talent had been in the lead and showing strong momentum only to lose ground, seemingly overnight, to Ms. McCaskill, who would then do the same.

Still, since Labor Day, neither candidate was ever ahead by more than three percentage points in any credible poll. Early on, it was unclear what impact a statewide ballot measure on stem cell research would have on the race. A defining issue of the campaign at first, it faded a bit from the spotlight in the fall only to resurface when the actor Michael J. Fox threw his support behind Ms. McCaskill, who favors the research, in a commercial that showed the toll Parkinson’s disease had taken on him.

The stem cell initiative appeared to be winning, with 51 percent support after 94 percent of precincts reported results.

If passed, the ballot measure would guarantee that any stem cell research that is legal under federal law could be performed in Missouri. Mr. Talent came out against the measure at the strong urging of Christian conservatives, but only after he tried to avoid taking a position at all.

Some political analysts say his half-hearted rejection of the measure helped Ms. McCaskill. Independent and undecided voters make up a tiny sliver of the state’s electorate, and they were largely the focus of Mr. Talent’s and Ms. McCaskill’s campaigns, as each crossed over into the other’s traditional base to find an advantage, however small, with upbeat appeals and personal attacks.

Mr. Talent, known for his conservative views and close association to the Bush administration, courted black voters in St. Louis and Kansas City. Ms. McCaskill, who narrowly lost a race for governor in 2004 because of weak support in rural areas, traveled in an recreational vehicle through small towns, reminding voters that she was “a daughter of rural Missouri,” born in Rolla, Mo., and raised, for part of her childhood, near her family’s feed mill.
221 2006-11-08 No matter what the economic climate, great works of art bring great prices at auction. But when a sale of Impressionist and modern art that can best be described as a mixed bag brings strong prices — as the standing-room-only crowd at Sotheby’s witnessed last night — it shows just how many new buyers don’t seem to mind that works had been on the market in the not too distant past.

“People are feeling very optimistic,” said Alberto Mugrabi, a Manhattan dealer, as the sale was coming to an end. “The sale did far better than anyone thought it would.”

Throughout the evening, paintings by masters like Cézanne, Modigliani and Matisse that had been up at auction in recent years not only sold but also brought solid prices. Although there were few fireworks and only an occasional bidding war, the evening totaled $238.6 million, Sotheby’s highest auction total since spring 1990 and right in the middle of its estimate, $219 million to $299 million. Of the 83 lots, only 11 went unsold.

Savvy dealers like William Acquavella were betting on market’s good health. Mr. Acquavella was the seller of the evening’s prize painting and the most expensive work of the evening: a 1895 Cézanne, “Still Life With Fruits and Ginger Jar,” one of the last still lifes by the artist still in private hands. It was exhibited in his first retrospective in Paris the year it was painted and has been owned by several other famous dealers, among them Ambroise Vollard and Bruno Cassirer. Mr. Acquavella had bought it at Christie’s in London six years ago for $18.1 million; last night it was expected to bring $28 million to $35 million and ended up going to an unidentified telephone bidder for $36.9 million. Mr. Acquavella had astutely negotiated a guarantee — an undisclosed minimum price promised to the seller regardless of a sale’s outcome — that experts said was more than $30 million.
222 2006-11-08 Over and over, voters said they were unhappy with the Iraq war, even as they disagreed on the course of action or who is at fault. Voters expressed discontent over the economy, the cost of health care, gasoline prices and illegal immigration.

Many said they yearned for government to overcome what they perceived as corruption, extremism and partisanship.

Democrats brimmed with optimism in places where they were once resigned to losing, like Glen Ellyn, Ill., a Republican stronghold west of Chicago that drew international attention when Tammy Duckworth, a wounded Iraq war veteran, decided to try to win the Congressional seat as a Democrat.

“Go back an election cycle, and you practically didn’t need to show up,” Tracy Mehr, 44, a high school counselor, said. “You knew which way it was going. It was simply Republican. But I’ve lived here a few years now, and I at first thought it would be the same. But I’m thrilled. It’s a contest, and Tammy Duckworth has a real shot at making a difference, not only here, but on the national level, as well.”

Here in the 11th Congressional District, the race was as pure a measure as any of voter disaffection. Neither candidate has been hurt by a major scandal or gaffe. Both are conservative on social issues, against same-sex marriage and abortion rights.

Mr. Shuler, a former professional football player and a wealthy real estate broker, is an evangelical Christian. Mr. Taylor is a wealthy banker who took office in 1991. Race is not a part of the equation. The two candidates are white in an overwhelmingly white district.

Polls made the contest too close to call.

Yet not everyone favoring change voted against Mr. Taylor. Kevin Cole, a Democrat, and his mother, Patsy, a Republican, said they supported him.

“I hope that things will change in Washington because I think it’s really bad,” Ms. Cole said. “I don’t like the war.”

But, she added, “I don’t see anything wrong that Charles Taylor has done.”

Many voters, however, were willing to take a chance on unknown quantities.

In St. Louis, Floyd Butcher said he was not aligned with either party but would vote for Claire C. McCaskill, the Democratic challenger to Senator Jim Talent.

“I’m sick of hearing Talent lie about McCaskill and sick of hearing McCaskill lie about Talent,” Mr. Butcher said. “But we’ve had Talent for years now and we know that he did not do a lot for us. McCaskill may be just as bad, but at least we don’t know that for a fact.”

In the closely watched Senate race in Tennessee, Iraq was a central issue.

“I think we should pull out,” said Sara Langer, an optometry student who voted for the Democrat, Harold E. Ford Jr., at a fire station north of downtown Memphis. “This is, like, our highest month of casualties. It’s a civil war over there.”

Even some Republicans said they were concerned enough about Iraq to change their habits.

“I don’t think we’re fighting the war correctly,” Steve Kite-Powell, a Republican lawyer, said. “We’re in a quagmire.”

At first leaning toward the Republican Senate candidate, Bob Corker, Mr. Kite-Powell wound up voting for Mr. Ford.

Voters across the spectrum voiced disgust on one issue that they could not vote on, the tone of political advertisements and debates, which many said had plumbed new depths.

In St. Petersburg, Fla., one voter said she was so sick of campaign advertisements that the Christmas onslaught would be a relief.

Another voter, in Tempe, Ariz., said the barrage had done nothing to help her decide.

“They mixed me up more than anything,” the voter, Carolyn Smith, 26, said. “It was one after the other, and I don’t remember it being so mean, everybody saying everybody else is a liar.”

Yet some voters conceded that they were influenced by negative commercials like one in Florida that criticized Representative Jim Davis, the Democratic candidate for governor, for absenteeism in Congress, showing an empty desk chair rolling around Washington.

“That ad that they showed about Jim Davis really got to me,” Dorothea Williams, 50, said as she voted at a cultural arts center in Miami. “I asked myself: ‘Is this true? Did he do that? Is he really not there?’ ”

Ms. Williams declined to say for whom she had voted.

But, she added, “It really did sway my vote, let me put it that way.”

In battleground states like Virginia, where Senator George Allen fought to hold off his Democratic challenger, Jim Webb, and Missouri, with the Talent-McCaskill race, officials said turnout was heavier than predicted.

In Tennessee, nearly a quarter of registered voters cast ballots early, representing nearly a 50 percent increase over 2002.

A spokeswoman for the secretary of state’s office in Missouri, Stacie Temple, said turnout was very heavy.

“We think we’ll probably exceed the 49 percent turnout we projected,” Ms. Temple said.

In other states, though, interest seemed to flag. Here in North Carolina, the Taylor-Shuler race was a hot spot in a showing so poor that elections analysts predicted that the state would hit a record low at 40 percent. The analysts attributed the lack of participation to disgust with negative campaign tactics and rainy weather.

In Flat Creek, the Democratic captain, Stewart Hamlin, said he had been working at the polls for more than 10 years.

“It’s as heavy as I’ve ever seen it,” Mr. Hamlin said.

By contrast, Mississippi, with no close races, expected 30 percent of registered voters to show up.

Despite what many voters characterized as overload, it was clear in some interviews that recent events had made their mark.

In Florida, Jeffery Gaus, 46, said he voted for Mr. Davis for governor although he was impressed that the Republican candidate, Charlie Crist, skipped a rally on Monday with Mr. Bush in Pensacola.

“What happened yesterday when Crist snubbed the president speaks volumes about how people in this country are fed up with the president and the war,” Mr. Gaus said. “He doesn’t have a plan for getting us out of Iraq.”

Several voters said the comments of Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, portrayed by Republicans as an insult to enlisted troops, had helped them make up their minds.

In a wealthy suburb south of Nashville, Mr. Kerry’s remarks were decisive for Larry Deters, 66, who ran a Veterans’ Administration hospital for 15 years.

“I still had a few questions up until that point, but that really bothered me,” Mr. Deters said.

Several habitual Republican voters at his polling place said they intended to switch to Democrats, but Mr. Deters said he ultimately decided to back Mr. Corker for Senate, saying Mr. Ford was “trying a little too hard to be a conservative.”

“He was trying too hard to portray himself as something that his voting record didn’t really indicate,” Mr. Deters said. “I guess I would have been more inclined to vote for him if he’d been a little more straightforward on his feelings.”
223 2006-11-08 Human Rights Watch, one of the most prominent and critical advocacy organizations in Russia, was re-registered under a new law that forced it and dozens of others to suspend operations last month.
224 2006-11-08 A top European trade official called on China to live up to its status as a major economy by opening its markets wider to foreign competition, while Beijing accused Europe of protectionism for imposing antidumping duties on shoe imports. The European Union trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, left, was visiting Beijing as disputes have risen over trade in auto parts, shoes and other goods. He applauded China’s progress in meeting market-opening commitments, but said Beijing must do more in areas like fighting product piracy. Mr. Mandelson met later with the Chinese commerce minister, Bo Xilai, and they announced a series of initiatives including setting up a joint trade Web site and more official contacts to settle disputes. Mr. Bo criticized the decision by the European Union, along with the United States, to file a World Trade Organization complaint over China’s tariffs on auto parts imports and to impose antidumping duties on Chinese shoes.
225 2006-11-08 Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner, said that a final determination of the cause of death would require further study. She said she was not contradicting what Ms. DeLozier said in court, but just pointing out that additional scientific analysis was necessary.

“As we frequently do in homicide investigations, we are providing guidance to the police and the prosecutors to enable them to determine what further steps they may need to take,” she said. She said that work may be completed as soon as today.

A veteran homicide investigator, who was not authorized to comment on the case and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said: “It’s really kind of bizarre. Usually, if it’s something they’re going to try to hide, they’re pretty sure the person is dead.

“And he almost got away with it, too,” the investigator said.

Mr. Pillco, a construction worker who speaks little English, entered no plea, and did not utter a word before Judge Soloff. A slight man, dressed in jeans, sneakers and a sweatshirt, he was remanded without bail to Rikers Island.

He was represented at the arraignment by Thomas Klein, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society. After the hearing, Mr. Klein declined to comment on the case.

The court appearance came six days after the body of Ms. Shelly, who was also a screenwriter and director, was found by her husband in the bathroom of a West Village apartment that she used as an office. A bedsheet had been tied around her neck, and she had been hanged from a shower curtain rod.

Investigators at first suspected suicide, a theory rejected by Ms. Shelly’s family and friends, who said that her life was filled with promise and that she was devoted to her 3-year-old daughter.

Ultimately, investigators said, Mr. Pillco admitted under questioning by detectives that he had been working in a third-floor apartment beneath Ms. Shelly’s, that she had complained about construction noise, and that their confrontation had convulsed into violence, ending in Ms. Shelly’s death.

Yesterday, details of the case emerged, including the chain of events that detectives say was described to them by Mr. Pillco. They include Mr. Pillco’s account of being slapped by Ms. Shelly and pleading with her not to call the police before he hit her in the face, dragged her into the bathroom and strung her from the shower curtain rod.

Acquaintances of Mr. Pillco, who had been living in Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, described him as an energetic and respectful young man who was struggling with the physical rigors of his job and the disorientation of his illegal immigrant status.

“I still don’t think he could do something like this,” said Frank Diaz, a resident of the building on Prospect Avenue where Mr. Pillco lived in a cramped basement space with two other Ecuadorean construction workers.

Ms. Shelly, a native of Queens, had appeared in several films, including “The Unbelievable Truth,” “Trust” and “Factotum,” and used the apartment where she was killed, at 15 Abingdon Square, as a base for film writing and other projects.

According to a law enforcement official, detectives responding to the scene of the killing last Wednesday saw no signs of a struggle, but seized upon one clue that could not be explained: a footprint on the cover of a toilet beneath the curtain rod where Ms. Shelly had been hanged.

The official said detectives thought the footprint might have been left by a firefighter or emergency responder, but no match could be found. After canvassing the building, and finding that the apartment below Ms. Shelly’s was being renovated, he said, the detectives encountered a worker who said he thought Mr. Pillco had been working there.

After tracking down Mr. Pillco, he said, the detectives found a Reebok sneaker in his apartment that matched the crime scene footprint, and brought him in for questioning.

According to Mr. Pillco’s account, the police official said, the confrontation with Ms. Shelly began about 9:30 a.m. after she went downstairs to complain about the noise. Sharp words were exchanged, and Mr. Pillco threw a hammer, but it did not hit Ms. Shelly, the official said.

Then, Ms. Shelly stormed up the stairs with Mr. Pillco following her, warning her not to call the police. At her door, Mr. Pillco grabbed Ms. Shelly, and she responded by slapping him in the face, the official said he told investigators.

When Mr. Pillco struck back, she fell, banging her head and losing consciousness. Then, Mr. Pillco took her into the bathroom and used a bedsheet to hang her, the official said.

“He tries to stage this thing because he is trying to make it go away,” the official said.

The police said yesterday that they did not believe that Mr. Pillco had a criminal record in Ecuador.

According to acquaintances in Brooklyn, Mr. Pillco was working for a construction contractor, Louis Hernandez, who owns the Prospect Avenue apartment building. The acquaintances said Mr. Pillco shared his basement quarters with his brother and a cousin.

They said the quarters had been hastily vacated, and all beds and furniture removed, before dawn on Monday. The two men who had lived with Mr. Pillco, also illegal immigrants from Ecuador, have not been seen since, the acquaintances said, apparently fearing they would be deported if they spoke to the police.

Mr. Hernandez, in a statement provided by a member of his staff, said yesterday that Mr. Pillco had been working for him “for the past few months as a construction helper.”

He said that Mr. Pillco, a part-time employee, and had demonstrated “respectful, well-mannered, decent and responsible behavior.”

Mr. Hernandez’s statement appeared to include an admission that he had illegally employed an undocumented immigrant. Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said he could not comment on the case.
226 2006-11-08 The heads of the six largest auditing firms in the world issued a call for relaxed liability standards for their companies yesterday, in what appears to be the start of a campaign to protect their franchises while reducing the risk that bad audits could bankrupt one or more of them.

In a report, the executives said that they supported efforts to standardize accounting and auditing standards around the world and that eventually, “a new business reporting model” should be developed that would provide better financial information more rapidly.

But while the report, entitled “Serving Global Capital Markets and the Global Economy,” offered little detail in that area, it was most detailed in its warnings that auditor liability needed to be restricted and in mounting the arguments for that outcome.

It did not offer specific proposals on how liability could be restricted while continuing to protect investors if auditors failed to do a conscientious job. Instead, it pointed to a restriction on auditor liability as being essential to solve many problems of the industry, and suggested that if investors were worried about fraud, they should be willing to pay for more detailed and more expensive audits than those prepared now.

“Our firms are not and can never be the insurers of last resort for the capital markets,” the report said. It cited an “expectations gap” between what investors wanted from an audit in detecting fraud “and what audit networks are actually capable of doing, at the prices that companies or investors are willing to pay for audits.”
227 2006-11-08 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 7 (Reuters) — The Walt Disney Company announced on Tuesday that its Buena Vista Game unit would start a video game studio that would focus on creating new and Disney-inspired titles for Nintendo’s hand-held DS player and the Wii console.

Scott Novis, who led the Rainbow Studios team that developed the popular video game based on the Disney Pixar film “Cars,” was chosen to be the vice president and general manager for Disney’s new Fall Line Studio, based in Salt Lake City.

Nintendo’s Wii console, which features a novel motion-sensitive controller, has captivated gaming enthusiasts and is set to make its debut in the United States on Nov. 19.

The Japanese game company has also made a splash with its DS players, which has two screens, opens like a book and allows players to control play with a stylus.

Nintendo predicted in late October that it would sell 20 million DS units during the fiscal year that ends in March.
228 2006-11-08 OTTAWA, Nov. 7 — Nortel Networks, the telecommunications equipment maker in the midst of a prolonged restructuring, said Tuesday that it planned to complete a 1-for-10 reverse stock split by the end of the month.

The company, which is based in Toronto, also announced a narrowing of its quarterly loss, although the improvement stemmed mainly from asset sales and cuts to employee benefits. In its third quarter, Nortel lost $99 million, compared with $136 million a year earlier. Many analysts had expected a small profit.

Revenue rose 17 percent, to $2.96 billion, from $2.52 billion the year before.

“Of course we’re pleased with our revenue growth,” Mike S. Zafirovski, Nortel’s chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. “However, I’m not satisfied with the pace of our progress. Pricing pressures and the speed with which our revenues are shifting to next-generation, early-cycle products is a challenge to our goal of significantly increasing profitability.”

Nortel said Tuesday that it would continue to reduce costs to restore profits. This time, reductions include reducing spending on research and development to 15 percent of revenue from its current level of 18 percent.

To that end, the company opened a research facility in China last week to augment its main operation in Ottawa. Peter Currie, the company’s chief financial officer, said that future research and development work would increasingly shift to lower-cost regions like China.

Tim Daubenspeck, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Ore., said that he doubted that the planned cost reductions would be enough.
229 2006-11-08 PARIS, Nov. 7 (Reuters) — Vivendi posted flat third-quarter sales growth, slightly below forecasts, on Tuesday as poor trading at its SFR mobile unit and its music business counteracted solid revenues from video games and Maroc Telecom.

The company declined to elaborate on a failed friendly takeover approach by the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, and stopped short of updating its full-year outlook. Last weekend, Vivendi confirmed reports of the K.K.R. approach, but noted then that talks had not led to an offer.

Vivendi reported quarterly sales of 4.889 billion euros ($6.2 billion). That lagged the average forecast in a Reuters poll of 4.948 billion euros.

Sales from SFR, France’s second-largest mobile operator, fell 1.8 percent, to 2.196 billion euros, in the third quarter, undershooting an average forecast from six analysts for 2.242 billion euros. Vivendi said the decline was largely the result of lower prices imposed by regulators.

Vivendi blamed unfavorable exchange rates for a 2.1 percent drop in revenue at the Universal Music Group, to 1.096 billion euros. Universal is the world’s largest record company.

Once stripped of a lift of 36 million euros from a litigation settlement with the file-sharing Web site Napster, music revenue came in below the average forecast of 1.089 billion euros.

On a brighter note, digital music sales continued to rise, climbing 88 percent in the third quarter and now making up 11.5 percent of the Universal Music Group’s total revenue.
230 2006-11-08 Another poster, with the headline “Yes, we can read,” continues, “Some of us even write.” It goes on to list notable Mississippi writers including William Faulkner, Richard Wright, Eudora Welty and John Grisham.

The creators of the campaign, who are raising money to spread it nationwide, make no apologies for its direct references to the stereotypes.

“We’re just talking about the 800-pound gorilla that’s already in the room,” said Mr. Looser, adding that he was trying to save the state from “list fatigue.”

Mr. Looser, who created the campaign without charge and has not allowed any corporate logos, even his agency’s, to be placed on the posters, said he wanted to start changing the way everyone, especially Mississippians, saw the state.

In setting out to do that, he said, he realized he was “biting off a big ol’ piece.” Indeed, there proved to be a fine line between boosterism and apology: many, feeling that the campaign failed to strike the right balance, found its defensiveness an unwelcome surprise.

Kathy J. Herbert, 46, the receptionist at Oxford Elementary School, agrees that the state needs a better image, saying that when her teenage children travel, they are frequently embarrassed to say they are from Mississippi. But she takes exception to the posters’ approach.

“I think it’s pitiful,” Ms. Herbert said. “It’s pitiful we have to do that.”

Others say a public relations campaign to make people feel good about Mississippi only glosses over a need to solve real problems.

The perceptions of the state “are not that far off,” said Kristen M. Chase, who moved from New Jersey to Mississippi in 2002 to take up a post as a college professor and director of a career-oriented undergraduate program. “It’s hard to not be surprised when your students attend separate black and white proms or when you go to a restaurant and the husband of a couple will only talk to your husband.”

But many Mississippians like the campaign, and say it is time somebody stood up to the stereotype and those who promote them. Many here noticed when Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, in an interview this year about social services, told a reporter for The Dallas Morning News, “I don’t want to become Mississippi.”

Jolee C. Hussey, the librarian at Oxford High School, said she planned to ask students to write about one of the famous Mississippians pictured on the posters. Ms. Hussey said she supported any effort to show students the possibility of a brighter future.

“You’ve got to make Mississippians have pride,” she said. “You’ve got to make them believe in themselves first to help them rise.”

Mr. Grisham, the best-selling author, who lives in Oxford, said he understood the sentiment that had brought on the campaign.

“It’s kind of a way of fighting back, because we do get hammered,” he said. “But things aren’t all hopeless down here. There is some life and culture and education and football and stuff like that.”

Still, Mr. Grisham — who in 1983 ran for the Legislature, successfully, because Mississippi had failed to establish a public kindergarten program, unlike any of the 49 other states — said the problems were much bigger than collective low self-esteem.

“A P.R. campaign might make us feel good,” he said, but “I’m not sure it’s going to help anything. What’s going to help is education and economic development. We’ve been on the bottom economically since the Civil War, essentially our entire history.”
231 2006-11-08 At least 30 houses were destroyed, or nearly so, with 100 more damaged, a United Nations team that surveyed the damage reported. The stench of sewage wafted over streets churned up and sopping after Israeli bulldozers crunched through water mains. Scores of trees and lampposts were uprooted. At least 52 Palestinians were dead; the Israelis insisted that most were fighters, while Palestinians emphasized the civilians who were killed.

A leader of the United Nations survey team, John Ging, said he was “gravely concerned” by the extent of the damage.

“The scale of destruction that is now evident to anybody who wishes to go to Beit Hanun underscores the impossibility of conducting large-scale military operations in intensely built-up areas without creating this result,” said Mr. Ging, operations director for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees.

As Palestinian leaders worked to form a new national unity government that could ease the hardships here, the violence continued elsewhere in Gaza. In scattered incidents around the strip, the Israeli military said it had hit as many as 10 Palestinian fighters. Reuters reported that at least eight people were killed.

Among them were two people, including a woman, Nahla Shanti, killed after Israeli tank fire hit the house of Jamila Shanti, a Palestinian legislator from the militant faction Hamas.

The military said it had responded to two rocket-propelled grenades fired from the house. Ms. Shanti was reported to have been in the house at the time but was not wounded. The dead woman was her sister-in-law.

“The Israelis leave one area and enter another,” Reuters quoted the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, as saying. “We have spoken to the American administration and to the Europeans that such a situation cannot help restore security and stability.”

In all, the day seemed an illustration of the situation here at this stalemated moment in which there seems no plan to go forward on either the Palestinian or Israeli side, with deep internal divides on both.

The Israeli operation was intended to stop the rocket fire, and although it was reduced, it did not stop. In midafternoon, just hours after the Israeli troops left, four of the crude Qassam rockets sputtered up into the sky out of the destruction of Beit Hanun, leaving behind jagged trails of black smoke.

The rockets hit deeper into Israel than they have in months, landing in the city of Ashkelon, about six miles north of Gaza, but there were no injuries, the Israeli military reported. A fifth rocket landed harmlessly in the Negev desert.

The rounds fell as Yousef Seweil, 47, greeted mourners for his son, Ayman, 18, killed by Israelis on Friday in front of the Nasir mosque here — now leveled except for the minaret. Ayman, his father said, was killed along with two women after the Israelis opened fire on a crowd during a standoff between Israelis and fighters in the mosque.

Palestinians say it was a peaceful demonstration. Israelis counter that the women were acting as human shields to allow the fighters to escape and that there was fire from the crowd.

Mr. Seweil was unable to bury his son until Tuesday, he said, because the soldiers in tanks outside his house would not let him go to the hospital to retrieve the body. Mr. Seweil — who had another son, a fighter for the militant group Islamic Jihad, killed two years ago — said he was not sure whether he supported the firing of the rockets if the cost was so much destruction.

But he said he was furious with Israel.

“They kill,” he said. “They do whatever they want. They demolish houses. They arrest people. This time, they had no mercy.”

In a week when a Palestinian newspaper issued a rare public questioning of the wisdom of firing the rockets, many on the streets said they strongly supported it, no matter the price, simply because it scared the Israelis.

“We fire rockets to respond to what Israel is doing to our people,” said Ibrahim Seweil, Yousef Seweil’s brother, a policeman who said he was arrested during the operation and whose son was arrested, and let go, four times. “We are not sheep they can just slaughter.”

Israel says the rocket attacks are unprovoked, particularly because the government emptied all settlements and military outposts from Gaza last year.

On Tuesday evening, Mr. Abbas, who is based in the West Bank, remained in Gaza for a second night in a row to try to form a national unity government that would put technocrats approved by both his Fatah party and Hamas, which controls the government, into cabinet posts.

The new government would seek to end the Palestinians’ international isolation and win a restoration of Western aid, which was cut off after Hamas came to power this spring.

But the efforts had not yet produced a solution. Mr. Abbas reportedly rejected Hamas’s proposed candidate to succeed Ismail Haniya, the current Hamas prime minister, and Hamas met for internal talks.
232 2006-11-08 The trial process represented a tragic missed opportunity to provide a reckoning for the victims of Saddam Hussein’s crimes and to set the new Iraq on the path to justice.

The tragedy is made worse by the tribunal’s decision to impose the death penalty.

Mr. Hussein’s sentence flies in the face of the growing international consensus that the death penalty is the ultimate cruel and inhuman punishment and constitutes a violation of the most basic human right of all, the right to life.

The tribunal should reconsider the death penalty during the appeals stage and seize its second chance to put human rights at the core of post-Hussein Iraq. Beth Ann S. Toupin
233 2006-11-08 The group made nods toward changes in the media landscape — what does it mean to be a writer when video shows up on iPods and elevator screens? — before tearing into the chronic writer’s lament about studio fecklessness and attention-deficient audiences. Mr. Ray remains a romantic, suggesting to the eager aspiring writers in the audience that good stories trump all.

While the rest of the panel members admitted that they had come to hate reading scripts, Mr. Ray said he still read the work of others, a comment that no doubt earned him a slag pile worth of scripts from the people in attendance. Later on, in the lobby, he said that he was willing to be the chump staring at spec scripts because others had done so for him. And the scripts?

“It’s a bummer, they’re never any good,” he admitted, leaning forward in a navy button-up shirt and a pair of jeans. “Writing screenplays is hard, it’s a craft, and most people have trouble doing the work to make it good.”

Perhaps it’s a little harder than it used to be. During the panel Mr. Ray recounted how he had been asked by a producer to do a script based on “Doom”: “I said, ‘What’s the story?,’ and he said, ‘What’s the difference?’ ”

What with the endless remakes and many of the rest based on graphic novels, ancient television shows and focus-grouped concepts, perhaps the writer is increasingly vestigial to the process.

“It’s difficult out there, but it always has been,” he said. “If your goal is to write or direct for a living and make a contribution to the culture, you are choosing something tough. If I could be happy doing something else, I would.”

Although “Shattered Glass,” his intense portrait of the New Republic writer and fabulist Stephen Glass, did not make money — “I think nine people saw it,” he said ruefully — it demonstrated that he had a knack with the camera as well as the pen and an ability to draw good work out of actors, including an improbable performance from Hayden Christensen. But even so, to make “Breach,” which comes out of Universal Studios in February, it had to be pitched in a certain way.

“Universal is willing to make grown-up movies, and thank God for that,” he said, “but it has to be framed in a way that helps. A five-year-old story about an F.B.I. agent gone bad? Even though he spied for 22 years, and it was the worse security breach in U.S. history — probably not.” (“Breach” played to very nice chatter at AFI Fest last week.)

“It’s my job to articulate stories in a way that allows studios to stomach the idea of financing them,” he said. “With ‘Breach,’ the story is told through the eyes of a young assistant played by Ryan Phillippe, who at the age of 26 was put on Hanssen’s desk and told to gather information, then becomes a different story.”

Mr. Ray is already on to his next, doing research about a post-Katrina high school football team for a movie he will also direct. Mr. Ray, who also shared a writing credit on “Flightplan,” a Jodie Foster vehicle that did very well, said that he was surprised how much his I.Q. went up in the eyes of the industry once he directed.

“You are treated differently,” he said, scratching his head at the thought. “When I was back on set as a writer, I couldn’t believe how boring it was. It is nothing like being in the vortex as a director.”

Like everyone else in Hollywood right now, Mr. Ray is fascinated by the success of “Borat.”

“It is something completely new, and yet, its bones are classic,” he said. “Great main character with a quest, great performance, simple, identifiable journey that has complications. That’s screenwriting.”

Mr. Ray said during the panel that the movie business was akin to Prada and Dior’s hitting the runway with the same fashions year after year and expecting to wow the people sitting there. But he remains stuck on the idea of people sitting in the dark, sharing a communal “dream state,” as he calls it. He pointed out that in a business where no one knows anything, anything can happen.

“If I would have told you in April that ‘Little Miss Sunshine’ was going to outgross ‘Poseidon,’ you would have thought I was crazy,” he said, just before getting up to join his fellow panelists (although, in fact, big-budget “Poseidon” has edged small-budget “Sunshine” by a few million). “I think the audience is telling us something — they have become suspicious of business as usual.”
234 2006-11-08 “People are always more appealing when they’re unintelligible,” she says.

Indeed it is, or at least it sounds witty. Ms. Washburn may believe that this aphorism applies to plays as well as people, since “The Internationalist” could itself be described as willfully unintelligible. Scenes end suddenly or pointlessly, essential questions remain unasked or unanswered, characters lack definition, non sequiturs await at every turn. The play is like a jigsaw puzzle in which no two pieces seem to fit together, by design.

For a while the spell of uncertainty and mystery it evokes is appealing, or at least intriguing, particularly if fuzzy narrative is your kind of thing. (Ms. Washburn is associated with the downtown theater company the Civilians and the theater collective 13P, which originally produced “The Internationalist.”)

She has a real flair for wry, ambiguous dialogue. The scenes in which a bleary-eyed Lowell tries to ingratiate himself with his foreign colleagues (the work they do is undefined) are smart and funny, particularly when Ms. Washburn spoofs the kind of condescending anti-Americanism that Yanks abroad must choose to swallow or contentiously challenge.

“Oh, I have a question,” volunteers one of Lowell’s co-workers with a cheery smile. “Do you know that what you did to the Indians was very wrong?”

The petty rivalries, unspoken class distinctions and submerged sexual currents that lend tension to the workplace are also evoked with sly humor. Lowell appears to put an end to his liaison with Sara when he discovers she’s just the office assistant, while Nicol (Gibson Frazier), one of the office leaders, would clearly be hauled up on charges of sexual harassment if such things existed in this unnamed nation.

“You know, men would be less violent toward women if they had more violence to rescue them from,” he says to Sara, in a weirdly menacing attempt at flirtation.

The director, Ken Rus Schmoll, elicits puckish comic performances from the cast, with extra credit given for the challenge of memorizing big chunks of gobbledygook. Nina Hellman is particularly dry and quirky in dual roles as one of Lowell’s colleagues and a prostitute Lowell halfheartedly picks up on the street at night.

But the little shards of amusing dialogue become less frequent and less satisfying as the play wanders on, with flickering signs of meaning dissolving as quickly as they appear.

Is Ms. Washburn attempting an oblique commentary on the alienation Americans abroad feel today in a more hostile international environment? Does she hope to explore (yet again) the limitations of language?

For this viewer, Ms. Washburn’s scattered dramatic scheme failed to serve any purpose larger than leaving the audience, like the central character, in the dark. The play’s atmosphere, pregnant with sinister comic significance, suggests Lowell’s odyssey is meant to be a metaphor for something, but Ms. Washburn isn’t about to be so unsophisticated as to give us a clue as to what it is. (I would guess she’s a big fan of Caryl Churchill, but an intelligent order reigns in even the most oblique of Ms. Churchill’s works.)

The most you can say is that “The Internationalist” makes a general statement on the cruel discombobulations of serious jet lag. I’m afraid this is not an agenda that’s likely to give pleasure to many in the audience. Incidentally, can anyone spare some melatonin?

By Anne Washburn; directed by Ken Rus Schmoll; sets by Andromache Chalfant; costumes by Michelle R. Phillips; lighting by Jeff Croiter; sound by Robert Kaplowitz; production stage manager, Megan Smith; production manager, Ben Morris; general manager, Reed Ridgley; associate artistic director, Sarah Stern. Presented by the Vineyard Theater, Douglas Aibel, artistic director; Jennifer Garvey-Blackwell, executive director. At the Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. Through Nov. 26. Running time: 2 hours.
235 2006-11-08 Mr. Miller, the author of “The Story of World War II” and “D-Days in the Pacific,” vividly recreates the day-to-day life of the men who flew the missions and their comrades on the ground, relying on written records and memoirs, and also on interviews with about 250 veterans of the Eighth Air Force. All were lucky to have survived. Only submarine crews in the Pacific had a higher fatality rate.

Most airmen died in combat, especially during the desperate campaign of attrition leading up to D-Day, when bombers were sent out as bait for German fighters, which would then be picked off by American fighter pilots flying the new Mustang P-51. Many died during training accidents. Others died when one American plane crashed into another in bad weather, which was nearly constant over the British Isles.

Even runways, short and often fogbound, could be deadly. “When the end of the runway came in sight, we pulled it off the ground and prayed,” one veteran recalled. Many who did not die on bombing runs bailed out and ended up in prison camps. Some of those were in Switzerland, a little-known, ugly chapter of the war that Mr. Miller tells in detail.

The airmen’s was a dreadful existence, excruciatingly uncomfortable even on uneventful runs, sheer torture when flak shredded a bomber’s thin skin and German fighters swarmed like hornets. Adding to the sense of unreality, a crew could be dropping bombs over Berlin in the morning and drinking beer in a London pub the same evening. Mental breakdowns were routine and, by the winter of 1943, the most common reason for removing an airman from duty.

For more than a year, the Eighth Air Force was a conspicuous failure. Its bombing raids on ball-bearing plants and submarine bases produced little or no effect, but Gen. Henry Arnold, better known as Hap, the commander of the Army Air Forces, was desperate to prove that strategic bombing could work and determined to see the Army Air Forces emerge from the war as an independent branch of the armed services (which, in 1947, they did). Again and again, too few planes with inadequate escort were sent out on daylight runs against ill-chosen targets, like World War I infantrymen being sent over the top.

Gradually, theory gave way to the bitter lessons of experience. Just as important, American industry, operating full tilt, began supplying airplanes in the numbers needed. At peak strength, the Eighth comprised some 200,000 airmen and ground support troops, 2,800 heavy bombers and more than 1,400 fighter planes.

Its fighter pilots, who included Chuck Yeager, decimated the Luftwaffe and left the skies clear for D-Day. The bombers, abandoning the fantasy of delivering knockout blows, concentrated on repeat bombings of infrastructure targets like railroad yards and bridges. Late in the war the “bomber boys” took part in the apocalyptic raids that destroyed Berlin and Dresden. Mr. Miller unflinchingly describes the devastation wrought by the civilian bombing campaign and tackles the moral issues head-on. He is no cheerleader.

Mr. Miller has a fluid way of moving from discussion of theory and tactics to the personal stories that give them human weight. His most gripping pages are devoted to airmen like Lt. Robert Rosenthal, nicknamed Rosie, a young Brooklyn lawyer who enlisted the day after Pearl Harbor, piloted 25 missions and then volunteered for a second tour of duty.

Lieutenant Rosenthal completed another 27 missions before jumping from his burning airplane, Rosie’s Riveters, after a bombing run over Berlin on Feb. 3, 1945. He had carried out the mission while the airplane was ablaze, steered it back to Soviet-held territory and then waited while the rest of his crew bailed out. The amazing thing is, there were a lot of others like him.
236 2006-11-08 Human Rights Watch, one of the most prominent and critical advocacy organizations in Russia, was re-registered under a new law that forced it and dozens of others to suspend operations last month.    STEVEN LEE MYERS (NYT)...
237 2006-11-08 FLEMING--Mary Elizabeth (Betty). On November 6, 2006, after a long illness. Devoted daughter of the late Joseph P. & Elizabeth C. (McFarlane), cherished cousin of The Landers, Fleming and McFarlane families. Reposing at The Gannon Funeral Home, 15...
238 2006-11-08 The Russian prosecutor general's office said two oil fields operated by a joint venture of BP, the British oil company, were in violation of their licensing terms and recommended that the Ministry of Natural Resources revoke the licenses. The move...
239 2006-11-08 ACCUSATIONS OF PRETEXTING -- At least five vocal critics of Allied Capital, which provides loans to small companies, said they were victims of pretexting, or improperly impersonating an individual to obtain confidential information. [Page C1.]    ...
240 2006-11-08 To the Editor:     Re ''The Saddam Hussein Verdict'' (editorial, Nov. 6):     The trial process represented a tragic missed opportunity to provide a reckoning for the victims of Saddam Hussein's crimes and to set the new Iraq on the path to justic...
241 2006-11-08 BARBET-D'ASSIGNIES-Denyse, passed away at the age of 87 on November 3rd in Costa Rica. She worked at the United Nations for 20 years, was a Barnard College graduate, social psychologist, a painter, and a breast cancer survivor. She is remembered f...
242 2006-11-09 How long can this hedge boom continue?...
243 2006-11-09 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
244 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
245 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
246 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
247 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
248 2006-11-09 Investors in Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical and Sinopec Yizheng Chemical Fibre have rejected plans to increase the amount of the companies' tradable stock and will instead hold out for a better offer. Shares in the China Petroleum divisions surged...
249 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
250 2006-11-09 The Securities and Exchange Commission sued Edward S. Ehee, a San Francisco hedge fund manager, along with the funds that he managed, Viper Capital Management and Compass Fund Management, on Wednesday, accusing him of fleecing 18 investors out of ...
251 2006-11-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
252 2006-11-09 J.P. Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley are close to resolving a stand-off that has delayed growth of trading derivatives based on corporate loans, says Bloomberg News. If an agreement is reached in the two-month long dispute - which set back the cre...
253 2006-11-09 The Australian government said it would increase its $6.1 billion Telstra stock sale after a surge in demand from retail investors. Telstra is Australia's biggest phone company and interest appears to have exceeded the government's original target...
254 2006-11-09 In a boon for the local technology industry, Intel has been given a "go" to increase its investment in Vietnam from an initial $300 million to up to $1 billion, according to news reports. Intel is building a factory in Ho Chi Minh City and is expe...
255 2006-11-09 In the latest installment of a long stock exchange soap opera, shares in the London Stock Exchange rose on word that the Nasdaq Stock Market would make another run at the British market, dealers told Reuters Thursday. Dealers said that rumors pegg...
256 2006-11-09 In a rare move, Microsoft said Wednesday that it had agreed to pay a percentage of the sales of its new portable media player, the Zune, to the Universal Music Group. Universal Music, a unit of Vivendi, will receive a royalty on the Zune player in...
257 2006-11-09 The Manufacturing conglomerate 3M on Thursday announced a three-part transaction valued at $2.1 billion to sell its global pharmaceuticals business. An affiliate of a private equity firm, GTCR Golder Rauner, agreed to buy 3M's pharmaceutical opera...
258 2006-11-09 Throwing aside hedge funds' traditional taste for secrecy, the Fortress Investment Group has filed with regulators to sell shares in an initial public offering. The I.P.O. would be the first listing of its kind in the United States, allowing ordin...
259 2006-11-09 Declining energy prices helped narrow the trade deficit between the United States and the rest of the world in September, the Commerce Department reported today.

The trade deficit fell at the fastest rate in nearly two years to $64.3 billion, down from a record $68.9 billion in August. It was the first time the deficit has shrunk since June.

But even as the deficit contracted over all, trade with China continued to be wildly uneven. In September, lopsided trade with the growing Asian economic powerhouse accounted for a bigger chunk of the American deficit than any other foreign nation — $23 billion.

News of the declining American trade gap here came a day after China reported that its trade surplus rose to $23.8 billion in October. That was another record, far surpassing the previous high of $18.8 billion set just two months earlier.

For the year, the American trade deficit now stands at $586.2 billion. Almost a third of that involves trade with China.
260 2006-11-09 Gary Sheffield played only 39 games for the Yankees in the 2006 season because of wrist surgery. He said last night that the wrist was “healthy now,” and that he was ready to resume his baseball career in, or most likely out, of pinstripes.

But while his left wrist may have healed, Sheffield’s ego is clearly bruised.

“I did nothing but produce for the Yankees my first two seasons in New York, but now it looks like I’m gone,” said Sheffield, who turns 38 on Nov. 18. “You can call it business, you can call it personal. I say it’s both.”

Earlier this week, the Yankees picked up Sheffield’s $13 million contract option for next season. That created a situation in which Sheffield would either be traded or kept as a first baseman, a position he played in September after returning from wrist surgery only because the Yankees had acquired Bobby Abreu to play right field in his absence.

But Sheffield, who averaged 35 home runs and 122 runs batted in his first two years with the Yankees, wondered why Joe Torre and Company were so high on Abreu as their new right fielder, and why he was not allowed to compete for his old position.

“I’ve done more for the Yankees than he will ever do,” Sheffield said of Abreu. “When you lose your spot on a team, it should be because the other guy is better than you, but that’s not the case here. Why was I not given a chance to compete for the right-field job?”

Sheffield, who was being honored for his charitable work at the opening of the Brooklyn Diner in Times Square, also said that if George Steinbrenner, the Yankees’ principal owner, were not in declining health, Steinbrenner would have already signed him to the three-year extension he is seeking.
261 2006-11-09 The issue has cast a cloud over the historic sweep by Democrats in all statewide elections and complicated the transition of Mr. Spitzer, who withdrew his endorsement of Mr. Hevesi before the election. Mr. Spitzer was asked yesterday if the comptroller’s margin of victory had changed his thinking.

“No,” he said, but also added that he would not interfere with the deliberations over Mr. Hevesi’s fate unfolding under Governor Pataki, a Republican.

But Mr. Spitzer said that on Jan. 1, when he takes office, the matter would be “my responsibility.”

“And at that point,” he added, “I will answer all of these questions.”

Mr. Pataki said the deliberations would continue to proceed as he reviews the matter with the lawyer he hired to handle a potential removal effort in the State Senate. “This is something where you have to go the extra mile and be extraordinarily prudent,” Mr. Pataki said.

Mr. Hevesi appears to be hunkering down. In an acceptance speech on Tuesday night delivered at a separate hotel from the other Democratic candidates on the statewide ticket, he showed a determination to serve out his second term, pledging to “serve and work hard for the people of New York every day of my next four years.”

The issue is exposing fault lines among Democrats.

Mr. Spitzer’s camp has praised the work of David N. Kelley, the former federal prosecutor hired by Governor Pataki to look into the Hevesi issue in the wake of the ethics commission’s report that was scathing in its assessment of the comptroller’s conduct.

But Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature’s top Democrat, has ridiculed the review by Mr. Pataki’s appointee.

“What’s gone on until now has been a political charade,” Mr. Silver said on election night. Referring to the ethics report, he said, “The governor said, ‘You know what, I better hire an attorney to read that report and tell me what it says,’ and he hired an attorney who read the report and basically he said, well, I don’t know either.”

The Hevesi matter aside, Democrats were broadly triumphant yesterday over the election results, and Mr. Silver was otherwise promising to work closely with Mr. Spitzer.

That spirit of collaboration was echoed by the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, whose Republican colleagues held on to a majority of the chamber’s seats.

In Albany yesterday, Mr. Bruno said that he would “welcome an opportunity to talk on Day 1, Day 2, Day 3 with the new governor about an agenda,” according to The Associated Press. He was referring to Mr. Spitzer’s slogan to change everything about how the state operates “on Day 1” of his term.

Mr. Bruno also said that, even though Mr. Spitzer had “kind of an aggressive way about him,” he believed the two could work together.

Mr. Spitzer focused more on positive topics the day after his 40-point margin of victory over his Republican challenger, John Faso.

Mr. Spitzer, who drew a record 69 percent of the vote, and Mr. Pataki had a cup of coffee at a diner before meeting with the news media at the governor’s Midtown office.

“I was coming by to visit a client this morning and didn’t expect to see you all here,” Mr. Spitzer said, referring to his current role as attorney general, the legal representative of the state’s executive branch.

Mr. Pataki said, “It’s been a pleasure to work with him in his professional capacity, and I have absolute confidence that the state of New York will be in very good hands.”

If nothing else, the two men were a contrast in height — Mr. Spitzer is 5 feet 11 inches tall and Mr. Pataki stands between 6-foot-5 and 6-foot-6. Mr. Spitzer said that Mr. Pataki had advised him “to get a lectern that was shorter,” then kiddingly climbed on a stool to equalize the situation.

Regarding the change in power, Mr. Pataki said he was assigning his chief of staff, John P. Cahill, to lead the transition effort on his side. Mr. Spitzer said he would wait a day before divulging specifics about his team.

Later yesterday, Mr. Spitzer met with labor and business leaders: Denis M. Hughes, the president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Kenneth Adams, the president of the Business Council of New York State. It was a calculated move for a politician who made his name going after big business instead of courting it.

Mr. Spitzer said that in meeting with the business and labor leaders, he was simply continuing the kind of consensus-building he pursued as attorney general — a characterization many of the subjects of his investigations would surely dispute.

The Wall Street cases “almost all ended in negotiations and resolutions that brought the parties together,” he said, adding that the cases pursued against investment banks and their stock analysts “highlighted the capacity to zero in on a problem, to find a resolution, forge consensus among parties who had been in substantial disagreement.”

Then there was a flash of the old Eliot Spitzer aggressiveness. During the meeting at his downtown office, he happened to be squeezing a tennis ball that bore the emblem of Merrill Lynch, one of the companies that Mr. Spitzer had wrung a nine-figure settlement from as attorney general.

When asked about the ball, the governor-elect said, “Somebody gave this to me a couple years back,” adding that he would “throw it against the wall during negotiations.”
262 2006-11-09 Johnson & Johnson says that its Janssen pharmaceuticals unit has received a subpoena from the California attorney general over the sale and marketing of Risperdal, a schizophrenia drug.

The subpoena was issued in September, Johnson & Johnson reported yesterday in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company said it was responding.

The California authorities asked for documents on sales and marketing and side effects of the drug, as well as dealings with state officials involving Medicaid, the filing said.

A spokesman for the attorney general’s office, Nathan Barankin, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

In the third quarter, Johnson & Johnson said, its sales of Risperdal increased 15 percent, to $1.07 billion. According to Bloomberg data and a Janssen Web site, Risperdal is one of the world’s largest-selling antipsychotic drugs.

In trading yesterday, Johnson & Johnson shares fell 72 cents, or just over 1 percent, to $67.99.
263 2006-11-09 The pact comes after weeks of tense talks and averts a standoff that might have crippled Microsoft’s attempt to compete against the iPod.

The accord also could represent a sea change in the dynamics between technology developers and the media companies that provide the content that plays on their devices. It illustrates how music companies are scrambling to attach themselves to fast-developing online businesses. The move also reflects Universal’s recognition that, for all the runaway success of gadgets like the iPod, consumers are still not buying enough digital music to make up for declining sales of music on compact disk. Universal said it was only fair to receive payment on devices that may be repositories for stolen music.

A recent study estimated that Apple has sold an average of 20 songs per iPod — a fraction of its capacity. The rest of consumers’ music files — 95 percent or more — come from ripped CDs, possibly including discs from their own collections, and illegal file-trading networks, the study said.

As a result, music companies have long coveted the revenue being generated through devices like the iPod. But so far, they have had little recourse.

In 1999, a federal appeals court ruled that one of the earliest digital music players, the Diamond Rio, was not covered by a federal law that required makers of certain audio recording devices to use anticopying technology and pay a royalty to the record labels.

In announcing the deal with Universal, Microsoft said it would now offer similar royalty deals to the rest of the industry. In discussing the rationale for the royalty, Chris Stephenson, general manager for global marketing in Microsoft’s entertainment unit, said the company “needed people to rally behind” the new device and service.

In addition, the deal may provide leverage for Universal to insist on a cut of future iPod sales when its existing contract with Apple expires next year.

“It’s a major change for the industry,” said David Geffen, the entertainment mogul who more than a decade ago sold the record label that bears his name to Universal. “Each of these devices is used to store unpaid-for material. This way, on top of the material people do pay for, the record companies are getting paid on the devices storing the copied music.”

He added: “It certainly changes the paradigm.”

Under federal legislation passed in the early 1990s, the recording industry receives a royalty on sales of certain audio devices like digital-audio tape machines. But the devices covered by the law do not generate much: the nonprofit organization that oversees those royalties distributed just $3.5 million to labels and artists last year, according to its Web site.

But Universal Music’s chairman, Doug Morris, has been increasingly vocal about securing compensation for the company’s music.

Two months ago, Mr. Morris took a public swipe at user-driven Web sites like MySpace and YouTube, telling a Merrill Lynch investor conference that “these new businesses are copyright infringers and owe us tens of millions of dollars.” (Universal later struck a licensing deal with YouTube.)

“I’m hopeful that technology companies and creative companies will understand how each other’s futures are intertwined,” Mr. Morris said last night. “It can only work if one doesn’t try and take advantage of the other, and so far we’ve come out on the short end.”

Given the industry’s sluggish sales, Mr. Morris has had plenty of reason to try new business models. CD sales continue to decline, and digital music has not offset the drop. In addition, the pace of growth in digital sales has been slowing by some measures.

Microsoft ultimately had plenty of incentive to make a deal with Universal. Microsoft is laying a huge wager on the Zune. If it had not struck a deal, it would have been left in the position of trying to mount a credible challenge to the iPod without Universal, which accounts for a third of new albums sold in the United States. Microsoft also stands to benefit by cultivating a fan-friendly image with the notion that artists — not just corporations — will share in the Zune’s sales.

Steve Gordon, an entertainment lawyer, said that Universal was saying, in effect: “Look, we know new technologies are here to stay. We know CDs are like typewriters, and are being replaced. ”

When the companies initially licensed Apple’s fledgling iTunes service, “they didn’t figure he’d make tens of billions of dollars from the iPod,” said Mr. Gordon, author of the book “The Future of the Music Business.”

“This time they’re saying, ‘Well, we want a piece.’ ”
264 2006-11-09 Coach Dan McCarney resigned yesterday after 12 seasons as the Cyclones’ coach, leaving the program after one its most disappointing seasons. McCarney, the Big 12’s longest-tenured coach, will direct the Cyclones (3-7, 0-6) for their final two games of the season. He is 55-84 at Iowa State.
265 2006-11-09 The Fortress Investment Group plans to raise as much as $750 million in what is set to be the first initial public offering by a United States hedge fund.

Investors will own 10 percent of Fortress after the offering, the company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. The sale values Fortress at up to $7.5 billion

Fortress, which oversees $26 billion, was founded as a private equity firm in 1998 by Wesley Edens, Robert Kauffman and Randal Nardone. It later expanded into hedge funds, real estate and debt. Its assets have more than doubled since March 2005.

The offering will expose Fortress to the kind of public scrutiny that private investment firms usually avoid.

Fortress said having publicly traded shares would help it compensate employees, raise capital and provide currency for future acquisitions. Proceeds will help it start funds to invest in infrastructure, real estate and structured debt, and to “selectively diversify our business,” the company said in its filing with Securities and Exchange Commission.
266 2006-11-09 As part of a continuing effort to combat the new threat of terrorism and the older one of international organized crime, the F.B.I. opened an office in Sydney, bringing its overseas offices to a total of 74, an almost 40 percent increase in the past two years. The terrorist threat since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, is often perceived as the primary reason for the F.B.I.’s expansion, Thomas V. Fuentes, the director of the agency’s international operations, said in a news conference in Sydney. But the offices also focus on international organized crime, international financial crimes, cyber crime and criminal activities like narcotics trafficking and people smuggling. “No one can combat these threats, not just from terrorism, but from organized crime, other than on a global basis,” Mr. Fuentes said. “These criminals for many years have collaborated across borders, without regard for sovereignty.”
267 2006-11-09 To Mr. Stein, the proliferation of electric fences is an Orwellian indicator of the scary state of the American suburb, the crescendo of what he sees as a spreading suburban virus: stifling over-regulation, petty bickering, cliques, favoritism and small-town politics.

Mr. Stein, 48, moved into his house on a corner parcel on Ocean Avenue in 1999. He bought Aurora last year for $1,000. Since Northport, a village of 7,600 in Suffolk County, requires corner houses to get special permits for fences so as not to block views, Mr. Stein bought an electric version from Fido’s Fences.

But last month, two neighbors complained to village officials that Aurora attacked their dogs as they walked near or on Mr. Stein’s property, leading to a failure-to-leash summons.

Dog pound officials and Northport police officers arrived at Mr. Stein’s house on Oct. 27, and met Mr. Stein, still in his pajamas, as he returned from dropping his children at school. He said the police refused to show him the court order to seize Aurora, so he refused to turn over his dog. The police chief said they did hand over the paperwork.

Mr. Stein locked Aurora in his car and the police arrested him and took him in handcuffs — and pajamas — to the precinct house in town, where he was held in a holding cell for four hours and spent much of that time meditating in the lotus position. He left with several summonses, including one for having a dog off leash and another for obstructing the seizing of the dog.

Officials had a tougher time with Aurora. They removed her shock collar, but had difficulty getting her off the premises. The officials finally removed her and put her in a local dog shelter, no visitors allowed.

It was not Mr. Stein’s first problem with a pet. In July, 2004, a resident of nearby Centerport filed a complaint claiming that a previous dog he owned had attacked his dog, a matter that was settled when Mr. Stein agreed to get rid of the dog.

With a ponytail and an outspoken manner, Mr. Stein said he has been unpopular with village officials ever since he publicly led a group that successfully opposed the opening of a new bank in town.

Mr. Stein said his previous dog died from antifreeze poisoning, and now, with the Aurora story making the local paper, The Northport Observer, “I’m public enemy No. 1,” he said.

Mayor George Doll of Northport would not comment except to say that the Northport police enforced the law correctly.

Northport’s police chief, Eric Bruckenthal, said the action taken against Mr. Stein was not because of bias, but simply because he broke the law.

The court hearing started at 9 p.m. Monday and ended at 1:30 a.m. Tuesday, when Paul H. Senzer, the village justice, officially designated Aurora a “dangerous dog.”

Mr. Senzer agreed with testimony from the dog behavioral specialist and found that Aurora most likely had been shocked by the electric fence and attacked the neighbors’ dogs to redirect the pain. He said Mr. Stein could reclaim her only if he met a strict list of provisions, including erecting a kennel and fence, hiring a dog behaviorist, and taking out a $100,000 insurance policy covering any future attacks.

“Forget it. I might as well put the dog to sleep,” Mr. Stein said as he walked out of the tiny courtroom in Village Hall on Main Street.

Interviewed later on Tuesday, he said he had been unable to find an insurance company to sell such a policy, or get village permits for such a fence.

“The judge raised the bar so high that I can never get the dog back,” he said. “He’s effectively killing the dog without having the guts to actually order her killed.”

At the hearing, Mr. Stein, who said he had argued cases in 26 states and before the New York Court of Appeals, went with the electric-fence defense. He pointed out that there are no sidewalks in front of his house, so passers-by frequently walk their dogs on the edge of his property, which he called “a blatant violation of Constitutional rights of private property.” He said he should not be penalized for what happens to trespassers.

Mr. Stein called to the witness stand an employee of Fido’s Fence, who testified that Aurora would never have bolted through the invisible fence, so the other dogs must have crossed the line and aroused her, noting that German shepherds are a territorial breed.

Jeff Kolbjornsen, a dog trainer, testified that he inspected Aurora at the pound — pinching her, pulling her tail, stepping on her paws and putting her in a choke hold — and found her gentle. But, he said, a shock from an electric fence could have caused “aberrant behavior” and prompted Aurora to “redirect the frustration or shock of the pain to another animal nearby.”

Mr. Stein told the judge that when he got the fence, “There’d be no way to know that this other side of the equation existed.”

Now he wants to move, maybe to New York City or down South.

“Who wants to live in suburbia?” he asked. “I’m going to find a place where my dog and I can be free, because there’s no freedom in the village of Northport.”
268 2006-11-09 The Cablevision Systems Corporation reported a narrower third-quarter loss yesterday as it signed up more cable customers for premium services like high-speed Internet access and digital phone.

Cablevision, which also owns Madison Square Garden, Radio City Music Hall and a handful of cable channels, posted a loss of $59.2 million, or 21 cents a share, compared with a loss of $63 million, or 22 cents a share, a year ago.

Revenue rose 13.4 percent, to $1.41 billion, from $1.24 billion, meeting analysts’ estimates. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial, however, had been expecting a loss of 14 cents a share.

Cablevision’s shares fell 2 cents, to $27.91, on the New York Stock Exchange.

Cablevision’s board is currently evaluating an offer from the company’s controlling shareholders, the Dolan family, to take the company private at $27 a share, or nearly $8 billion. Many analysts expect the Dolans to sweeten their offer.

Despite a 25.6 percent gain in operating income, to $135.4 million, the company, based in Bethpage, N.Y., posted a net loss partly because of a 27.7 percent increase in interest payments, to $238.7 million.

The interest costs rose as the company took on an additional $3 billion in debt to pay out a special dividend of $10 a share to all shareholders in April of this year.
269 2006-11-09 As the Michigan vote highlighted, affirmative action remains a polarizing issue in American life. Over all, Proposition 2 won a comfortable 58 percent majority, but the divide between male and female voters, and whites and blacks, was far greater.

CNN reported that a survey of 1,955 voters as they left polling places showed that almost two-thirds of the white voters questioned wanted to end affirmative action, compared with only about one in seven black voters. And while almost two-thirds of men supported the proposition, only a slight majority of women did. Michigan is roughly 81 percent white and 14 percent black.

At a news conference, Ms. Coleman said yesterday, “I believe there are serious questions as to whether this initiative is lawful, particularly as it pertains to higher education.”

She added: “I have asked our attorneys for their full and undivided support in defending diversity at the University of Michigan. I will immediately begin exploring legal action concerning this initiative.”

Ms. Coleman said she expected to seek court confirmation for a university proposal to continue its admissions process this year without regard to Proposition 2, to avoid having different admissions criteria for those who applied before and after the election.

The ballot proposition — set to go into effect in 45 days — comes at an awkward time in the university’s admissions cycle. Under Michigan’s rolling admissions plan, applications have been coming in since August and the first batch of several hundred acceptances is to be mailed out this week.

In an interview, Ms. Coleman said the proposition was so vague that without getting further legal clarity, it was difficult to know just how it would affect the university’s outreach and scholarship programs.

Ms. Gratz accused the university of trying to ignore the results of the referendum.

“I think it’s perfectly clear,” she said, “and I think it was perfectly clear to the voters. It’s now unconstitutional in Michigan to use racial preferences in public education, contracting or hiring.”

“The University of Michigan should stop trying to circumvent the law,” she said, “and we will fight to make sure they listen to what the voters have said.”
270 2006-11-09 The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday sued a San Francisco hedge fund manager, Edward S. Ehee, and the funds that he managed, Viper Capital management and Compass Fund Management, accusing him of fleecing 18 investors out of about $5 million.

Mr. Ehee raised the money from investors, including a neighbor who gave his children’s trust funds to Mr. Ehee and the neighbor’s mother-in-law, who invested her entire retirement savings in the funds, according to the complaint.

Rather than invest the millions he raised, Mr. Ehee gave the money to family members and used it to pay for his mortgage, his cars and vacations in Las Vegas, the complaint says.

S.E.C. officials pointed to the case as an example of the agency cracking down on abuses against retirees.

“We see a lot of people approaching retirement, people who may feel like they have retirement funds to invest more aggressively,” said Cary S. Robnett, assistant district administrator for the San Francisco office of the S.E.C. “They need to be very, very careful in making these investments.”
271 2006-11-09 Indeed, though Mr. Lieberman’s news conference was completed moments before President Bush’s announcement that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld would resign, he went out of his way to make it clear, again, that he was not interested in that job — or any other post in the Bush administration.

“I would reject any offer, which has not come, and, I believe, will not come,” he said.

Instead, Mr. Lieberman seemed to be relishing his renewed independence and seniority in a Senate where, regardless of the outcome in Virginia, either party’s razor-thin majority will make it vital for Democrats and Republicans to form coalitions.

“This is not so much to threaten anybody, but, look, this is going to be a closely divided Senate however it works out,” he said. “And I’m just going to feel empowered and in some sense directed by the voters of Connecticut, issue by issue.”

Even as he praised Mr. Reid and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the presumptive speaker of the House, there were still signs of the toll the tumultuous campaign had taken on Mr. Lieberman’s relationship with the party that had been his lifelong political home.

He noted, for instance, that he had not immediately returned calls from Mr. Reid or Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who had backed his opponent, Ned Lamont. Yet he had already spoken to Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, the chairwoman of the Homeland Security Committee.

Some state Democrats say they are unsure what to expect from Mr. Lieberman, whom exit polls showed winning with more than two-thirds of the Republican vote and one-third of the Democrats.

Mr. Lamont’s campaign buoyed thousands of new voters and volunteers, and many of them helped the Democratic candidates in competitive House races here. In his victory speech Tuesday night, Mr. Lieberman offered somewhat of an olive branch, saying that Mr. Lamont had run a tough campaign.

Even as he said that he would “make sure that the system is open” to bloggers and other active party members, Mr. Lieberman criticized the “netroots,” the Internet activists who had helped fuel Mr. Lamont’s candidacy.

“Some of them have had a destructive effect on political discourse because they are so venomous,” he said. “Obviously, I was on the receiving end of a lot of it. And, you know, I didn’t recognize myself in what my staff let me see.”

While many read Mr. Lieberman’s defeat in the primary and many of the national elections as a rebuke of the war in Iraq, the senator appeared steadfast yesterday, saying “you can’t make national security policy with public opinion polls.”

Many Democrats, both nationally and here in Connecticut, said Mr. Lieberman’s most potent difficulties could come when the debate turns to Iraq, where he remains at odds with most Democrats. But far from diminishing him, some see the defeat followed by triumph as enhancing Mr. Lieberman’s stature, at least on the talk-show circuit.

“Just based on the fact that he was able to pull this off, independents across the country are going to be looking to him,” said Kenneth Dautrich, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut. “He will command more attention than any other Democratic senator.”

When asked if he had learned any lessons from the election, Mr. Lieberman responded: “I don’t know if I can point to any one, specifically.” He added, “I have no sense of self-righteous perfection here.”
272 2006-11-09 Opposition forces had objected to allowing Mr. Gbagbo to remain in office for another year but were more amenable to giving Mr. Banny an expanded role. The Security Council’s Resolution 1721, which was sponsored by France on the basis of proposals from African mediators, strengthened Mr. Banny’s powers and gave him authority over the military and security forces, but critics said it failed to go far enough.

Mr. Gbagbo has cautiously welcomed the United Nations resolution, warning that he would not carry out clauses that might be inconsistent with the Constitution.

The president is supported by volatile militia movements whose members regard themselves as patriots. Mr. Gbagbo is seen by his opponents as an obstacle to peace.

Measures to issue identity documents were interrupted by clashes between Gbagbo supporters in the south and the political opposition allied to New Forces rebels holding the northern part of the country.

An estimated 3.5 million Ivorians have no identity papers, and the issue of Ivorian identity is a central issue of the civil conflict in Ivory Coast, where thousands of migrants come to work on cocoa plantations.

Presidential and parliamentary elections had been scheduled for the end of October, but were delayed for a second time since the country was split in two between the government and the rebels late in 2002.

Mr. Banny said he wanted the backing of all those “in the administration and elsewhere who have a role to play and sincerely wish that peace will come to our beautiful country.”

“I count from this point, with determination, to pursue and complete the actions to get out of the crisis that have been set out in Resolution 1721,” he said.

The prime minister, who heads a broad-based government, said the United Nations resolution “in my eyes constitutes a new and ultimate framework to settle the crisis peacefully.” He added, “In this context, it seems to me absolutely unnecessary to look for another scheme as a substitute for this resolution.”

Mr. Banny said he would create a new structure for military dialogue to reorganize and unify government and rebel forces.

He pledged to complete “as soon as possible” the dismantling of militia groups and to “definitively” withdraw illegally held weapons.

“I will work with determination and without weakness for the reunification of the country and the restoration of state authority across the entire territory,” he said, “and to restore to our citizens the freedom of movement, without obstacles and in safety.”
273 2006-11-09 “Any attempt by Tony Marshall to blame Samuel Cohen & Company for the mistake is a disingenuous and desperate attempt to deflect attention away from his own conduct in this matter,” Mr. Pollack said. “The firm relied on information that he provided, and it discussed this information with him. This firm will not passively stand by and be a scapegoat for anyone.”

Mr. Marshall’s lawyers have said that he first noticed the painting’s overstated original price on his mother’s tax return while reviewing documents in a guardianship case brought against him in July by his son Philip.

But Mr. Pollack said that Mr. Marshall supplied the firm with the erroneous numbers at the end of 2002. At the time, he said, the firm had no reason to suspect that the figures did not reflect the true capital gain. Mrs. Astor bought the work of art 11 years before she retained Samuel Cohen & Company and the firm had had no direct access to the financial records about the painting, Mr. Pollack said.

The firm provided The New York Times with copies of tax estimates specific to the sale of the painting, in an effort to show that Mrs. Astor’s son was aware of the inaccurate capital gains figure in the tax return.

The tax matter involving the Hassam painting, also known as “Up the Avenue From 34th Street, May 1917,” has become a costly problem for Mr. Marshall since the resolution last month of the guardianship case. Philip Marshall had accused his father of neglecting the care of Mrs. Astor, who is 104, while enriching himself with her wealth.

As part of the settlement agreement announced on Oct. 13, Anthony Marshall is to pay $1.35 million to J. P. Morgan Chase & Company, which is now the permanent guardian of Mrs. Astor’s assets, to cover interest and late penalties on tax matters.

Mr. Marshall, 82, who was also forced to relinquish his position as steward of his mother’s finances, asked the bank during the summer to file an amended 2002 tax return for his mother. Les Fagen, a lawyer for J. P. Morgan, declined to comment yesterday on whether the bank had submitted the amended return.

One of Mr. Marshall’s lawyers, Kenneth E. Warner, did not return calls seeking comment over a two-day period. Another lawyer, Harvey E. Corn, said through his receptionist yesterday that he “was not interested” in talking.

Samuel Cohen & Company, which is based in Melville, on Long Island, said that tax projections it prepared for Mrs. Astor on Dec. 21, 2002, were shown to Mr. Marshall two days later.

A copy of a page from the accountant’s daily planner shows that he had a meeting scheduled with Mr. Marshall for Dec. 23 at Mrs. Astor’s business office to discuss taxes. During that meeting, according to Mr. Pollack, Mr. Marshall told the accountant that the capital gains on the sale of the painting were even slightly lower than those in the projections.

Alice Perdue, a former aide to Mrs. Astor who helped manage her business office for 12 years, recalled in telephone interviews Tuesday and yesterday that at his request she gave Mr. Marshall the file on the painting around the time he sold it.

“Mr. Marshall asked me for the file and I gave it to him,” Ms. Perdue said. She explained that Mr. Marshall laid her off in September of last year, telling her he needed someone who was more adept at computers and who could take dictation.

Ms. Perdue added, “The file contained the paperwork from 1970 when Mrs. Astor purchased the Hassam painting.”

A spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service, Anthony Burke, said federal law prohibited the agency from discussing any tax return information. But he said that as a general rule, if the I.R.S. determined that an omission from a tax return was willful, the agency could refer the case to the Department of Justice.
274 2006-11-09 The commission appears to be seeking a middle road in a contentious fight that pits advocates of strong controls on corporate misbehavior — who fear any weakening of the law that was passed in the wake of the Enron and WorldCom scandals — against corporate executives who see an opportunity to roll back what they see as overregulation and, at the same time, perhaps adopt other business-friendly policies. A committee appointed by the previous chairman of the commission, William H. Donaldson, urged the S.E.C. to eliminate audits for many smaller companies.

Some members of Congress have said they will push for legislation next year, and commissions appointed by business interests are planning to produce proposals for legislation soon. But other legislators have urged regulators to find ways to cut costs without having to reopen the law.

Mr. Cox said that many were taken by surprise by the cost, noting that Section 404, which requires company managements to assess the state of internal financial controls, was based on existing legislation affecting financial institutions.

“That did not cause the sky to fall,” he said of the earlier rule, “and there was no advance warning that the sky would fall” when Section 404 was adopted.

But, he said, the accounting oversight board decided to go further than bank regulators had gone. He said he expected the revised audit standard to be easier to comply with, but added: “I am very concerned that no matter what we do in this audit standard, we will not have much impact on audit fees. But it is our intention to do so, in a way that gives investors far more bang for the buck.”

Mr. Cox said the commission would propose new rules to provide guidance to companies on how to evaluate internal controls.

And, he said, it is likely to accept the size categories proposed by the small-business advisory committee, even while requiring audits of all companies. For two years, companies with market capitalizations under $75 million would be required to evaluate their own internal controls but not to have the results audited.

Audits would begin in the third year, and continue every year thereafter. But, he said, they would most likely focus on the “suitability of the design of internal controls,” noting that in many cases the auditor would in any case have to go beyond those controls to conduct the financial audit.

Somewhat larger companies, with capitalizations of up to $700 million, would also get less expensive audits, he said, although he conceded that details were still up in the air. The S.E.C. hopes to encourage auditors to use the work of others, and work they did in previous years, to reduce current costs, and not to focus on control issues that are unlikely to create problems even if the controls are weak.

The goal, he said, was to “relieve investors of unnecessary costs” while providing “higher-quality risk-based audits that will focus on what is truly material to a company’s financial statements.”
275 2006-11-09 WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 (AP) — Senator John McCain has resigned from the board of trustees of Gallaudet University, the world’s premier university for the deaf, after disagreeing with its decision to revoke the appointment of its incoming president, a university spokeswoman said.

The chairwoman of the Gallaudet University board, Brenda Jo Brueggemann, has also resigned, the spokeswoman, Mercy Coogan, said.

Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, wrote to outgoing President I. King Jordan on Monday, describing the board’s decision as unfair, Ms. Coogan said.

The Washington Post reported Wednesday that Ms. Brueggemann, a professor at Ohio State University, resigned and that she said in an e-mail message that she had thought about quitting since Oct. 29, when the board voted to revoke the appointment of the president, Jane K. Fernandes, after a month of demonstrations and hunger strikes by students.

Ms. Brueggemann, who had supported Ms. Fernandes, wrote in a message posted Wednesday on the university’s Web site that her personal life and work had suffered since May, when she became the board’s chairwoman. She took the job after the interim board chairwoman, Celia May Baldwin, resigned after protests over Ms. Fernandes’s appointment in May.
276 2006-11-09 BEIJING, Nov. 8 (AP) — The authorities announced Wednesday a “one dog” policy for many Beijing households as part of an effort to eradicate rabies.

The official New China News Agency said the limit would apply to nine zones in Beijing.

“Only one pet dog is allowed per household in the zones, and dangerous and large dogs will be banned,” the news agency said. “Anyone keeping an unlicensed dog will face prosecution.”

Rabies is on the rise in China, where only 3 percent of dogs are vaccinated against the disease, which attacks the nervous system. The disease nearly always kills humans after the development of symptoms, though it can be warded off by a series of injections.

Rabies killed 318 people nationwide in September, according to the news agency. There were 2,651 reported deaths from the disease in 2004, the last full year for which data are available.

In Beijing, 69,000 people sought treatment for rabies last year, according to state news media.

The Humane Society of the United States said the Chinese policy failed to address the underlying reason for the rabies crisis.
277 2006-11-09 ISTANBUL, Nov. 8 — The governing commission of the European Union on Wednesday issued its strongest warning yet to Turkey to open its ports to Cyprus and make more progress on human rights or face a possible suspension of talks over allowing the country to join the organization.

Speaking after the release of a report highly critical of Turkey’s efforts to make changes requested by the European Union, Olli Rehn, the union’s expansion commissioner, delivered what appeared to be an ultimatum to Turkey: soften the intransigence over Cyprus or risk the collapse of the European Union bid.

“Failure to implement obligations will affect the overall progress of negotiations,” Mr. Rehn warned. “This is likely to be the last opportunity to make real, serious progress for some years to come on the issue of Cyprus.”

Turkey has refused to meet an end-of-year deadline set by the European Union to open its ports and airports to the Greek-speaking part of Cyprus, which belongs to the organization. Turkey insists it will not compromise on Cyprus unless the European Union lifts a trade embargo against the northern Turkish side of Cyprus.

The report, which also highlighted shortcomings on issues like minority rights and freedom of speech, did not call for an immediate halt in the talks with Turkey. But European Union officials said the harsh tone of the report made it increasingly likely that a summit meeting of European Union leaders in mid-December would at least consider a partial suspension of the negotiations.
278 2006-11-09 Elizabeth Jane (Jennie) Gardner is said to be furious that her private letters to her sister in New England have found their way into the hands of the news media. Did she think that, just because she and legions of fellow artists are some 3,600 miles away, we weren’t paying attention? Not when Jennie crows that female artists in Paris “do just as we please.” Not when she brags that “we find no lack of gentlemen’s society.” Not when the glam-girl painter, who’s been known to wear men’s clothes and sneak into men-only artists’ classes, has taken up with her famous teacher, William-Adolphe Bouguereau. (Her painting of David as a shepherd boy, left, shows just what a diligent student she’s been!) Word is that Jennie is now engaged to Mr. Bouguereau. But don’t watch the post for your wedding invitation. His mother opposes the transatlantic union, which may have to wait until she dies.

The man-about-town James MacNeil Whistler has deserted his London digs for a return tour in Paris and all is apparently forgotten about the scandal he caused here years ago with the artistically-daring (but so chaste!) portrait of his mistress, Joanna Hiffernan, “Symphony in White, No. 1.” Ms. Hiffernan, you’ll recall, later posed for Gustave Courbet in, well, nothing at all, ending the two painters’ once-great friendship. These days Mr. Whistler, once again a darling of the French art world, is gathering followers at the American Art Association when he’s not spending hours on end at the home of the poet Stéphane Mallarmé, the Symbolist leader famed for his salons.

Is divorce in the picture for the sculptor Frederick MacMonnies and the painter Mary Fairchild MacMonnies? The dueling duo has played host to many American artists at their grand home, La Prieure, in Giverny (soothing, in the process, some complaining by Claude Monet (third from top), who resents the hordes of Americans invading his garden and begging for his time). But with Frederick spending more and more time away, in New York and Paris, Mary has taken a fancy to another American painter, Will Hickok Low. No one has witnessed their canoodling, yet!

Speaking of Monet, the master is said to be positively incensed about two very specific American painters. He’s even threatening to sell his beloved home and leave Giverny for good. It’s all because one stepdaughter, Suzanne Hoschedé, took up with Theodore Butler (their marriage was captured by the American painter Theodore Robinson’s “The Wedding March”). And now Suzanne’s sister, Blanche, is being romanced by John Leslie Breck, the son of a naval captain and a rather mediocre painter.

... that Loie Fuller, the red-haired, blue-eyed dancer from Illinois, dubbed “siren” and “enchantress” after her convention-flouting performance of “Fire Dance” at the Folies Bergère, has positively bewitched the painters James MacNeil Whistler (fourth from top) and John White Alexander, who both made her a painted lady. ... that Dennis Miller Bunker has returned to the United States and is currying favor with rich, rich, rich Isabella Stewart Gardner by painting her favorite flower, chrysanthemums, in the greenhouse of her summer home, Green Hill. He’s hoping she’ll install the painting in the museum she’s planning to create at her Boston home. ... that Julius LeBlanc Stewart, heir to a very sweet sugar fortune, has finally won the attention of critics by painting high society scenes. But one critic blasted his identifiable portraits of the “great ladies” and “dandies” of Paris’s salons and clubs, calling them “pretty picture[s] of the world’s airy nothings.” ... that the Académie Julian is finally opening a branch for women artists, but plans to charge them twice what men pay for the same art lessons!

Which American diplomat’s wife, all aglow in white in her portrait by Sargent, has been trashed as someone who “has never read a book in her life” by a none other than Henry James?
279 2006-11-09 “Yahoo might change the address of its D.R.M. server, and we can’t control that,” said Scott Erickson, a Zune product manager. (Never mind what a D.R.M. server is; the point is that Microsoft blames its partners for the technical glitches.)

Is Microsoft admitting, then, that PlaysForSure was a dud? All Mr. Erickson will say is, “PlaysForSure works for some people, but it’s not as easy as the Zune.”

So now Microsoft is starting over. Never mind all the poor slobs who bought big PlaysForSure music collections. Never mind the PlaysForSure companies who now find themselves competing with their former leader. Their reward for buying into Microsoft’s original vision? A great big “So long, suckas!”

It was bad enough when there were two incompatible copy-protection standards: iTunes and PlaysForSure. Now there will be three.

Microsoft’s proprietary closed system abandons one potential audience: those who would have chosen an iPod competitor just to show their resentment for Apple’s proprietary closed system.

To make matters worse, you can’t use Windows Media Player to load the Zune with music; you have to install a similar but less powerful Windows program just for the Zune. It’s a ridiculous duplication of effort by Microsoft, and a double learning curve for you.

So how is the Zune? It had better be pretty incredible to justify all of this hassle.

As it turns out, the player is excellent. It can’t touch the iPod’s looks or coolness, but it’s certainly more practical. It’s coated in slightly rubberized plastic, available in white, black or brown — yes, brown. It won’t turn heads, but it won’t get fingerprinty and scratched, either. It sounds just as good as the iPod.

The Zune matches the price ($250) and capacity of the 30-gigabyte iPod. But it’s noticeably thicker (0.6 inch vs. 0.4), taller (4.4 inches vs. 4.1) and heavier (5.6 ounces vs. 4.8). Battery life is the same for music playback (14 hours), slightly better for video (4 hours vs. 3.5). The three-inch screen has the same 320-by-240-pixel resolution, but it’s larger (3 inches vs. 2.5), so movies and slide shows feel more expansive.

What looks like an iPod scroll wheel, though, is a fakeout. It doesn’t turn, and it’s not touch-sensitive. Instead, it’s just four buttons hidden under the compass points of a plastic ring.

Scrolling accelerates as you press the top or bottom button, but the iPod’s wheel is much more efficient. On the other hand, the Zune’s left and right buttons jump between menus (for example, Album, Artist, Genre) with less backtracking. The software design is beautiful, simple and graced by brief, classy animations.

The Zune’s screen is taller than it is wide — unlike the iPod’s — so you can see more of your lists without scrolling. But it’s all wrong for photos and videos. So when videos or photos play, the screen image rotates, meaning you have to turn the player 90 degrees. And just as on the iPod, portrait-oriented photos are now shrunken, crammed the wrong way on the horizontal screen.

The Zune has a built-in FM radio receiver, and even shows the name of the current song, if the station broadcasts it. Reception is fairly weak, the headphones must be plugged in to serve as an antenna, and you can’t make recordings.

The big, whomping Zune news, though, is wireless sharing. The Zune has a built-in Wi-Fi antenna. (Turning it on costs you one hour of battery life.)

During the playback of any photo or song, you can view a list of Zunes within 30 feet. Sending a song takes about 15 seconds, a photo 2 seconds; you can’t send videos at all.

Your lucky recipient can accept or decline your offering — and, if you have really terrible taste, can block your Zune permanently.

It all works well enough, but it’s just so weird that Zunes can connect only to each other. Who’d build a Wi-Fi device that can’t connect to a wireless network — to sync with your PC, for example? Nor to an Internet hot spot, to download music directly?

Microsoft also faces what’s known as the Dilemma of the First Guy With a Telephone: Who you gonna call? The Zune will have to rack up some truly amazing sales before it’s easy to find sharing partners.

Microsoft is leaving nothing to chance here. The Zune will be available in 30,000 stores nationwide — versus 10,000 for the iPod, Microsoft says. Zune commercials will run several times during each episode of popular TV shows, bearing the slogan “Welcome to the social.” (Either there’s a noun missing there, or they’re using “social” as a noun, as in “ice cream social.”)

The bigger problem, though, is the draconian copy protection on beamed music (though not photos). You can play a transmitted song only three times, all within three days. After that, it expires. You’re left with only a text tag that shows up on your PC so that — how convenient! — you can buy the song from Microsoft’s store.

This copy protection is as strict as a 19th-century schoolmarm. Just playing half the song (or one minute, whichever comes first) counts as one “play.” You can never resend a song to the same friend. A beamed song can’t be passed along to a third person, either.

What’s really nuts is that the restrictions even stomp on your own musical creations. Microsoft’s literature suggests that if you have a struggling rock band, you could “put your demo recordings on your Zune” and “when you’re out in public, you can send the songs to your friends.” What it doesn’t say: “And then three days later, just when buzz about your band is beginning to build, your songs disappear from everyone’s Zunes, making you look like an idiot.”

Microsoft says that the wireless sharing is a new way to discover music. But you can’t shake the feeling that it’s all just a big plug for Microsoft’s music store. If it’s truly about the joy of music discovery, why doesn’t Microsoft let you buy your discoveries from any of the PlaysForSure stores?

The Zune offers some niceties you can’t get on the iPod. For example, any photo can be the menu background. Album artwork automatically fills the entire screen during playback. You can “flag” any song or photo for future reference on your PC. You can plug the Zune into an Xbox 360 and use its controller to play what’s on your Zune through your entertainment system.

But the opposite list — features the iPod has that the Zune doesn’t — could stretch to Steve Ballmer’s house and back 10 times.

At the very attractive but dog-slow Zune store, for example, you can either buy songs ($1 each) or rent them (unlimited songs for $15 a month). But Microsoft’s store doesn’t sell TV shows, movies or audio books. The music catalog is much smaller — 2 million vs. 3.5 million on iTunes — a fact that Microsoft ham-handedly tries to conceal by listing stuff that it doesn’t actually sell, like Beatles albums.

The Zune store is also missing gift certificates, allowances, user-submitted playlists and so on. And believe it or not, the Zune store doesn’t let you subscribe or download podcasts. (Maybe Microsoft just couldn’t bring itself to type the word “pod.”)

The Zune 1.0 player is pretty barren, too. It doesn’t have a single standard iPod amenity: no games, alarm clock, stopwatch, world clock, password-protected volume limiter, equalizer, calendar, address book or notes module.

Incredibly, you can’t even use the Zune as an external hard drive, as you can with just about every other player on earth — an extremely handy option for carting around big computer files.

Naturally, you also miss out on the 3,000 iPod accessories: speaker systems, microphones, cases, home and auto adapters, remote controls and so on. Over 80 percent of 2007 cars will have an iPod connector option — zero for Zune. And there’s only one Zune model; there’s no equivalent of the iPod Nano or Shuffle.

Competition is good and all. But what, exactly, is the point of the Zune? It seems like an awful lot of duplication — in a bigger, heavier form with fewer features — just to indulge Microsoft’s “we want some o’ that” envy. Wireless sharing is the one big new idea — and if the public seems to respond, Apple could always add that to the iPod.

Then again, this is all standard Microsoft procedure. Version 1.0 of Microsoft Anything is stripped-down and derivative, but it’s followed by several years of slow but relentless refinement and marketing. Already, Microsoft says that new Zune features, models and accessories are in the pipeline.

For now, though, this game is for watching, not playing. It may be quite a while before brown is the new white.
280 2006-11-09 FORGOING VENTURE CAPITAL -- Hundreds of Internet start-up companies are forgoing venture capital in their early stages, choosing instead to grow on a shoestring, unlike so many companies formed during the first Internet boom that were built on cos...
281 2006-11-09 The morning after a six-month roller coaster of an election season, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman stood victorious, again promising to burnish his independence in the narrowly divided Senate.      Mr. Lieberman said he spoke Wednesday morning to Sen...
282 2006-11-09 As part of a continuing effort to combat the new threat of terrorism and the older one of international organized crime, the F.B.I. opened an office in Sydney, bringing its overseas offices to a total of 74, an almost 40 percent increase in the pa...
283 2006-11-09 McCABE--Timothy John, Sr., at home on November 7th, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving children, Timothy John McCabe, Jr. and his wife Christina, Audrey, Sean and Patrick. Devoted Pop Pop of Timothy John McCab...
284 2006-11-10 Oh Representative Charles Rangel, must you really pick fights with the entire G.O.P.?...
285 2006-11-10 It's hard not to pity Deutsche Borse these days. Shortly after a source close to the exchange said it would probably fail in its efforts to win Euronext - largely because it failed to convince Borsa Italiana to join its bid for an all-European exc...
286 2006-11-10 Enron's former chief operating officer of global markets plans to raise up to $250 million in the next six months for his energy hedge fund, Bloomberg News reported citing unnamed sources. Trident Asset Management, founded by Jeff Shankman and And...
287 2006-11-10 What's next for the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially as it prepares to operate under a Democratic Congress? According to Chairman Christopher Cox, hedge funds and securities regulators could see significant changes to their operation...
288 2006-11-10 Belgium's Fortis has bought 70 percent of hedge fund manager Cadogan Management to create a business with about $3.7 billion. The new company, still named Cadogan, will combine New York-based Fortis' $2 billion in assets with Fortis Investment Man...
289 2006-11-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
290 2006-11-10 Both Visa International and MasterCard International have been named in a suit by New Zealand's antitrust regulator over alleged price fixing. The Commerce Commission contends that Visa and MasterCard fixed prices on interchange fees with banks an...
291 2006-11-10 In an effort to expand its manufacturing capabilities in the United States, Nissan Motor is looking into plants and assets unloaded by U.S. automakers. Daniel Gaudette, senior vice president of North American manufacturing and supply chain managem...
292 2006-11-10 David Bergstein is said to be interested in making another Canadian acquisition. The U.S.-based film financier recently bought independent Canadian film distributor ThinkFilm and now could be eyeing Motion Picture Distribution, The Globe and Mail ...
293 2006-11-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
294 2006-11-10 New shows in New York include "The Internationalist," "Mimi le Duck" and "Grey Gardens."...
295 2006-11-10 The dog is cute, the children are adorable, and the earth and the sky seem to stretch on without limit in “The Cave of the Yellow Dog.” Unfortunately, so does the slight story, which the writer and director Byambasuren Davaa has pulled and tugged way past its breaking point. Ms. Davaa, who, together with Luigi Falorni, directed the charming narrative documentary “The Story of the Weeping Camel,” has returned to her native Mongolia, this time with far less satisfying results. There are no weeping camels, just bleating goats and mooing cows kept by a family of nomads — played by a real family, the Batchuluuns — whose oldest daughter, a stubborn kewpie named Nansaa, adds a stray to the peripatetic farm.

As in her earlier film, Ms. Davaa follows the rhythms of everyday life on the steppes with love and attention. The children tumble on the grass, the mother makes cheese, the father minds the herds. The children tumble on the grass, the mother cleans the yurt, the father drives off to the city on a sputtering motorcycle. And so it goes.

As Ms. Davaa vainly searches for some kind of dramatic glue to pull these pretty pieces together, a soporific haze settles over the proceedings, punctuated by bursts of beauty, as when Nansaa perches on a high cliff, or when a vulture, wings stretched and toggling from foot to foot, threatens to descend on the family’s youngest child. The dog, a handsome creature with a black face and a circle on its backside, is named Zochor, or Spot. See Zochor run! Run, Zochor, run!

The Cave of the Yellow Dog

Written (in Mongolian, with English subtitles) and directed by Byambasuren Davaa; director of photography, Daniel Schoenauer; edited by Sarah Clara Weber; produced by Stephen Schesch; released by Tartan Films. At the Angelika Film Center, Mercer and Houston Streets, Greenwich Village. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Nansal Batchuluun (Nansaa), Buyandulam D. Batchuluun (Mother), Urjindorj Batchuluun (Father), Nansalmaa Batchuluun (Second Daughter) and Batbayer Batchuluun (Son).
296 2006-11-10 France successfully fired its new submarine-launched long-range M51 missile over the Atlantic in its first experimental test flight, the Defense Ministry said. The missile is designed to carry six thermonuclear warheads and has a range of up to 6,000 miles.
297 2006-11-10 The Air Force awarded a lucrative contract for search-and-rescue combat helicopters to a team led by Boeing. Boeing beat out rival Lockheed Martin and helicopter maker Sikorsky Aircraft for the contract to build 141 helicopters by 2019 for the Air Force’s fleet of rescue aircraft, known as the Combat Search and Rescue program. The initial contract award is for $712 million; the program may be worth as much as $13 billion. The helicopters will be built at Boeing’s plant in Ridley Park, Pa., near Philadelphia. About 200 new engineering jobs will be created initially, with more jobs expected as production moves forward. There are about 4,800 employees in Ridley Park, a Boeing spokesman, Joseph LaMarca Jr., said.
298 2006-11-10 These companies are by no means giving up on traditional advertising — rather, they are simply adding to their marketing strategies. “What we’re trying to do is find new ways to continue to be relevant to teens and to young adults,” said Vic Walia, the senior brand manager for Snickers, a Mars brand that created an online show called “Instant Def” with its agency BBDO New York, part of the Omnicom Group.

The “Instant Def” home page looks like a video game for teenagers. Four hip-hop performers — played by actual hip-hop stars will.i.am, Fergie, Taboo and apl.de.ap — pose in front of a gritty urban scene. A fluorescent Snickers sign blinks atop a tower in the background. A Snickers factory played a vital role in the first episode, when a candy-mix explosion gave the stars superhero powers.

So far, about one million people have visited InstantDef.com, where the five episodes are available.

Advertiser-produced content — often called branded content — is a nascent trend. Companies commonly pay to place their products in TV shows and movies, but only a few dozen have created content from scratch. About 25 national companies produced online films this year, up from 5 last year, said Matt Wasserlauf, chief executive of Broadband Enterprises, a New York company that helps companies like Warner Brothers and AT&T circulate their videos on the Internet.

On TV, only a handful of such shows and movies have been shown. The cable networks MTV, ABC Family and TNT have run shows created by advertisers. Other networks, including broadcast networks, say they have been approached by advertisers pitching shows, but have not run any.

Advertisers say they are prepared to give the shows to networks free or in exchange for commercial air time; such offers could appeal to networks looking to control costs. But some network executives voiced skepticism that advertiser-created shows would draw much audience and said, for now, they do not expect to run many of the programs.

“The networks are reluctant to give their programming air over to advertiser-funded content,” said Guy McCarter, the director of branded entertainment at OMD. “If the TV marketplace softens, then I think there’s going to be more receptivity.”

Part of the reason more advertiser shows are put on cable, ad executives said, is that cable networks often feature shows on niche topics that appeal to specific types of customers. Procter & Gamble’s show, “Home Made Simple,” based on home-making tips available on the company’s online magazine, is on TLC, for example.

When Office Max decided it wanted to produce a show, company officials approached Disney because they had already committed themselves to advertise on Disney networks. Disney put the program, a reality show about preteenagers getting ready for high school, on ABC Family. On TV, about one million households watched the show, which featured several Office Max products. It was viewed more than six million times online.

William Bonner, a spokesman for Office Max, said the show gave viewers “content they could appreciate and interact with more than a 30-second commercial.”

ABC Family worked with Office Max and its ad agency DDB Chicago in developing the show, but “Schooled” was largely driven by Office Max and its agency’s vision, said David Rolfe, production director of content for DDB Chicago. Laura Nathanson, executive vice president for ad sales at ABC Family, said “Schooled” was a special case, and the cable network did not have immediate plans to do more shows with advertisers.

“We’re in the business of original production,” Ms. Nathanson said. “Anything that’s going to go on our air, we’re going to shepherd.”

Shows and movies on Turner Entertainment “first and foremost have to fit our brand,” said Linda Yaccarino, executive vice president for ad sales and marketing at Turner, which recently ran a series of mini-shows on TNT that were produced with Chase Card Services, which is part of J. P. Morgan Chase.

Advertisers are also making movies. Nike has produced several, including a documentary on CBS about Lance Armstrong’s training for the Tour de France. Grey Goose paid for a six-part documentary that ran on the Sundance Channel and featured pairs of stars like Robert Redford and Paul Newman chatting. In both cases, the companies’ brands were not emphasized.

Last December, Mountain Dew, a PepsiCo brand, produced a movie about snowboarding that ran in theaters nationwide. Though Mountain Dew produced the movie, the soft drink was not featured in the film and only “MD Films” appeared in the opening credits. Mountain Dew and PepsiCo were thanked in the closing credits, but viewers had to be in the know to associate the movie with Mountain Dew.

Nicole Bradley, a PepsiCo spokeswoman, said the approach worked well. “Focusing on product placement would have only been a distraction,” she added.

The line between commercialization and entertainment is a tricky one, ad executives said. Before a Unilever-produced show called “The Gamekillers” was shown on MTV last spring, the network promoted it as a TV show and Unilever held off running ads related to the show. Only after the show ran were characters from it included in ads for Unilever’s Axe deodorant, said John Shea, executive vice president for integrated marketing and brand partnerships at MTV. “The last thing anyone of us wanted was for the show to feel that it was, in fact, an ad,” Mr. Shea said.

Ad executives say they expect more TV networks to accept their shows. BBDO North America is creating two shows it will pitch to networks, including a 13-episode series, said Brian DiLorenzo, the executive director of content. “Brands have potential to be good characters,” Mr. DiLorenzo said.

But persuading TV networks involves a bit of “arm wrestling,” said Jon Kamen, chief executive at @radical.media, which produces films and TV shows for advertisers. “It’s critically important that the broadcast networks and cable embrace this shift now rather than resist it,” he contended, adding they must be wary of forcing “advertisers to go elsewhere — because there is elsewhere to go.”

Anheuser-Busch is investing heavily in creating content. The beer company, known for its funny commercials, plans to put online a seven-channel televisionlike network called BudTV in February. It will feature reality shows, comedy skits, sports programs and user-generated content.

“If we do it right, then we’re going to have a pretty attractive demographic group,” said Anthony T. Ponturo, vice president for global media and sports marketing for Anheuser-Busch.

Ad executives said BudTV might be attractive to other advertisers as well.

“If BudTV can garner the right audience relative to that male 24 to 32 middle-income demographic in flyover states, there will be other advertisers that are going to want to reach that audience,” said Doug Scott, executive director for branded content and entertainment at Ogilvy North America.

Networks, magazines and sports associations like the N.F.L. have already approached Anheuser-Busch to talk about partnerships, Mr. Ponturo said. BudTV’s content, though, will “serve one master,” Mr. Ponturo said, “and that’s ourselves and our brands.”

The Ford Motor Company is filming a documentary tracking its effort to turn itself around, and is showing the film online. Since it began appearing in June, a million unique visitors have visited the Web site, said Whitney E. Drake, a Ford spokeswoman.

Consumer brand companies have been using the Internet to promote their messages through their own online magazines and blogs for several years. “The advertiser has a direct link to the consumer now,” said Nick Law, the chief creative officer at R/GA, at the Boards Summit in New York last week. “They don’t have to use an agency or production company.”

The next online phenomenon could be created by a consumer brand company, said David Droga, creative chairman of Droga5. Online hits “don’t have to be brought out by people in a garage,” he said.

It is unclear, of course, if advertisers will be able to produce shows that will hold consumer attention. “We are living in a world now where it’s harder and harder to capture somebody’s undivided attention,” said Linda Kaplan Thaler, chief executive for Kaplan Thaler Group.

Ms. Kaplan Thaler recently created a campaign for Dawn that included online shows, traditional commercials, a contest, and Ellen DeGeneres as a celebrity spokeswoman. She said advertisers had to do it all these days. “Ubiquity is the new exclusivity,” she said.
299 2006-11-10 He said taxpayers would begin seeing the relief in the summer 2007, when property tax bills and the state budget are completed.

Gov. Jon S. Corzine did not endorse a 20 percent cut on Thursday, but he also did not dismiss it. He said he needed to see the details of the plan.

“Conceptually we’re in the zone,” Governor Corzine said. “We will get there. I’m optimistic.”

The legislative leaders did not specifically detail how they would achieve a 20 percent cut, but said the plan included:

¶Establishing a new school aid formula that will provide financing based on need and include increased accountability for school spending.

¶Helping municipalities and schools find ways to consolidate, regionalize and share services.

The proposals are expected to be part of a reform package unveiled by Wednesday.

“The work of the Legislature will not be done until we are confident that hard-working families feel real relief in their wallets and long-term peace of mind,” Mr. Codey said.

Mr. Roberts and Mr. Codey later said that the 20 percent cut could be financed in part by using $1.1 billion spent on property tax rebate checks mailed each year to homeowners and $600 million earned from this year’s sales tax increase. Voters on Tuesday approved amending the state’s Constitution to dedicate half the money earned annually from that increase to property tax relief.

Mr. Codey said it could also be financed with money earned by selling state assets. Mr. Corzine’s administration is studying how the state could, for instance, lease the New Jersey Turnpike.

Mr. Roberts and Mr. Codey said the tax break would probably come with limitations.

While they said what that might involve had not been decided, Mr. Roberts noted that 95 percent of New Jerseyans who pay property taxes make less than $300,000 a year and 93 percent earn less than $200,000 a year. Mr. Codey said a new school financing formula would help all taxpayers.

In recent years, the elderly have received $1,200 in rebate checks, while others have received amounts ranging from $800 three years ago to $200 this year. Those who earn more than $200,000 a year are not eligible for rebates.

Mr. Roberts said a 20 percent property tax cut would maintain the relief for the elderly.

Property taxes in New Jersey have increased 7 percent annually in recent years.

After the four committees formally unveil their report next week, Mr. Codey and Mr. Roberts said the full Legislature will review it and write bills that will be voted on in December.
300 2006-11-10 The shift in power on Capitol Hill sets up the likelihood of a showdown between the White House and Congress over the direction of not only the N.S.A. program but also a range of other aggressive counterterrorism operations that the administration has undertaken since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

This September, the House approved legislation that would effectively authorize the government to continue the program, in which the agency, without warrants, carries out surveillance on communications into and out of the United States that are suspected of involving terrorism. But Senate legislation on the issue, backed by the White House, stalled last month.

Republicans have held out hope of getting such legislation approved by the full Congress during the lame-duck session, and Mr. Bush pushed anew on that front Thursday, calling passage an “important priority in the war on terror.”

Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who currently leads the Judiciary Committee and is the main advocate of wiretapping legislation there, acknowledged the difficulty of getting his bill through the Senate now.

“There’s been a seismic change in the Senate landscape,” Mr. Specter said in a telephone interview, “so I’m not sure exactly how all that is going to work out.”

Emboldened by their electoral victory, Democrats said they believed it would be all but impossible for the Republicans to pass wiretapping legislation before the current Congress adjourns, or to win approval of separate legislation immunizing telephone companies from liability over their cooperation in wiretapping operations.

“There’s no chance of that happening,” predicted a senior Democratic aide for the House Judiciary Committee, who spoke only on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue.

“This is a program a lot of people here thought was excessive,” the aide said of the N.S.A. operation. “There’s a history of concern here.”

Indeed, rather than move to authorize the program, Democrats said they would push in January to investigate how the program had been run and would seek legislation to restrict or ban outright the use of wiretaps without warrants.

Representative John Conyers Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is all but assured of taking over the House Judiciary Committee, has been one of the fiercest critics of the program and some other counterterrorism operations, saying he considers them abusive and potentially illegal infringements on civil liberties.

Groups that are suing the government and the telecommunications companies over the wiretapping program said Thursday that they hoped more aggressive oversight would help their cause.

“If Congress has some hearings and digs into this, we may know a lot more,” said Cindy Cohn, legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which is suing AT&T.

The Justice Department urged a federal district judge in San Francisco on Thursday to delay considering any further issues in that suit until an appeals court considers an earlier ruling of his against the government.

The government is invoking a “state secret” privilege in opposing such lawsuits, and it argued Thursday that further proceedings delving into intelligence operations “could lead to serious consequences” by compromising national security.

The judge, Vaughn R. Walker, has already rejected that argument once, ruling in July that the case involving AT&T could proceed without a “reasonable danger” that it would harm national security. It is this ruling that the government is appealing.
301 2006-11-10 “The new crowd coming into the House are mostly moderates and conservatives who were in substantial part elected on a security message,” Ms. Harman said in an interview on Thursday. “To keep our majority, we need to keep a tough and smart message on security.”

Ms. Pelosi has told colleagues she plans to replace Ms. Harman on the Intelligence Committee, possibly with Representative Alcee Hastings of Florida, although she has given no public indication of her choice for the post since the election.

Many Democrats are closely watching the decision for signs of two things: how the speaker-in-waiting will chart her party’s course on national security issues and how she will handle her first postelection test in dealing with the often fractious Democratic caucus.

“This is the battle that nobody wanted,” one senior Democratic strategist said. “For Nancy to start off her speakership with a fight is a great shame.”

In addition to pointing to her record over the past four years, Ms Harman said she was once made a promise by senior Democrats that she would assume control of the Intelligence Committee if her party regained power in the House.

“My view of this has to do with what is fair in terms of the commitments that were made to me,” she said.

The promise came in the form of a letter in 1999, when Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who was then the House Democratic leader, recruited her to try to regain her Congressional seat in 2000 after she relinquished it in 1998 to run for governor of California.

But allies of Ms. Pelosi said that when she appointed Ms. Harman as ranking member of the Intelligence Committee in 2003, her intention was always to have Ms. Harman serve only two terms.

The selection of Mr. Hastings, a black member of the committee, would win Ms. Pelosi support from the powerful Congressional Black Caucus. But his past could provide ammunition for Republicans: Mr. Hastings was impeached and removed by the Senate from a federal judgeship in 1989 on a bribery charge. (He was acquitted in the related criminal case.)

Some leading Democrats said that choosing Mr. Hastings over Ms. Harman would send exactly the wrong message at a time when Democrats were struggling to prove their bona fides on national security.

“A lot of people would be astonished,” said Leslie H. Gelb, a former president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a State Department official in the Carter administration. “I think it would send a signal that Democrats are not going to be as serious about national security as they need to be.”

Representative Silvestre Reyes. Democrat of Texas and also a committee member, has emerged as a possible compromise candidate. But Ms. Pelosi has also told colleagues that she could select someone who is not currently on the committee.

Appearing Wednesday on CNN, Ms. Pelosi said that it was her prerogative to select an entirely new Intelligence Committee at the beginning of each Congress, and that it is the one committee on which seniority rules are not recognized.
302 2006-11-10 Customers will pay less for natural gas from Public Service Electric & Gas but more for electricity. State regulators yesterday approved a drop of an average of 4.4 percent in gas bills and an increase in electricity bills of less than 1 percent, according to P.S.E.&G., which is the state’s largest utility, with 2.1 million electric customers and 1.7 million gas customers.
303 2006-11-10 Helicopters arrived 10 to 15 minutes later and fired several rockets into the hillside, said Haroon Rashid, a member of Pakistan’s Parliament representing the religious party, Jamaat-e-Islami, and who lives nearby. A Pakistani security official confirmed that pilotless drones were flying over the area in the days around Oct. 30.

The strike set off rallies and demonstrations in the tribal areas and Pakistan’s cities, protesting the high number of casualties and the perceived American involvement.

It also is believed to have prompted a revenge attack on Wednesday, when a suicide bomber killed at least 42 army recruits and wounded 20 more by blowing himself up at a military training ground. It was the deadliest terror attack ever against Pakistan’s military.

In an effort to quell the public anger over the madrasa bombing, Pakistani officials disclosed more details about the strike and the activities of Mr. Liaqat.

President Pervez Musharraf and his chief military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan, have said that the men killed were militants in terrorist training and that they were in no way innocent students.

Pakistani intelligence officials have briefed journalists and released copies of infrared camera film showing the compound and its inhabitants in the days before the bombing. In the film, lines of men dressed in loose tribal clothes are seen exercising in the yard of the compound early in the morning. In one part of the film, a bonfire is burning in the center of the yard.

The men, who appear as shadowy figures because the camera picks up their body heat and shows it as black, filter out of a building, which an intelligence official said was their living quarters, and line up in rows. Trainers walk among the rows of men, who appear to do stretches, jog in circles and at one point lie motionless on the ground.

American security officials have said that they shared intelligence of the target with Pakistan prior to the strike, which suggests that the surveillance footage came from an American drone.

The men would start their exercise at 4:30 a.m., said a Pakistani intelligence official, who gave the briefing and provided the film on a DVD and would speak only on condition of anonymity.

The strike occurred shortly after 5 a.m., hitting the men as they were exercising in the yard, causing maximum casualties. Many of the bodies were in pieces after the strike, witnesses said. Most of the dead were local tribesmen from Bajaur, with some more from adjoining areas.

Bajaur is a mountainous tribal agency north of Peshawar that runs along one of the most inaccessible areas of Afghanistan, bordering the Afghan provinces of Kunar and Nuristan, where American troops are based. It has been a base of Islamic militant fundamentalism since the 1980s, when religious tribal leaders created a local movement, Tehreek Nifaz-e-Shariat Mohammadi, aimed at setting up Shariah, or Islamic law, and supporting the jihad that was being waged in Afghanistan against the Soviet occupation at the time.

Later, two local militant leaders, Mr. Liaqat and Maulana Faqir Muhammad, members of the now-banned movement, were heavily involved in logistics, recruitment and training of fighters who were sent to fight United States and Afghan forces in Afghanistan, the intelligence official said.

Sufi Muhammad dispatched 600 local tribesmen to support the Taliban in 2001 during the American intervention, most of whom were captured or killed, the official said.

The information on the two local leaders was gleaned from the arrest in Pakistan in May 2005 of Abu Faraj al-Libbi, who was described as an important Qaeda operative. The local leaders were known to have received funds from Al Qaeda for their activities, the official said.

Recently, American and Pakistani security officials and diplomats say, foreign militants, including Mr. Zawahri, have been using the area since Pakistani military operations pushed the foreign militants out of North and South Waziristan, to the south. Even though the Pakistani government was close to signing an agreement with the tribal elders of Bajaur aimed at curbing militancy, Pakistani officials and Western diplomats admit that Mr. Liaqat was far beyond the control of the government and expressed satisfaction that he has now been removed from the scene. President Musharraf, at a dinner last week in Islamabad for Prince Charles, vowed to conduct more such strikes if necessary.

“In July, we started observing Liaqat training a few people, some 15 to 20 people,” the intelligence officer said in his briefing. “He was warned to close the facility, this madrasa. He refused to close it and vowed to continue.”

“It was a big decision for us,” he added. “There were two options. One was sending in ground troops, the other a precision strike.” Approaching the compound from the ground would have forfeited any element of surprise, he said.

“It would be like going into a hornet’s nest, and would have caused a lot of casualties to troops and civilians,” he said. “There would have been collateral damage and a long drawn battle.”

A precision airstrike, which appears to have killed only people inside the compound, would also have provided a warning to others running similar compounds in the area. “This would send a clear message that this cannot go on,” the official said. “They will meet the same fate.”
304 2006-11-10 A Boeing spokeswoman said the company did not comment on negotiations.

“We are still working with Aeroflot,” Olga Y. Kostrubina, the spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not yet over. We still believe that the 787 is the best airplane for Russia.”

The Russian aircraft industry is trying to join Airbus’s parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, as a partner, a reason analysts cited for its dragging out the decision on badly needed upgrades to the Aeroflot fleet. Buying Airbus planes would seem to dovetail with this effort.

Yet Airbus A350s, now being redesigned to better compete with the 787, will not be ready in time to meet Aeroflot’s ambitious expansion plans. Asked whether Aeroflot would rely on the new A350s, Mr. Okulov said that Airbus had “not yet confirmed its production program,” according to Interfax.

The sale has also become tied up in Russia’s efforts to revive its domestic aircraft industry in other ways. The government was holding out on the sale to encourage Boeing and Airbus to invest in Russian factories, which both companies did.

Most recently, for example, Boeing created a joint venture with a Russian titanium smelter in August to make 787 parts.

But the strategy of leveraging the sale for other industrial or political goals was pushed too far, according to Aleksandr Y. Lebedev, a billionaire owner of 30 percent of Aeroflot. Now, it seems Aeroflot has lost its chance to get a good price on new airplanes from either company, he said.

The airline, once the world’s largest, could be left with too few planes for long-haul routes to North and South America and Asia, and be forced to cut back on flights. Mr. Lebedev has threatened to sue the government for leaving Aeroflot without enough planes.

“I would advise Boeing not to be in such a hurry,” to sell the planes it had reserved for Aeroflot to another buyer, he said in a telephone interview.

Boeing, he said, would lose some money if it sold to Aeroflot under the previous contract terms, but would gain entry to Russia’s market.

“They should be willing to pay something for strategic gain,” Mr. Lebedev said. “If the Russian market is a strategic gain for them, they should not be eager to sell the airplanes to somebody else.”

MOSCOW, Nov. 9 (AP) — Russia’s defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, will head the board of a new state-controlled aircraft corporation aimed at reinvigorating the nation’s aviation industry, news agencies reported Thursday.

President Vladimir V. Putin approved the move at a meeting to discuss plans for the holding company, the United Aircraft Corporation, according to Interfax, ITAR-Tass and RIA-Novosti. Mr. Putin signed a decree on setting up the corporation in February.

The corporation groups the military plane manufacturers Sukhoi, MiG and Irkut with the civilian aircraft makers Ilyushin and Tupolev.
305 2006-11-10 WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 — During the cold war, the State Department called on the Harlem Globetrotters to travel as good-will ambassadors to counter hostile images of America around the world. During the Cuban missile crisis, the New York City Ballet was sent to perform in Moscow, where it was received enthusiastically.

And during these troubled times? America’s newest good-will ambassador is Michelle Kwan, the figure skater, who, in the words of her new boss, Karen P. Hughes, the under secretary of state for public diplomacy, “combines the power of sports diplomacy with the personal appeal of a unique American story.”

On Thursday, flanked by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Ms. Hughes, Ms. Kwan, 26, addressed reporters, giving the group a taste of what she would be telling the youth of the world.

She said she planned to share with young people, among other ideas, “In the reality of life, it’s not always smooth sailing, and sometimes you have to pick yourself up and keep on going.”

While many of the public diplomacy efforts by the United States in the past few years have been directed toward the Muslim world, it was unclear on Thursday whether Ms. Kwan would be sent to Iraq or Afghanistan. Ms. Kwan, who is of Chinese descent, said her first trip would likely be early next year, to Beijing.

“I’ve always wanted to somehow serve our country and to contribute and to make a difference,” she said.
306 2006-11-10 MINNEAPOLIS, Nov. 9 (AP) — The 3M Company, the diversified manufacturer of products ranging from Post-it notes to weather-stripping, said Thursday that it was selling its branded drug business for nearly $2.1 billion in three separate deals.

The company said the deals followed “a review of strategic options” for its drug-making units worldwide. It said it expected the sale to close in the fourth quarter.

Graceway Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Bristol, Tenn., will buy 3M’s pharmaceutical operations in the United States, Canada and Latin America for $875 million.

The Swedish drug maker Meda is buying the European pharmaceutical unit for $857 million, and an investment group led by Ironbridge Capital and Archer Capital has agreed to acquire its drug operations in the Asia Pacific region, Australia and South Africa for $349 million.

The businesses include the skin cancer treatment Aldara as well as the drugs Minitran, Difflam, Duromine and Tambocor.

The 3M Company, which is based in St. Paul, announced in April that it would try to sell the pharmaceutical unit, believing it would be worth more to a dedicated pharmaceutical company with the sales force to make it grow. The company said then that pharmaceuticals were about 20 percent of its health care division, where sales grew 4.7 percent in the first nine months of this year, slower than any other 3M unit.
307 2006-11-10 With Manager Joe Torre getting his first World Series ring after 32 aching years, with David Cone recovering from an aneurysm to pitch effectively and with Derek Jeter displaying the unmistakable signs that he might be here for a while, the 1996 Yankees were considered more humble than haughty.

“Of all the teams we’ve had over the last 11 years, it’s the only team that has been an underdog,” Torre said.

About 16 of those long-ago underdogs are expected to gather at Chelsea Piers in Manhattan tonight for Torre’s Safe at Home Foundation’s charity dinner. Everyone from Jeter to Mariano Duncan, the second baseman who coined the mantra of “We play today, we win today,” to John Wetteland, the walk-on-the-wild-side closer, are scheduled to be there. With all due respect to Mariah Carey, who is performing at the event, the players want to hear from one another.

Joe Girardi, who debuted with the Yankees a decade ago, sounded like a 7-year-old on his birthday as he described how anxious he was to hang out with his former teammates. After the hugs and high-fives, Girardi wants to talk and talk. There is a lot to discuss about a team that started a run of four titles in five years.

“When the Cardinals won this year, I thought about Charlie Hayes catching the ball,” Girardi said. “You don’t lose the feeling of how special it is.”

Like Torre, O’Neill mentioned a stark difference between the 1996 Yankees and subsequent Yankee teams.

“It was the only World Series where, if we’d lost, everybody would have still said we had a good year,” O’Neill said. “After that, it was World Series or nothing.”

Because the Yankees have not won the World Series in the past six seasons, and have played in only two of them, the accomplishments of the 1996 team and the clubs that won in 1998, 1999 and 2000 have become even more hallowed. Ten years ago, George Steinbrenner, the principal owner, was not mandating a title as fervently. The huge payroll discrepancy between the Yankees and everyone else did not yet exist. O’Neill said Yankee fans have always been supportive, but added that “the true Yankee fans” were at the Stadium in 1996.

When Torre recounts his first season with the Yankees, there are several flash points. After the Braves pounded the Yankees, 12-1, in Game 1 of the World Series, a concerned Steinbrenner visited Torre’s office and insisted the Yankees had to win the next game.

“I told him, ‘Don’t worry about it,’ ” Torre explained. “I said, ‘We might even lose tonight. But we’re going to Atlanta. That’s my town. We’ll win three there and come back here and win it for you on Saturday.’ With that, I walked out.”

That is exactly what happened. So, was Torre really that confident? “I said it in a kidding way,” he said.

The Yankees had a tense start to the 1996 season because Torre, Tino Martinez and Girardi had replaced Buck Showalter, first baseman Don Mattingly and catcher Mike Stanley, respectively. All three were popular figures.

Still, Torre felt strongly enough about the Yankees’ chances to mention winning a championship during a 20-minute introductory meeting with the players in spring training. Torre sensed the players were just as serious as him about that goal.

Torre said perhaps the most pivotal developments of the season occurred after the Yankees deduced in late April that Mariano Rivera could be a dynamic setup man to Wetteland. With the Rivera-Wetteland tandem, Torre said, “We felt if we played hard for six innings, no one was going to beat us.”

In the end, no one did beat the Yankees, but several teams came close. The Yankees watched a 12-game cushion in the American League East in late July shrink to two and a half over the Baltimore Orioles in September. At one point, General Manager Bob Watson said he and Torre should be dismissed if the Yankees botched the lead.

In the playoffs, the Yankees lost the opener of the division series to the Texas Rangers before rebounding. If Jeffrey Maier did not interfere with Jeter’s fly ball in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series, the Yankees might have lost the opener (and they did lose Game 2). And, of course, Atlanta won the first two games of the Series.

“Joe reminded us if we stayed together as a family, we’d be O.K.,” Girardi said. “He was living that with his own family when he said it.”

Torre received word between games of a doubleheader in Cleveland in June that his brother Rocco had died. When Torre went to the wake, he put the lineup card from the second game, the one Rocco missed, in the casket. Frank, Torre’s other brother, had a heart transplant the day before the Yankees won it all.

Cone was despondent when he found out in May that he had an aneurysm in his right armpit, causing the Yankees to worry about the pitcher’s well-being, not his career. But Cone returned in September and, in his first game, pitched seven no-hit innings. He also stifled the Braves in Game 3 of the Series. Dwight Gooden threw a no-hitter in May, the day before his own father had heart surgery.

“Just a lot of things happened around that team,” Torre said. “They made us stronger.”

Those strong Yankees survived an unforgettable season and ended up being better than anyone. Torre said the team adopted O’Neill’s personality: ornery and unwilling to lose. O’Neill shrugged off that compliment. He remembered it simply as the year the ground shook, the year the Yankees finally won.
308 2006-11-10 At its core, Ms. Willis’s work was rooted in the three R’s, which for her were radicalism, religion and rock. But little escaped her scrutiny, and over the years, her writings embraced subjects as diverse as psychoanalysis, the O. J. Simpson trial, Monica Lewinsky and “The Sopranos.” To Ms. Willis, each of these was a strand in the contemporary social fabric, and her responsibility as critic was to map out the complex ways in which they interlaced.

In an essay in The New York Times in 1999, Ms. Willis wrote:

“The Lewinsky scandal has prompted an impassioned national conversation on the relationship of the political to the personal, public authority to private behavior; on sexual privacy versus ‘family values’; on female sexual autonomy and victimization. Granted, the affair has also produced an outpouring of schlock with no redeeming social value. But far from vindicating the eat-your-vegetables school of journalism, the schlock suggests what’s wrong with it. Arguably, just as Victorian repression produced a thriving pornography industry, the exclusion of sex from ‘serious’ news media produced tabloidism. As this taboo passes into history, there should be more room for a public conversation on sex that is neither coy nor prurient, but simply frank.”

Though Ms. Willis liked to describe herself as an anti-authoritarian democratic socialist, she was leery of extremism of either stripe. An outspoken advocate of women’s sexual empowerment, she also publicly condemned feminists who wanted to ban pornography. (She was disturbed by what she viewed as their Puritanism, and by the threat to free expression.) She also took some members of the American left to task for what she saw as anti-Semitism thinly veiled as political animus toward Israel.

“My education was dominated by modernist thinkers and artists who taught me that the supreme imperative was courage to face the awful truth, to scorn the soft-minded optimism of religious and secular romantics as well as the corrupt optimism of governments, advertisers, and mechanistic or manipulative revolutionaries,” Ms. Willis wrote in an essay collected in “Beginning to See the Light: Pieces of a Decade” (Knopf, 1981). She continued:

“Yet the modernists’ once-subversive refusal to be gulled or lulled has long since degenerated into a ritual despair at least as corrupt, soft-minded, and cowardly — not to say smug — as the false cheer it replaced. The terms of the dialectic have reversed: now the subversive task is to affirm an authentic post-modernist optimism that gives full weight to existent horror and possible (or probable) apocalyptic disaster, yet insists — credibly — that we can, well, overcome. The catch is that you have to be an optimist (an American?) in the first place not to dismiss such a project as insane.”

Ellen Jane Willis was born in Manhattan on Dec. 14, 1941; her father was a lieutenant in the New York Police Department. Reared in the Bronx and Queens, she earned a bachelor’s degree in English from Barnard in 1962 and afterward did graduate work in comparative literature at the University of California, Berkeley.

Ms. Willis was divorced after an early marriage. She wed Mr. Aronowitz, her longtime companion, in 1998. She is survived by Mr. Aronowitz, a distinguished professor of sociology at the City University of New York and the Green Party candidate for governor of New York in 2002; their daughter, Nona Willis-Aronowitz, of Manhattan; two siblings, Michael Willis of Johannesburg, South Africa, and Penny Willis of Queens; four stepchildren, Michael O’Connell of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Kim O’Connell of Montclair, N.J.; Alice Finer and Hampton Finer, both of Brooklyn; and two step-grandchildren.

Ms. Willis’s other books include “No More Nice Girls: Countercultural Essays” (University Press of New England, 1992); and “Don’t Think, Smile! Notes on a Decade of Denial” (Beacon Press, 1999).

Despite her anti-authoritarian positions — or perhaps because of them — she confessed to being constitutionally hopeful, however unfashionable that might seem. In the essay from “Beginning to See the Light” she described the condition this way:

“My deepest impulses are optimistic, an attitude that seems to me as spiritually necessary and proper as it is intellectually suspect.”
309 2006-11-10 Cirque du Soleil undersells “Delirium” by billing it as a concert. The show, which started a two-night stand at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday and moves to Nassau Coliseum tomorrow and Sunday, is an anthology of songs from previous productions, and it takes place in sports arenas rather than Cirque du Soleil’s custom-built structures. The songs have lyrics for the first time, mostly in English. But music is the least of the show’s attractions.

“Delirium” is a full-scale spectacle, with nearly four dozen performers in Cirque’s usual array of acrobatic feats and technical razzle-dazzle, eerie tableaus and phantasmagoric costumes, all tied together with internationalist music and kitschy profundity. “Life begins and ends as a question that has no answer,” a voice intones at the start. “We are fragments of eternity floating through space and time.” Uh, O.K.

The stage runs the length of the arena, with spectators on either side and multistory floor-to-ceiling scrims and video screens. “Delirium” has even less narrative than most Cirque shows; it’s just the crazy dream of a character who spends most of the show dangling from a balloon, dancing along to the music and action that is below and sometimes alongside him. Another character races around on stilts, gibbering and kibbitzing, while women loom as larger-than-life singers — one wears a tent dress the size of a circus tent, holding an entire dance troupe — or ethereal spirits. Eventually the balloon man finds love.

Along the way, with towering video projections on the scrims, there are allusions to the ancient elements as well as to science (giant red blood cells) and to Nature, with one magnificent scene that has the troupe performing amid giant vines. The production is also about geometry, from the symmetries of four acrobats supporting one another in gravity-defying formations to spherical balloons to giant curved platforms that can suggest boats or precipices.

The songs are rooted in the 1980s: that era of booming drumbeats, gauzy synthesizer tones, gothic grandeur and newly discovered international beats. The music in “Delirium” features stately rock marches tinged with exotica, Peter Gabriel style. (The backup band, Gaia, has plenty of hand drums.) There’s Senegalese-style singing and percussion — from two brothers who arrive in grand robes, El Hadji Diouf and Karim Diouf — as well as tango violin, quasimedieval chants, samba drumming and Miles Davis-tinged jazz-rock. Amanda Stott belts an electropop song, “One Love,” that a younger Madonna wouldn’t spurn. Robbie Dillon’s lyrics, well, they run along the lines of “The door is open/but your mind is closed.”

But the music doesn’t have to hold the foreground — not with Cirque du Soleil’s visuals. Dancers bound and skitter across the stage; trapeze acts hang in fabric cocoons; a woman twirls half a dozen silvery hoops while still looking slinky. The big beat just adds to the enveloping, hallucinatory splendor.
310 2006-11-10 A spokesman for Kazakhstan’s Foreign Ministry, Yerzhan N. Ashykbayev, said his country had nothing to do with Russia’s decision.

Russian officials here maintained they had not actually banned “Borat” but simply recommended that it not be issued a certificate of distribution, a decision that the distributor could challenge, first within the agency and then in court. The agency’s decision was reported on Thursday in the newspapers Kommersant and The Moscow Times, which both described the move as a ban.

“We do not have the right to ban a movie,” Mr. Vasyuchkov, who runs the agency’s department that grants licenses, said in a telephone interview. “Something can be banned only on the basis of a court. We simply refused to certify it.”

Mr. Schlicht indicated that 20th Century Fox would not challenge the agency’s decision. He declined to comment on it in detail, but also declined to characterize it as an outright ban.

“Russia is a liberal country; they don’t forbid showing films,” Mr. Schlicht said. “They make recommendations, and we follow them.”

It is impossible to say how much the decision could cost 20th Century Fox, but moviegoing has expanded exponentially here in recent years, allowing Hollywood films to add millions of dollars to total earnings. By Tuesday, “Borat,” which opened last Friday, had taken in more than $32 million in ticket sales in the United States, and, by Monday, more than $20 million in other countries. The Russian agency’s action does not necessarily mean that the film will not be seen in Russia. Piracy is so rampant here that illicit DVD’s are often readily available within days of a film’s release. “Borat” includes crude language and behavior, like naked men wrestling. But it also depicts its hero — who, while not explicitly Muslim, is from a country with a large Sunni Muslim population — as deeply backward, deeply prejudiced and deeply foolish. Mr. Vasyuchkov said the film “could be offensive to some nationalities and religions” in Russia, which has a large Muslim minority, estimated to number from 14 million to 23 million, as much as 16 percent of Russia’s population.

Several predominantly Muslim countries have barred the distribution of the film, including Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman and Qatar, according to Gregg Brilliant, a spokesman for Fox.

Daniil B. Dondurei, editor of the magazine Iskusstvo Kino, or Art of Cinema, said he thought the Russian decision was purely a political one, though with several motives.

He, too, cited ethnic tensions, highlighted by a nationalistic march last weekend, but also close relations between Russia and Kazakhstan and a taboo in Russia against satirical depictions of national leaders or political systems. (In 2000 the Kremlin pressured a satirical television program, since canceled, to drop a puppet depicting President Vladimir V. Putin.)

Mr. Dondurei said that as the Soviet Union collapsed, Russia adopted a very liberal attitude when it came to what was shown in theaters and on television, where sex, violence and vulgarity are still found in abundance. “You can see things that would be impossible in America,” he said.

He noted, however, that there were limits. While there have been public complaints in Russia about movies like “The Da Vinci Code” — and recently a concert by Madonna — he described the move against “Borat” as “a unique case,” though one that could reflect a nascent desire to control, once again, what Russians see.
311 2006-11-10 REMINE--Shields. Affectionately remembered. Lionel and Lloyd...
312 2006-11-10 Seventh Regiment Armory  643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street  Through Monday       A predominance of prominent dealers exhibiting 20th-century Modernist work and a sprinkling of younger galleries showing zesty contemporary art characterizes Art20, a k...
313 2006-11-10 McCABE--Timothy John, Sr., at home on November 7th, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving children, Timothy John McCabe, Jr. and his wife Christina, Audrey, Sean and Patrick. Devoted Pop Pop of Timothy John McCab...
314 2006-11-10 There are your everyday whims, and then there are the whims of a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer. The writer in this case is Suzan-Lori Parks, who decided one afternoon in 2002 that she would write a play a day for a year. Ha! Neat idea.     Well, f...
315 2006-11-10 A PEEK INSIDE A HEDGE FUND -- A securities filing by Fortress Investment Group, which manages a $26 billion hedge fund and is planning to sell shares to the public, provides a rare peek behind the curtain of secrecy that typically governs the worl...
316 2006-11-10 Opens today in Manhattan 

Directed by Byambasuren Davaa 

In Mongolian, with English subtitles 

Not rated; 90 minutes 



The dog is cute, the children are adorable, and the earth and the sky seem to stretch on without limit in ''The Cave of the Yellow Dog.'' Unfortunately, so does the slight story, which the writer and director Byambasuren Davaa has pulled and tugged way past its breaking point. Ms. Davaa, who, together with Luigi Falorni, directed the charming narrative documentary ''The Story of the Weeping Camel,'' has returned to her native Mongolia, this time with far less satisfying results. There are no weeping camels, just bleating goats and mooing cows kept by a family of nomads -- played by a real family, the Batchuluuns -- whose oldest daughter, a stubborn kewpie named Nansaa, adds a stray to the peripatetic farm.

As in her earlier film, Ms. Davaa follows the rhythms of everyday life on the steppes with love and attention. The children tumble on the grass, the mother makes cheese, the father minds the herds. The children tumble on the grass, the mother cleans the yurt, the father drives off to the city on a sputtering motorcycle. And so it goes.

As Ms. Davaa vainly searches for some kind of dramatic glue to pull these pretty pieces together, a soporific haze settles over the proceedings, punctuated by bursts of beauty, as when Nansaa perches on a high cliff, or when a vulture, wings stretched and toggling from foot to foot, threatens to descend on the family's youngest child. The dog, a handsome creature with a black face and a circle on its backside, is named Zochor, or Spot. See Zochor run! Run, Zochor, run! MANOHLA DARGIS 



Photo: Nansalmaa Batchuluun and Zochor in ''The Cave of the Yellow Dog,'' by Byambasuren Davaa. (Photo by Tartan Films)
317 2006-11-10 France successfully fired its new submarine-launched long-range M51 missile over the Atlantic in its first experimental test flight, the Defense Ministry said. The missile is designed to carry six thermonuclear warheads and has a range of up to 6,...
318 2006-11-11 Commish has returned. Thank you for sharing your vacation stories. They made me feel less foolish for sitting in a car in a parking lot with a borrowed laptop, stealing Wifi from the adjacent building in the wooded hills of central Missouri, just ...
319 2006-11-11 It remains to be seen whether St. John’s will be a better team this season, but the Red Storm will definitely be a different team. Relying heavily on perimeter shooting and the hot hand of the newcomer Avery Patterson, St. John’s began the 2006-7 season last night with a 74-53 victory against North Florida in the opening round of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at Carnesecca Arena.

St. John’s was a physical, defensive-oriented team last season that received much of its offense from interior players, a formula that did not always work. The Red Storm struggled to score points, finished with a 12-15 record and failed to make the Big East tournament. But Coach Norm Roberts has given the team a degree of versatility by adding Patterson, a junior college transfer, and the freshmen Larry Wright and Qa’rraan Calhoun.

Patterson, who started, was not shy about throwing up jumpers from beyond the 3-point arc. He led St. John’s with 24 points, all of them coming on 3-pointers, to help establish a team record for most 3-pointers in a game. Patterson, who was 8 for 15 from the field, attempted only one 2-point shot. “Every shot I took, I felt like it was going in,” Patterson said. “I am a shooter. That’s what shooters are supposed to do.”

Patterson played for Iowa Western Community College last season, where he averaged 20.3 points a game and was a second-team junior college all-American.

St. John’s made 13 3-pointers, breaking the previous record of 12, set in 1999. Wright made two 3-pointers, and Anthony Mason Jr., Eugene Lawrence and Calhoun had one each.
320 2006-11-11 Bill Walsh, the Hall of Fame coach who built a dynasty with the San Francisco 49ers and revolutionized football with his West Coast offense, disclosed yesterday that he had leukemia.

“I’m positive, but not evangelistic,” the 74-year-old Walsh told The Santa Rosa Press Democrat and The Sports Xchange Web sites. “I’m pragmatically doing everything my physicians recommend.”

Walsh said his cancer was first diagnosed in 2004, but that he was feeling better after a series of blood transfusions in the past month.

Walsh won three Super Bowls as the coach of the 49ers, turning them into the most successful team of the 1980s with his innovative offensive strategies and coaching techniques.
321 2006-11-11 The Securities and Exchange Commission will propose rules next month raising asset requirements for investing in hedge funds after one fund, Amaranth Advisers, lost $6.5 billion on bad natural gas trades.

The changes will be proposed to the S.E.C.’s five commissioners at a December meeting in Washington, the agency chairman, Christopher Cox, said yesterday. He did not specify how the agency might limit the pool of hedge-fund investors.

“We’re going to make it very clear that hedge funds are risky investments that are not for mom and pop by fencing it off with higher standards to accrediting investors,” Mr. Cox said in an interview.

Hedge funds are open to individuals with at least $1 million in assets or at least $200,000 in income for the last two years, and also institutions like insurance companies, mutual funds and pension funds. Since Amaranth collapsed in September, lawmakers have become increasingly concerned that a hedge fund meltdown could put pension fund investments at risk.

Mr. Cox said at the meeting on Dec. 13, the S.E.C. would also propose a hedge fund anti-fraud rule as well as new guidelines to help companies and auditors interpret the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate governance law in a way that saves time and money.

The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, has asked Mr. Cox and the Treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. to figure out ways to increase transparency in the $1.3 trillion hedge-fund industry, which is largely unregulated. A federal appeals court in June rejected rules requiring hedge funds to register with the S.E.C. The agency wanted funds to report their size, number of employees and types of clients, and submit to random inspections.

Mr. Cox said that the shift in control of Congress to the Democrats should not impede efforts to revise corporate governance laws.
322 2006-11-11 MIAMI, Nov. 10 (Reuters) — A Florida voter may have unwittingly lost hundreds of thousands of dollars by using an extremely rare stamp to mail an absentee ballot in Tuesday’s election, a government official said Friday.

The stamp, a 1918 Inverted Jenny, which takes its name from an image of a biplane accidentally printed upside-down, turned up Tuesday night in Fort Lauderdale, where election officials were inspecting ballots from parts of South Florida, John Rodstrom, a Broward County commissioner, told Reuters.

Only 100 of the stamps have been found, making them a top prize in philately.

Mr. Rodstrom, a member of the county’s canvassing board, said he spotted the red and blue Inverted Jenny on a large envelope with two stamps from the 1930s and another dating to World War II.

The nominal value of the four vintage stamps was 87 cents, he said.

“I thought, ‘Oh, my God, I know that stamp; I’ve seen that stamp before,’ ” said Mr. Rodstrom, 54, who dabbled in stamp collecting as a boy. “I’d forgotten the name. I just remembered there was a stamp with an upside-down biplane on it and that it was a very rare, rare stamp.”

He said that he did not examine the envelope’s postmark, but it had no return address. The ballot was disqualified because it gave no clue of the voter’s identity.

Election officials have been too busy certifying the outcome of Tuesday’s race to have the stamp authenticated, Mr. Rodstrom said.
323 2006-11-11 Not only has the lawsuit pitted pickler against pickler, it has also thrown into question the future of a Lower East Side institution as revered as Russ & Daughters food store and Katz’s Delicatessen. It has torn historic pickle alliances asunder. And it has devastated the surviving daughters of Izzy Guss, the original storied pickler supposedly known as the “Botticelli of Brine.”

“After my father passed away, what we sold was our name. That name was gold,” said Marilyn Guss Altman. “To think that all of this stuff is going on is breaking my heart.”

Who owns the name now? Now that is a real pickle.

Izzy Guss arrived in New York from Russia as a youngster about 1910, sold pickles from a pushcart and opened a shop on Hester Street in 1920. It outlived dozens of its rivals, was moved to Essex Street and eventually became one of the neighborhood’s last pickle stores. Izzy Guss died in 1975. Four years later his family sold the business to Harold Baker, whose son, Tim, a pickle apprentice and then master, eventually took over the place.

Guss’s Pickles had a long-running relationship with another New York pickle family, the Leibowitzes, who co-own United Pickle in the Bronx. United Pickle often supplied Guss’s with its cucumbers. It is also the largest family-owned pickle wholesaler on the Eastern seaboard, according to Andrew Leibowitz’s father, Steve, who proudly describes himself on business cards as CPM, or Chief Pickle Maven.

Around 2001, Mr. Baker said, he and Andrew Leibowitz decided to open another Guss’s Pickles shop in Cedarhurst.

Neil Zipkin, Andrew Leibowitz’s lawyer, says that his client also acquired the rights to the Guss’s Pickles name and formula and that he has documents proving the ownership. But Mr. Baker disputes that claim, saying he never sold the name to the Leibowitzes.

“No money was exchanged; he did not purchase anything,” said Mr. Baker, who is not involved in the lawsuit. “If I sold it, it was done under false pretenses.”

Andrew Leibowitz set up Crossing Delancey Pickle Enterprises, named after the Amy Irving movie that was filmed at Guss’s Pickles, then on Essex Street. He opened the Cedarhurst store and began selling Guss’s Pickles nationwide.

In January 2004, Mr. Baker decided to get out of the pickle business to care for his ill mother in Florida. He sold the Lower East Side Guss’s Pickles to Ms. Fairhurst, whose son, Roger Janin, had worked in the shop for years. She got the recipes, too.

Keeping Guss’s Pickles in the Lower East Side was paramount, Mr. Baker said. “Its roots are in Manhattan,” he said.

Ms. Fairhurst and Mr. Janin adhere painstakingly to the store’s traditional ways, selling pickled vegetables year-round from barrels outside the store and closing for Shabbat, though they are not Jewish. “It’s always been that way,” she said. “Down here, it’s not much left. We’re the last of the old-time pickle makers, and everybody knows it.”

Everything was going well, she said, until she received a letter from Andrew Leibowitz in February warning her that she could no longer represent herself as the owner of Guss’s Pickles. “I was dumbfounded,” she said. Then she saw Andrew Leibowitz’s Web site, www.gusspickle.com, which declares, “Others claim to be Guss’ Pickles or affiliated with Guss Pickles, but that is not true!”

Ms. Fairhurst found another supplier and stopped buying cucumbers from United Pickle in the summer, though she continued to use the Guss recipe. Mr. Zipkin said any remaining right that Ms. Fairhurst might have had to say that she was selling Guss’s Pickles was lost after she switched suppliers.

“We’re not the big bad guys,” Mr. Zipkin said. “We’re just the true owners.”

While the pickle standoff continues, both stores are still selling what each claims are authentic Guss’s Pickles. Lower East Side locals, for their part, said they cannot imagine the neighborhood without Guss’s.

“This is something that is integral,” said Dara Lehon, deputy executive director of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District. “You can’t come to the Lower East Side without having a Guss pickle.”
324 2006-11-11 But analysts say PlayStation 3 is the only product currently visible in Sony’s development pipeline with real “champion” potential.

“Sony needs PlayStation 3 to save the company,” said Masashi Morita, a game and Internet industry analyst at Okasan Securities in Tokyo. “A lot depends on this one product.”

But before it can rescue Sony, PlayStation has to recoup its own development costs. The games division lost $369 million in the most recent quarter, which ended in September, because of the new console’s development costs and marketing preparations, the company said.

Sony will not disclose the total cost of creating the PlayStation 3, which has been in development for six years. But analysts say the sum reaches into the billions of dollars. Sony has revealed that it spent $2 billion on one major component alone, the high-speed Cell microprocessor, co-developed with I.B.M. and Toshiba.

With such vast investments, analysts estimate Sony will have to sell 30 million to 50 million units just to break even. To be the sort of mega-hit that Sony needs, analysts say the new game console will at the minimum have to outdo its predecessor, PlayStation 2, which has sold 106 million units since 2000.

The PlayStation 2 franchise is so well established that in September the Sony console (now heavily discounted) outsold the newer Xbox 360 in the United States, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm in Port Washington, N.Y. An important psychological milestone will be met if Sony can fulfill its original target of selling six million consoles worldwide by the end of March. Production delays may prevent Sony from even producing that many consoles by then.

Those problems delayed the PlayStation introduction for several months in Japan and the United States, shrinking production to about two million units by the end of this year. The introduction in Europe has been delayed until mid-March.

Sony is also counting on PlayStation 3 to promote other technologies that it has developed, the Blu-ray next-generation DVD drive as well as the Cell chip. These technologies give the new PlayStation more processing power and sharper graphics than rivals, but also makes it expensive: a model with a 60-gigabyte hard drive will list at $599 in the United States, and one with a 20-gigabyte drive will be $499.

That is about twice the price of its biggest competitor in Japan, Nintendo’s Wii game console, which will cost $249.99 and is scheduled to come out on Nov. 19 in the United States and Dec. 2 in Japan.

And even at those prices, most analysts say, Sony will be selling below production costs, and possibly losing hundreds of dollars a machine.

Another challenge is that while PlayStation 3 should have no problem attracting game enthusiasts, mostly males in their 20s and 30s, it may prove too complex and expensive for other buyers. Analysts warn that Sony could lose huge swaths of potential users, like women and teenagers, to cheaper, simpler rivals like Wii or Xbox 360.

Only 100,000 PlayStation 3 consoles will be available on Day 1 in Japan, the company said. About 400,000 consoles will be available for sale on Nov. 17 in the United States, where the 20-gigabyte model will be priced at $499 (compared with $399 for an Xbox 360 with comparable capacity).

While this shortage has helped make the console a hot commodity on the Internet, analysts warn that it has also discouraged some software makers from developing games for fear the market may be too small. Sony says it will have only 21 software titles available for PlayStation 3 in the United States by year’s end. Nintendo says it will have 62 titles for Wii available, while Microsoft says there will be 160 titles for the Xbox 360 by the end of this year.

“It’s crucial to build up momentum for new products in the early days,” said Masayuki Otani, deputy chief of research at Maruwa Securities in Tokyo. “PlayStation needs a broader range of software to appeal to a broader range of users.”

Even with so much at stake, Sony’s chief executive, Mr. Stringer, appears to have taken a hands-off approach, at least in public. Indeed, he was traveling in Beijing recently, serving as host at events and meeting a member of China’s ruling politburo.

He has left PlayStation 3, and by extension possibly the fate of his company, in the hands of Ken Kutaragi, president of Sony’s video game division. The father of the PlayStation line of game consoles, one of the few genuine hits to come out of Sony in recent years, Mr. Kutaragi has spent much of the last half- decade developing the newest PlayStation.

When pressed, Mr. Kutaragi acknowledges that the machine is “not cheap.” But he says he has followed the right strategy in favoring powerful new technology over cheaper alternatives. He pointed out that PlayStation 2 was also expensive at first, but its price eventually dropped by half as increasing sales drove down production costs. He also said the thrill of the newer PlayStation’s graphics and complex games will draw users despite the price tag.

“Success doesn’t depend on whether PlayStation is expensive or not,” Mr. Kutaragi said during a roundtable discussion with reporters in September, “but rather on whether the games are interesting.”

Large electronic stores in Tokyo girded for the introduction by deploying security guards and traffic cones to direct the lines of buyers, who began gathering Friday evening.

In Akihabara, Tokyo’s neon-drenched electronics district, Kazunari Yasuda, a manager at Yodobashi Camera, said his store was bringing in some 200 extra employees and guards to handle the buyers.

“PlayStation 3 is the biggest product launch of the year,” he said.

One of those in line was Takahiro Watabe, a 23-year-old university student who stood with four classmates, each holding a bag of fast-food hamburgers to eat while waiting.

“This is like a festival,” said Mr. Watabe, as he looked at the line of about 100 buyers as long as an entire city block. “PlayStation means something to us.”

“I don’t think the new PlayStation is too expensive,” he added. “If you consider it has a Blu-Ray drive, you can use it as a DVD player as well as a game machine.”

Yoshiaki Tajima, a 32-year-old manga comic illustrator, said it was “a question of whether the performance is worth the price.” He was at a different store earlier in the week to look at a wall-size display with television screens promoting PlayStation 3. “These graphics really are amazing,” he concluded, after pausing. “Yes, I have to say it looks like it’s worth the price.”

Another shopper, though, was less enthusiastic. Natsuki Inoue, 27, said she thought only young male game fanatics would go for the new PlayStation.

“This is a toy for men,” she said, as a screen flashed an image of a woman in an iron bikini cleaving a dragon’s head. “It’s hard to imagine women or children wanting this. It’s just too much.”
325 2006-11-11 Senator John McCain of Arizona is about to form an exploratory committee for a possible presidential campaign, advisers said, taking a concrete step toward a full-blown campaign in 2008.

Advisers to Mr. McCain said he had not made up his mind whether to run, although he has acknowledged that he is strongly considering doing so.

“There’s not going to be a formal announcement this year,” John Weaver, an adviser to Mr. McCain, said. The senator, who appears at or near the top of public opinion surveys about who should run for higher office, will wait until the Christmas holidays, when his children are home, to make a final decision, Mr. Weaver said.

“It’s incorrect to characterize it as a formal decision or a final decision,” he said.

Even so, the move is likely to speed up an already accelerated presidential race, in which candidates on both sides barely waited for the midterm elections to end before leaping ahead to the next campaign.

The sudden shift in power in Congress does not appear to have slowed the rush. On Thursday, Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa declared his intention to run; other Democrats, including Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, have said they are thinking about it and have made trips to Iowa, the home of the first caucuses.

Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, widely considered the front-runner for the Democratic nomination, has been more coy about her intentions. Mrs. Clinton used her minimally contested Senate re-election campaign as an excuse to avoid questions about the presidency until last Tuesday; since her landslide victory she has said she is taking a break before addressing 2008.
326 2006-11-11 Taylor Twellman can sound like a walking sports cliché, offering practiced lines like “I don’t look far ahead” or “Every game could be your last game.”

But coming from a family with deep roots in professional sports, he has been nurtured in answers that are as optimistic as they are formulaic. This year alone, his upbeat attitude has helped Twellman transcend a World Cup disappointment and a death in his family to reach the promising position in which he now finds himself.

Twellman, 26, will lead the New England Revolution into tomorrow’s Major League Soccer championship game against the Houston Dynamo in Frisco, Tex. It will be his third chance to win an M.L.S. title since he joined the league and the Revolution in 2002. It might also be his last.

With a league-leading 75 regular-season goals over the past five seasons, Twellman has caught the attention of teams in Germany and England. After the game tomorrow, he may opt out of the final year of his contract to return to Europe, where his professional career began.

All of this could be viewed as redemption.

Twellman was not named to the United States World Cup roster when it was announced in May even though he had established himself as one of the country’s most dangerous forwards. He won the M.L.S. Most Valuable Player award in 2005 and led the Revolution to the title game, where it lost to the Los Angeles Galaxy. He scored his first goal for the national team in October 2005 in a 2-0 victory over Panama in the final game of World Cup qualifying. In January, he scored three goals in a friendly match against Norway.
327 2006-11-11 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Nov. 10 — The Giants’ locker room was a raucous place two days before the team’s showdown with the Chicago Bears. Players stole one another’s shoes and criticized one another’s clothing. The target of most of the jokes was Adrian Awasom, the chubby-faced second-year defensive end out of North Texas.

Two weeks ago, Awasom was on the practice squad, but when LaVar Arrington was lost for the season with an Achilles’ injury and Osi Umenyiora sustained a hip injury against the Cowboys on Oct. 23, Awasom was promoted to the roster.

Awasom, who has never started a game in the N.F.L., could replace Michael Strahan, who is sidelined two to four weeks with a sprained right foot.

“We have all of those defensive linemen working together in different spots and that will end up being a game-time decision,” Coach Tom Coughlin said. “He is ready to go.”

Umenyiora and another defensive end, Justin Tuck, will most likely miss the Bears game, along with linebacker Brandon Short (quadriceps). “I am not worried about the guys that are playing right now,” Coughlin said. “We’ve just got to put the emphasis on those that are playing and make sure they are prepared. They know what they are doing and they know what their responsibilities are.”
328 2006-11-11 San Antonio, still defined by the eight-time All-Star Tim Duncan and guards Tony Parker and Manu Ginóbili, added center Francisco Elson, a free agent from Denver who showed in a season-opening victory against Dallas that he might match up pretty well against the five-time All-Star Dirk Nowitzki.

The teams behind them upgraded too.

The Grizzlies drafted Rudy Gay and Kyle Lowry and acquired Stromile Swift from Houston. A playoff team the past three seasons, Memphis will be better once the 2006 All-Star Pau Gasol returns from a broken foot.

The Hornets built around the 2006 rookie of the year Chris Paul by adding the big man Tyson Chandler, the three-time All-Star Peja Stojakovic and the former N.B.A. sixth man of the year Bobby Jackson. Their 4-0 start was the best in their history.

Besides the versatile Battier, the Rockets signed Bonzi Wells, a star for Sacramento in last year’s playoffs; Kirk Snyder; Vassilis Spanoulis and the sharp-shooting Steve Novak. The Rockets, anchored by the All-Stars Tracy McGrady and Yao Ming, defeated Dallas by 31 points in their home opener.

“The standard is obviously San Antonio and Dallas,” Houston Coach Jeff Van Gundy said. “They’re going to win near 60 games. If you want to get up to their level, that’s where you’re going to have to get to.”

And for the other three teams in the division, who have to play the Spurs and Mavericks four times each, that’s a formidable task.

The Rockets went 34-48 last season, but 1-15 against the Southwest.

“I wish we had a college type of thing where you get to schedule your own games,” Van Gundy joked. “Bring in Prairie View.”

The Grizzlies went 31-21 against the Western Conference last season, but 6-10 in the division. They lost all four meetings with the Spurs and went 1-3 against the Mavs in the regular season before Dallas swept them in the first round of the playoffs.

“If you could pick and choose your division, it would make it very interesting,” said Memphis Coach Mike Fratello. “But it doesn’t work that way.”

Dallas Coach Avery Johnson says the Southwest is unquestionably the league’s best division, and the Mavs have a taste of how good it is already. The losses to San Antonio and Houston were part of an 0-4 start, the worst in franchise history.

Of course, after drilling the Mavs on Saturday night, the Rockets promptly lost in New Orleans on Sunday.

“I felt it was difficult last year. I think it’s going to be another war this year,” Johnson said.

Avery Johnson, the N.B.A. coach of the year in 2005-6, his first full season leading the Mavericks, said that the rigors of the Southwest would make his team better.

“We like the challenge,” Johnson said. “We talk to our team about embracing that challenge.”

McGrady doesn’t care what division the Rockets play in. The way he sees it, every team has to go through everyone anyway.

“Night in, night out, that’s what we’ve got to deal with,” McGrady said. “But you definitely want to go up against the best competition. And to be the best, you’ve got to beat the best.”
329 2006-11-11 Many in the crowd said they were not gay, and had come to show support for civil rights in what has become a contentious annual affair in this religious, conservative city.

Jerusalem Open House, a gay and lesbian group, has held a similar event for the past five years, and the buildup this year was again marked by staunch opposition from Jewish, Muslim and Christian leaders, who rarely find points of agreement.

“If it was up to me, I would send the gay community, who insisted on celebrating in Jerusalem, to Sodom and Gomorrah,” said Eli Yishai, one of Israel’s deputy prime ministers and the leader of Shas, an Orthodox party that belongs to Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s governing coalition.

Noting that Christian and Muslim clerics also opposed the event, Mr. Yishai told Israel Radio, “If we cannot be sensitive to Jewish feelings, perhaps we can listen to those of other religions.”

In liberal, secular Tel Aviv, gay-themed events take place without a ripple. But in Jerusalem, there is always friction.

Last year, a 10-day international gay festival was planned for Jerusalem in August, and faced strong opposition from religious groups. The event was canceled when the Israeli government scheduled the planned withdrawal of Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip at the same time, and Israeli security officials expressed concern that they would be stretched too thin.

Instead, a local march was held last year, when an Orthodox man stabbed and wounded three participants.

This year, some Orthodox leaders again expressed strong opposition in advance of the march. On several nights during the past week, young men in the Orthodox neighborhood of Mea Shearim rioted, throwing stones at police officers and burning garbage in the streets.

“I think there has been a general weakening of the rule of law in Israel, and some people feel they can trample on the rights of others,” said Noa Sattath, a leader of Jerusalem Open House.

In recent months, members of a parliamentary committee held two lengthy debates on the event. Israel’s Supreme Court rejected several petitions seeking to bar it.

The Vatican on Wednesday urged the Israeli government to cancel the rally, saying it would “prove offensive to the great majority of Jews, Muslims and Christians, given the sacred character of the city of Jerusalem.”

With the police serving as mediators, the march was first postponed and moved to a part of the city dominated by government buildings, regarded as a secure area.

But after the Israeli military killed 18 Palestinian civilians in a shelling attack in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday, the Israeli security forces went on a heightened state of alert to guard against a Palestinian attack. The police sought an even more secure location for Friday’s rally, and moved it to the Hebrew University stadium. They blocked off streets for a half-mile in all directions.

Orthodox leaders agreed not to stage protests on Friday. However, in a one-man demonstration, Rabbi Yehuda Levin, who flew in from Brooklyn, denounced the rally from the front gate of the stadium.

“They are making a statement against God himself,” said Rabbi Levin, of the Union of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States and Canada. “They are creating bad feelings. They are not being tolerant of our feelings.”

Also, the police said they had detained about 30 gay activists who sought to march from a park in Jerusalem, and held five Orthodox men in the same area who were found with knives.
330 2006-11-11 It was a remark, says Representative Charles B. Rangel, uttered with regional pride rather than rancor. But he apologized nonetheless.

On Wednesday, the day after the Democrats won a House majority, Mr. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat poised to become chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which writes tax legislation, talked about winning back more of the tax revenue that New York State sends to the Treasury. He said, “Mississippi gets more than their fair share back in federal money, but who the hell wants to live in Mississippi?”

Apparently, a lot of people do, and they are not shy about saying so.

Charles W. Pickering Jr., a Mississippi Republican and a colleague of Mr. Rangel’s, was the first to publicly take umbrage. He reacted as if he and his state had been slapped with a glove.

“Mr. Rangel owes the people of Mississippi an apology,” he said in a statement. “I hope his remarks are not the kind of insults, slander and defamation that Mississippians will come to expect from the Democrat leadership in Washington, D.C.”

Mr. Pickering, who is from Laurel, Miss., marched to his peroration.

“From the coast to the Delta to the Pine Belt to the hills and across Mississippi,” he said, “there is beauty in every city, charity in every heart, love in every church, and majesty in every countryside.”
331 2006-11-11 WESTCHESTER dog owners are upset over plans to limit their pets’ ability to run free in Ward Acres Park in New Rochelle. A city proposal for a $1.5 million renovation of the 62-acre park recommends that dogs be allowed off leash only during certain hours and kept in a fenced-in area except during designated periods in early morning and weekday evenings.

“We’d no longer be experiencing the park in the same way,” said Kathy Judd, 48, of New Rochelle, one of several people walking their dogs off leash in the park last Wednesday morning. “It’s a disruption to the community that comes here.”

Owners can be fined up to $25 for not keeping their pets leashed on public property, but a lack of enforcement gave dogs the run of Ward Acres for decades, said dog owners and city officials. Officials said there had been few complaints about unleashed dogs.

Both sides agreed the park, a former horse farm, needed improving: at least five different types of invasive vines are choking the natural flora; trees are drowning in marshy areas as a result of poor drainage; and some of its trails are overgrown and difficult to use. The city’s plan recommends giving dogs a three- to five-acre off-leash space and full access to the park before 11 a.m. and after 5 p.m. until dusk on weekdays, and only before 10 a.m. on weekends.

Mayor Noam Bramson, who does not own a dog, said that he hoped the park renovations would improve its ecological health and that the limitations imposed on dogs would make the park more inviting to everyone.

“This is a reasonable balance that demonstrates respect for dog owners,” Mr. Bramson said, “while making clear that the park belongs to all 76,000 residents of our city, not just one group.”
332 2006-11-11 Then, as can be seen in the accompanying charts, 41 percent of all American corporate borrowers earned ratings of A or better; now the figure is 16 percent. Then, 23 percent earned ratings of B or worse; now the figure is 39 percent.

In Europe, the same trends are under way, but are less far along. There the median rating has fallen to BBB from A. But most newly rated companies are happy to be rated lower than that. In fact, 69 percent of them get junk ratings. And while a decade ago 4 in 10 European borrowers could boast AA or better ratings, now the figure is only 8 percent.

Buyers seem more and more willing to accept lower quality credit. Ms. Vazza reports that in the United States even better quality junk bonds are becoming rare. Among new high-yield issues in the third quarter, 45 percent were rated B– or lower. That is a very low rating.

And yet default rates remain low. S.& P. reported this week that just 1.3 percent of all corporate bonds went into default over the last 12 months, while the figure in Europe is just 0.5 percent. It expects the United States rate to rise to 3.5 percent by early 2008, but that is still below historic averages.

Some companies that would have defaulted in earlier times, Ms. Vazza said, can avoid that fate simply by refinancing their debts. Lenders, including hedge funds and private equity funds, retain a lively appetite for risk.

There is something circular here: Almost no one defaults because almost everyone can borrow. That defaults are few reassures lenders there is little danger.

There will be a catch one of these days. If and when credit tightens — in the sense that lenders are less willing to lend to poor credits — then many companies are likely to find that they are in trouble that they cannot ride out without new loans, which would be unavailable. The problem could be particularly acute if it came when the country was in a recession.
333 2006-11-11 “C.S.R. is a misguided attempt by a subcategory of business managers to deal with the crisis of corporate legitimacy,” said Isaac Post of the Competitive Enterprise Institute. Russell Roberts, an economist at George Mason University, said: “Doesn’t it make more sense to have companies do what they do best, make good products at fair prices, and then let consumers use the savings for the charity of their choice?” Their essential point is that companies are simply not equipped to “save the world” — nor is it their mission. That’s what governments are supposed to do.

The truth is, though, companies have rarely viewed their role solely as generating profit. Do the shareholders come first — above other “stakeholders” (a favorite buzzword at the conference, by the way, encompassing customers, employees, activists, and so on)? Of course. And in hard times, when profits evaporate, social goals tend to disappear as well. But there is something a little too nihilistic about so narrow and mercenary a goal; most people want more purpose than that. Back in the 1950s and 1960s, the major American companies tended to underwrite many of the large, important endeavors in their headquarters cities: the opera, the big charities, the museums, and so on. These were clearly peripheral to what the company did, but nobody seemed to mind. Nor did they care that the money came out of the shareholders’ pockets.

Much of that old paternalism died as the global economy heated up, and “shareholder value” became the modern mantra. And in fact, what initially spurred the modern corporate social responsibility movement was the rise of nonprofit activist groups, which pushed and prodded — and boycotted — companies to force them toward, say, treating workers better in developing countries.

But then the thing took on a life of its own. Nike, which had been the subject of fierce criticism in the 1990s over the labor practices in the factories it engaged to make its goods, decided it made sense to go the other way completely. It has worked to raise labor standards in the factories it does business with, and now has an extensive monitoring program. Its customers took comfort in that, and so did its employees. Did it help sales? It’s hard to say. But no one’s complaining that shareholder money is being wasted. That’s what the culture was demanding.

Most recently, the environment has taken center stage; indeed, it would be hard to think of anything that has done more to propel the corporate social responsibility movement than the realization that global warming is a real phenomenon with potentially dire consequences. So corporations have raced to get on the right side of that issue.

“We struggled with climate change at Ford,” said Niel Golightly, who was formerly Ford Motor’s corporate responsibility maven. (He recently moved to Shell.) “We were among the first in the industry to openly acknowledge it,” — and that was something, he added, that he took pride in. Ford also worked to make its plants “environmentally responsible,” to use the words on its Web site.

In fact, virtually all of the companies at the conference have set goals for reducing greenhouse gases, and making their operations more energy efficient. I talked to Mark F. Buckley, the vice president for environmental affairs at Staples. He waxed on about how the company had set carbon reduction goals, and had reduced the energy used per square foot in its stores by 14 percent. It was working to help its customers recycle, and reducing the environmental impact of its own branded products. “And it makes the company money,” he said.

From the left, the essential criticism of corporate social responsibility is that it is little more than window-dressing, intended to give companies a good name without having to back it up with real deeds. “There is a whole lot of lip service,” said Judith Melby of Christian Aid, a British-based aid group — and a tough critic of corporate behavior. But when you actually see what these companies are doing, at least the ones at the conference, it is hard to write it off as all window-dressing. Surely, it’s a good thing that companies are trying to lower their energy costs and become more environmentally sensitive. Will that alone solve the problem of global warming? Hardly. But I wound up thinking: why not? It’s better than nothing. And the fact that most corporations are now facing up to the problem of global warming instead of denying it — that’s real progress.

But as to whether it really is “core” to their business, that struck me as another question entirely. “It always makes sense for people to act more responsibly,” said Paul Hawken, the co-founder of Smith & Hawken and a well-known corporate critic and environmentalist. “But what are they responding to? They are responding to stakeholder pressure. To the zeitgeist. To their own internal cultures, as employees retire and younger people take their place. But,” he added, “corporate social responsibility is a very safe place to talk about these things. By safe, I mean it doesn’t challenge the business model.”

And he’s right about that. McDonald’s may support sustainable fisheries, but its core business is still selling Big Macs. Big oil companies can talk all they want about reducing greenhouse emissions but they are still drilling for hydrocarbons. And Ford Motor, well, think for a minute about the predicament that company is in.

When William Clay Ford Jr., great-grandson of the founder, first became chairman in 1999, he talked up his environmental credentials. And internally, Ford has had a first-rate corporate social responsibility program. But for most of his tenure as both chairman and chief executive (he recently stepped down as C.E.O.), the bulk of Ford’s profits have come from gas-guzzling trucks and S.U.V.’s — even as Toyota was working on hybrids and other autos that get better gas mileage and are better for the environment. Would Mr. Ford and his company have been better off if he had taken those environmental values and applied them to the core business of making cars? It’s hard to imagine it could have made things worse.

“Bill Ford understood that we needed to be prepared for better fuel economy,” Mr. Golightly said, “but those things are difficult to do.”

On the second day of the conference, Amory Lovins, co-founder of the Rocky Mountain Institute, made a passionate speech laying out a logical — if quite radical — plan for significantly lowering energy consumption. He showed pictures of prototypes of aerodynamic automobiles that used light-weight materials and could get three to five times better fuel economy. The people in the audience were dazzled — as was I — but I couldn’t help thinking that that kind of radical new auto design, which spoke directly to the business model of the auto industry, wasn’t about to happen anytime soon. It’s a lot easier to come out against global warming than it is to change, fundamentally, the way you do business.

“Value systems change,” said Dr. Daniel Vasella, the chief executive of Novartis, during his keynote, “and it is our duty to adapt our behavior when and where appropriate.” That’s really what has happened here: as the values of Western consuming culture have changed, companies have begun to change with them. That is what the rise of corporate social responsibility really represents.

If the movement takes that next step — if it really does become about the core business model — it won’t be because corporations have led the way. It will be because the rest of us have.
334 2006-11-11 But throughout, she has remained conscious of her role in chipping away at the restrictions women face in this region.

“Every day and night, I think about how the girls need to change,” Sheika Lubna said emphatically. “Ultimately, I am out there for them.”

THE United Arab Emirates have one of the fastest growing economies in the Middle East, and also have one of the most open societies in the Persian Gulf. Women are afforded many freedoms and are encouraged to work and take part in public life. But ultimately this is a traditional society for local women, where marriage and family are still central in a woman’s life, where the law favors men in issues of family and where many women opt for reliable government jobs or simply choose to stay at home.

But with the outside world crashing into Emirati homes, and divorce rates on the rise, women must be better prepared to take care of themselves than their mothers’ generation, Sheika Lubna and other women here argue.

As a woman who challenged all the societal rules in the 1970s, working her way up the ranks as a computer engineer, then a chief executive and a government minister, she has sought to prove to women here that they, too, must begin assuming a greater role in public life.

Her family is the ruling family of the emirate of Sharjah, the emirate neighboring Dubai; her uncle is the ruler. As royalty, she faced even more traditional demands than most. Moreover, she never really needed to work, and if she chose to, she could have opted for a low-key job in a ceremonial role or as a bureaucrat.

She chose the hard way, however. When other women were staying home in the late 1970s, Sheika Lubna left for California to study computer engineering, becoming one of the first Emirati women to travel abroad for study.

“She has always been a woman in a man’s world, and maybe some of these things might not have looked right at the time,” said Farouk El-Baz, director of the Center for Remote Sensing at Boston University, who is a confidant of the sheika and a close friend of the family. “She’s a person who cannot take ‘no’ for an answer. She would think about any challenge thoroughly, then begin to tackle it.”

When she returned in 1981, she took a job as a programmer for an Indian software firm called Datamation, working as the sole woman on a team of mostly Indian programmers — something virtually unheard of in the day. She parlayed that experience into a job at the Dubai Ports Authority, where she rose to being an information technology manager, developing a documentation system that helped reduce the time needed for paperwork from one hour per ship to 10 minutes.

That led to the creation of an online marketplace for supporting purchase orders for companies in Dubai’s free-trade zones, and later led her to start a business-to-business auction site, Tejari, on the eve of the dot-com collapse. That company survived the rout, and today it does business throughout the Middle East.

BUT when she received the telephone call in late 2004 asking her if she was willing to be nominated as a minister, Sheika Lubna was surprisingly ambivalent, she said. She had been planning to enroll in a Ph.D. program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the high-stress position would have delayed her studies, she said.

“When I got the call I thought, ‘I don’t want to do this. I want to go to M.I.T.,’ ” she said. “But the call for the country never goes away. It would be the first time a woman took a powerful position in cabinet. I was a change agent, but I would now become a role model.”

This spring, when American senators and representatives got up in arms over the planned sale of some operations at major American ports to DP World, Sheika Lubna’s former employer, she traveled to Washington without an entourage and became one of the most public faces of the United Arab Emirates.

As she set out to advocate for the Emirates, people at home, especially young women seeking to break out of the traditional mold, saw a different message: it was time to rise to the challenge.

“We were misunderstood because no one knew anything about us,” Sheika Lubna said as she recounted the political firestorm that erupted over the ports deal. “But we have a responsibility to explain ourselves and who we want to be.”

She won over many Americans with her folksy, girl-next-door charm, seeking to settle stereotypes and misconceptions about the Arab world and usher the United Arab Emirates onto the world stage.

When an American businesswoman asked her if women could work in the Emirates, she answered, matter-of-factly, “I was the C.E.O. of a company,” and continued the conversation.

When another asked her if women could drive in her country, she noted that she had spent years commuting between her home in Sharjah and Dubai, but she admitted wryly that she was glad to now have a driver.

“Women always told me, ‘you’re a sheika; why are you doing all of this?’ ” she said with a degree of amazement. “But when you break out of the mold, you can break all the taboos. I had nothing to refer to, but I did have a blind belief that this is the right path.”
335 2006-11-11 Senator John McCain of Arizona is about to form an exploratory committee for a possible presidential campaign, advisers said, taking a concrete step toward a full-blown campaign in 2008.     Advisers to Mr. McCain said he had not made up his mind ...
336 2006-11-12 Brazil defeated Germany, 25-16, 25-22, 25-15, to advance to the semifinals of the women’s world volleyball championships yesterday in Osaka, Japan.

The Brazilians improved to 6-0 in the tournament. Russia also improved to 6-0 by beating the United States, 25-20, 25-21, 25-17, and will meet Brazil in its final second-round match today.
337 2006-11-12 BANGKOK, Nov. 11 — A United Nations envoy met Saturday in Myanmar with both the leader of the military junta and the detained pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, at a time when Myanmar is under closer scrutiny by the Security Council.

Ibrahim Gambari, the United Nations under secretary general for political affairs, is visiting two months after the Security Council voted to put Myanmar, formerly Burma, on its agenda. The United States envoy, John R. Bolton, has said that he planned to file a resolution condemning the repressive military government but would wait to see the results of Mr. Gambari’s visit.

Secretary General Kofi Annan said he wanted the four-day visit to produce “tangible steps forward” on human rights and political freedoms.

Special envoys from the United Nations have visited Myanmar over the years but have had little effect on the conduct of the junta, which took power in 1988 and canceled the results of a democratic election in 1990 when it lost to Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party.

Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has been under house arrest for 11 of the past 17 years. The last time she was allowed to leave, according to wire service accounts, was in May when she was similarly driven in a government car to meet Mr. Gambari.

At that time, Mr. Gambari was the first foreigner to be allowed to see her in more than two years.

Earlier Saturday he met with the country’s leader, Senior Gen. Than Shwe. On Friday Mr. Gambari was taken to see a meeting of the National Convention, which in October resumed its on-again, off-again 13-year task of preparing a constitution. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy, is boycotting the convention.

Also on Saturday the International Committee for the Red Cross said it had halted field operations in Myanmar, mostly in clinics, after warnings from the government, Agence France-Presse reported.
338 2006-11-12 Since then, he has been the subject of a hunt that has involved some 2,000 American troops and 1,000 Iraqi security officers, who flooded the middle-class Karada neighborhood outside the Green Zone and surrounded Sadr City, where the military and his relatives said they believed he had been taken.

Last week, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki demanded that American troops lift the security cordon that they had placed around Sadr City. The checkpoints were quickly removed, and little has been heard since about progress in the search.

The case took a turn late last week when Entifad Qanbar, an associate of Ahmad Chalabi, the influential Iraqi politician, identified himself as the soldier’s uncle and said that the kidnappers had issued a $250,000 ransom demand. American officials had been meeting with an intermediary trusted by those who had captured his nephew, he said. Mr. Qanbar said that he had asked for proof from the captors that his nephew was still alive, setting a deadline of noon last Saturday.

But he has not had any contact with the kidnappers or their representatives since then, Mr. Qanbar said Saturday.

Several people who claim to know the captors have contacted family members, indicating that he is still alive, he said. The family has also reached out to people on their own, who have given them assurances about his well-being, he said. “God willing, I hope he is alive.” .

Relatives believe a notorious Mahdi Army militia commander named Abu Rami who lived near the wife’s home in Karada took Specialist Taie. Mr. Qanbar said Saturday that he had been told that the commander operated a well-organized criminal ring that functioned independently from the militia, whose members ostensibly claim loyalty to Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric.

American and Iraqi troops have followed up on some 335 tips from Iraqi citizens about Specialist Taie’s disappearance, leading to 53 missions, said Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, a military spokesman. The most recent mission took place in Sadr City on Friday, in which five men were detained, he said.

The soldiers in the raid were looking for a death squad leader who “controls the actions of multiple cells, with hundreds of cell members, that conduct sectarian murder and torture, kidnappings, improvised explosive devices attacks and other attacks and crimes against Iraqi civilians and Iraqi security forces,” the military said in a statement.

The soldiers seized six makeshift bombs and an array of Iraqi Army uniforms, the statement said. Military officials declined to identify the specific target of the raid, but confirmed it was part of its efforts to find Specialist Taie.

In all, 38 people have been arrested and held for questioning in connection with Specialist Taie’s capture, Colonel Garver said.

The attack Saturday on the minibuses took place near Latifiya in the so-called Triangle of Death, an area plagued by Sunni insurgents. The bus had been on its way from the mainly Shiite southern city of Diwaniya to Baghdad, Iraqi state TV reported.

The twin car bombs that killed six people in the capital struck Hafud al-Qadi Street near the Shurja market, an area crowded with stores.

Earlier in the day, another roadside bomb exploded in eastern Baghdad, killing at least one person and wounding five others, an Interior Ministry official said. Another concealed bomb that detonated Saturday evening in the western Baghdad Sunni neighborhood of Amariya killed three people and wounded three others, the official said.

The police also discovered the bodies of 25 people dumped across the city on Saturday, the official said.

OSLO, Nov. 11 (Agence France-Presse) — Norway’s Defense Ministry on Saturday said that three Iraqi military officers attending a NATO training course here had been reported missing.

“The three officers didn’t show up for their first lesson on Monday,” said a spokeswoman for the Defense Ministry. “The police have been looking for them ever since.”

The three officers were part of a group of 25 Iraqi military and police personnel attending a weeklong NATO training session on international law. The group arrived in Norway a week ago and its members were believed to have had visas that were valid for the duration of the session. The others in the group returned to Iraq on Friday, the spokeswoman said.
339 2006-11-12 “They’re in a position now where they have nothing to lose,” Jimmie Johnson, who leads the Chase by 17 points over Matt Kenseth, said in a telephone interview Thursday.

Johnson lost to Stewart last week in Fort Worth because he had to worry first about the points race. Johnson took four tires on his last pit stop; Stewart took two, kept the lead and won the race.

“From what I saw all day, Tony had by far the best car,” Kenseth said in a conference call last week. “Racing for wins is how you race for a championship. I mean it pays the most points to win the race, and it pays the most points to lead laps. That’s how you race to win a championship.”

Not necessarily. A Nascar champion can be less than brilliant, but he cannot be inconsistent. Kasey Kahne has won six races this season, the most in the series, but he is in 10th place because he has not finished three Chase races and six over all.

Stewart, who missed the Chase by 16 points, would not be in contention if the former point system, which is used for the first 26 races of the season, continued during the Chase. According to the racing Web site Jayski.com, Stewart would be in fourth place, 387 points off the lead.

Stewart won the Pepsi 400 on July 1 at Daytona International Speedway, but he failed to place in the top 25 in the two races before that and the two after it. Kahne won Sept. 3 at California Speedway and finished third Sept. 9 at Richmond, clinching a spot in the Chase; Stewart finished 9th and 18th and missed the Chase.

The standings were reconfigured after that to give only the 10 Chase drivers a chance to win the championship. Stewart’s recent run has become Exhibit A of the inefficiency of the points system.

“I was never a fan of the Chase when they started it,” Johnson said. “But that first year, I saw how the fans reacted to it, and I was all for it. I’m not a fan of changing the Chase, but I do feel that the points need to reward performance.”

By performance, Johnson meant winning. Johnson has won five races, four more than the third-place driver, Dale Earnhardt Jr. But Earnhardt is only 78 points behind Johnson and is still alive in a bid to win his first championship.

Had the 10 Chase drivers not been given point bonuses after 26 races and had their placements staggered by increments of 5 points, only Johnson and Kenseth would have a chance at a championship under the points system used in the old Winston Cup. (According to Jayski.com, Kenseth would actually lead Johnson by 35 points.)

“If you look at the whole year and you don’t just look at the last three weeks, I think that, you know, we’ve probably run the best other than the 48,” Kenseth said, referring to Johnson by his car number, “so I think we should be first and second.”

Johnson, who has never won a championship, said that if he was running in the top 10 for most of today’s race, he would focus his attention on staying ahead of Kenseth so he could retain his lead going into the final race of the season.

“Something crazy could happen, and it could be a five-man race going into Homestead,” Johnson said. “But I feel great with where we are. I feel we’re in a position to race for the championship, and that’s really all I can ask for.”

Kenseth has problems other than the points system; he has finished out of the top 10 in three of the last four races. “We’re still close to Jimmie, but we’re certainly not running in the league that he’s running in,” he said.

They would be in the consistency-seeking league, not the gamble-taking league.
340 2006-11-12 Re “Rise Up in Darkness,” by Lawrence Downes (Appreciations, editorial, Nov. 7):

“Darkness Visible,” William Styron’s memoir about his struggle with crushing depression, opened up a world of suffering to me that my professional training as a social worker had failed to do.

Reading Mr. Styron’s book reminded me of what I felt most deeply about my profession — that I was called to help give voice to the silenced.

Mr. Styron’s insistence that his depression was every bit as real an illness as a raging infection forced me to accept an entirely new way of knowing about mental illness, and I became empathic where I had been coolly analytic.

“Darkness Visible” allowed me to realize the profound difference between Mr. Styron’s experience and what I thought I knew about the disease, and it transformed me.

Mr. Styron’s was a voice for suffering, but his work was also a testament to hope and to the ultimate power of subjectivity and willpower in recovery.

Suzanne England

New York, Nov. 7, 2006

The writer is the dean of the New York University School of Social Work.
341 2006-11-12 But the financial penalties were nothing compared to the rehabilitation project confronting this hitherto invisible player in the global marketplace.

For years, ChoicePoint’s top management had assured the world that it carefully protected its databases from intruders: Our systems are bulletproof. Intruder-proof. Believe us.

But then, in February 2005, the company had to acknowledge that it had focused so intently on preventing hackers from gaining access to its computers through digital back doors that it had simply overlooked real-world con artists strolling unnoticed through the front door.

Ultimately, ChoicePoint found that in 2005 alone, more than 40 phony businesses — thieves masquerading as bill collectors, private investigators, insurance agents and the like — had opened accounts that gave them unfettered, round-the-clock access to the vital data ChoicePoint maintains. And, suddenly, the same privacy advocates that ChoicePoint had generally cast as shrill and ill-informed — a group that those inside the F.T.C. sometimes refer to as the “privacy posse” — proved crucial to its plans to both shore up its security and tend to its tattered image.

“I have to give them a lot of credit,” said Daniel J. Solove, a posse member in good standing who had long been counted as one of ChoicePoint’s most persistent critics. Mr. Solove, an associate professor at the George Washington University Law School, is among those whom ChoicePoint contacted shortly after its public relations debacle crested. “ChoicePoint had the attitude: ‘We want to make our privacy practices exemplary,’ ” Mr. Solove said. “They wanted to find out what kinds of things they could do better and get feedback about some of the ideas they were thinking about.”

For ChoicePoint, said James Lee, the company’s chief marketing officer, the entire episode has proved an important learning experience. “The reality is, we were never as evil as people thought we were,” Mr. Lee said, “but we were never as good as we thought we were.”

Inside ChoicePoint, situated in a leafy office park in this suburb north of Atlanta, employees whistle with wonder over the talents of the various con artists — or “fraudsters,” as company executives tend to call them — who finessed their way into their systems. According to the company, the fraudsters were wise enough to secure business licenses, thereby lending them a patina of legitimacy. They knew precisely what to write on their applications to convince ChoicePoint that their credentials made them fit for access to its databases.

“These guys were more sophisticated than anyone thought,” Mr. Lee said, echoing the sentiment of many inside the company.

But the F.T.C. seemed to reach the opposite conclusion in a 33-page report it released earlier this year, after it completed an investigation of ChoicePoint. The commission found that ChoicePoint ignored “obvious red flags” because the company “did not have reasonable procedures to screen prospective subscribers.” The report cast ChoicePoint’s criminal interlopers as sloppy and amateurish — but ultimately successful because their prey, a major company in the business of handling sensitive information, was alarmingly lax in its protection of its data repositories.

Signs that it was amateur hour inside ChoicePoint abounded, according to the F.T.C. report. The fraudsters faxed applications to ChoicePoint from a neighborhood Kinko’s, listed post office boxes as primary business addresses and offered cellphone numbers as sole telephone contacts — which no one at ChoicePoint ever bothered to call anyway to establish the numbers’ legitimacy. In at least one case, an approved applicant failed even to provide a last name, the F.T.C. found.

As ChoicePoint executives say, the fraudsters sometimes took the trouble to register their businesses with the state — but those documents should have set off alarms rather than justify the granting of an account.

The F.T.C. found that ChoicePoint accepted articles of incorporation that had been suspended or had expired, and “tax registration materials that showed that the business’ registration was canceled.” Then there were the contradictory addresses in the submitted documents — discrepancies that ChoicePoint employees accepted “without conducting further inquiry to resolve the contradiction,” according to the commission’s report.

“It was a well-known fact back then that ChoicePoint would do business pretty much with anyone who came along,” said Robert Douglas, an information security consultant and editor of PrivacyToday who has done consulting work for ChoicePoint for several years. “They were making all the right noises about security but there wasn’t any follow-through to back up their words.”

Inside ChoicePoint, they like to say that the company is in the business of helping customers make informed decisions about whom they can trust. Insurance companies and banks use its databases to help them decide who is a good credit risk and who is not. ChoicePoint sells its services to employers screening new hires, to landlords running background checks on new tenants, and to the 7,000 law-enforcement agencies and governments worldwide that the company counts as clients. Other customers include bill collectors, private investigators and media outlets, including The New York Times.

Yet a company with the snappy motto — “smarter decisions, safer world” — failed to use its resources to assess and then protect itself from some of its own customers. In some cases, the F.T.C. found, individuals were granted accounts “notwithstanding the fact that ChoicePoint’s own internal reports on the applicant linked him or her to possible fraud.” The company continued to furnish consumer reports to customers, the commission said, “even after receiving subpoenas from law enforcement authorities between 2001 and 2005 alerting it to fraudulent accounts.”

Finally, in September 2004, ChoicePoint began to recognize that it had a major problem on its hands, when an employee in the company’s new-accounts office realized that someone in the Los Angeles area, a Nigerian, was trying to set up multiple accounts, each time in the name of a different business. The employee recognized the Nigerian’s voice and alerted the company’s security department, which in turn notified the local police. Although weeks would pass before senior executives learned of the troubling transactions with the Nigerian, the unfolding scam — and others like it — opened the eyes of outsiders to dangerous security lapses inside the company.

“I can assure you that now we learn immediately about this kind of problem,” said ChoicePoint’s chief executive, Derick V. Smith.

CHOICEPOINT was created in 1997 when Equifax, one of the big three credit reporting agencies — the others are TransUnion and Experian — spun off one of its divisions. Back then, the unit that would become ChoicePoint was involved in the labor-intensive and barely profitable business of maintaining claims histories on behalf of insurance companies. It also administered physicals, drug tests and the like for clients. Mr. Smith and Mr. Curling, who together ran what was then called the Insurance Services Group, foresaw a promising market in peddling data about individuals to a wider group of customers, and they convinced higher-ups that their unit should venture off on its own.

Since then, ChoicePoint has acquired more than 70 smaller companies and bought whatever databases it could get its hands on, including motor-vehicle reports from counties around the country, police records, property records, birth and death certificates, marriage and divorce decrees and criminal and civil court filings. These records had long been publicly available, but automation and superfast computers meant that comprehensive data dossiers could be assembled in seconds.

“It used to be that a business would have to go to 10 or 20 different vendors to get the same information that ChoicePoint sells in a single report,” said Chris Jay Hoofnagle, a senior researcher at the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley, and a privacy advocate.

That approach has certainly proved lucrative. The company’s stock price has quadrupled in nine years, and its revenue has, too, topping $1 billion in 2005. That growth has come despite stiff competition from two other companies of similar size that market background information about ordinary Americans: Acxiom, a publicly traded company based in Little Rock, Ark., and the LexisNexis Group, a division of Reed Elsevier. Many smaller companies are also in the business.

ChoicePoint sees itself as playing an essential, if not noble, role in the information economy. It has — at a reduced rate — helped nonprofits working with children identify registered sex offenders who applied for jobs, and it has provided the data that allowed the police to track down hundreds of missing children. Mr. Curling and others inside ChoicePoint argue that if there were no data brokers, home loans would take that much longer to secure and insurance rates would be based not on a person’s driving record but on broad demographic categories, such as age and gender. Sure, breaches have been a problem, but theirs is still a young industry, ChoicePoint executives say.

“It takes time to establish best practices,” Mr. Smith said.

It also took a state law. The data thieves who conned their way into ChoicePoint’s system downloaded information about at least 166,000 individuals. In years past, the company would alert law enforcement officials when it suffered a data breach, according to Mr. Lee, and leave it at that. But under a California disclosure law passed in 2003, the company was required to notify every Californian whose personal details might have fallen into criminal hands.

“No one knows for sure, and no one can say, how many breaches occurred before California,” Mr. Hoofnagle said. “This is an ‘known unknown,’ as Donald Rumsfeld would say.”

RATHER than send letters only to the 42,000 Californians whose records had been downloaded by the fraudsters, ChoicePoint mailed a notice to all affected consumers, telling them that their personal information might have fallen into the hands of identity thieves. Critics chided ChoicePoint for waiting about five weeks to contact consumers, but the company said it first needed to set up and staff a call center to handle the anticipated deluge of complaints.

“We knew that in all likelihood the first time that they were ever going to hear of ChoicePoint was in this letter,” Mr. Lee said.

That would hardly be the last they would hear of ChoicePoint, however. Over the coming months, a long list of corporations and governmental agencies took their turn in the spotlight after they were obliged to acknowledge fumbling people’s personal data: LexisNexis, Bank of America, Time Warner, Boeing, the Department of Veterans Affairs. And with each new breach, media accounts invariably mentioned the company whose breach had spurred a great awakening about the vulnerability of every individual’s personal data — even if that company, ChoicePoint, had nothing to do with the other companies’ woes.

Privacy critics were initially dubious when ChoicePoint contacted them in the wake of its February 2005 announcement. “Most gave us the Heisman,” said Mr. Lee, who held out his forearm like a running back pushing away a would-be tackler to demonstrate his point. Yet, over time, most though not all of the privacy posse would agree to meet with Mr. Curling and other ChoicePoint executives, and walk away impressed by what they heard and saw.

That would include Professor Solove at George Washington (“They’ve implemented quite a number of measures to protect privacy”), Chris Hoofnagle at Berkeley (“ChoicePoint now has model security practices”) and Beth Givens, director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a consumer advocacy group based in San Diego (“They’ve put in place practices that I wish all the data brokers would adopt”).

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, became an honorary member of the privacy posse when he declared the F.T.C. overly lenient for levying only a $10 million fine against ChoicePoint. But he, too, has changed his tune.

“I was worried that a fine would be seen as the cost of doing business,” Mr. Schumer said in an interview. “But I have to say, ChoicePoint has become a model company.”

Even Marc Rotenberg, a privacy posse member who refused to meet privately with Mr. Curling or anyone from ChoicePoint out of concern that doing so would undermine his credibility, begrudgingly gave ChoicePoint some praise. “While I’m prepared to give them credit for a series of positive steps, I don’t think it would be accurate to say that they got to this position on their own,” said Mr. Rotenberg, the executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a privacy rights group in Washington. “It took a lot of work by EPIC and other organizations.”

When ChoicePoint started its makeover campaign, it first offered to rain down freebies on possible victims of identity theft, a protocol that others would follow. It invited them to join a credit monitoring service at no charge for one year, and provided them with free reports from the big three credit bureaus. To actual victims of identity theft, it offered its expertise to help correct the problem.

The company also gave a $1 million, four-year grant to the Identity Theft Resource Center, a nonprofit group in San Diego.

ChoicePoint then overhauled its security measures, a move that began with the hiring of Carol A. DiBattiste, who ultimately would fill the new position of chief privacy officer. Ms. DiBattiste is a no-nonsense lawyer whose résumé includes 20 years in the Air Force and turns as an assistant United States attorney. To send the message that both security and privacy were a priority, Ms. DiBattiste was named the company’s general counsel one year into her tenure

Over the years, ChoicePoint had done a modest but lucrative business working with private investigators and other smaller enterprises. Shortly after its February 2005 announcement, the company said that it would no longer provide full Social Security numbers, birth dates or other sensitive information to these customers — data that Ms. DiBattiste called “keys to the castle.”

That decision, Mr. Curling said, cost the company $15 million to $20 million last year. But inside ChoicePoint, executives saw that this small sliver of business threatened its overall reputation.

Until 2005, ChoicePoint had left credentialing to people in individual business units. It now has a centralized credentialing department. “The salespeople play no role in credentialing anymore,” said Ms. DiBattiste, who deployed dozens of people to take on the painstaking chore of recredentialing every client that was not either a law-enforcement agency or a public company. ChoicePoint had 120,000 accounts before February 2005; it now has 104,000.

It also performs random audits of its customers, to ensure that they are conducting searches appropriate for their type of business, and it uses its computer systems to monitor accounts for suspicious activity.

“We look for any anomalies,” said Darryl Lemecha, the company’s chief information officer. “So if we see a 50-person company that typically does a background check like once a month suddenly do 20 in one day, we lock down that account so we can investigate.”

ChoicePoint has endured roughly 100 outside audits, most of them conducted by long-term corporate customers, “and we passed them all,” Ms. DiBattiste said. As part of its settlement, ChoicePoint agreed to submit to an F.T.C. audit every other year for the next 20 years.

It is not yet clear how many people were actually harmed by ChoicePoint’s negligence. ChoicePoint says it knows of only 46 people who have been defrauded because of its data breach. But law enforcement officials have identified at least 800 people who have been identity theft victims because of ChoicePoint’s missteps, said Betsy Broder, an assistant director at the privacy and identity protection unit of the F.T.C. But, she said, that number could rise.

“If data was stolen,” Ms. Broder said, “nothing prevents the thieves from holding on to it for a period of time and using it perhaps when consumers let down their guard, or when the alert on their credit expires.”

ChoicePoint also set up a Web site for consumers who, at no cost, want to check and challenge possible inaccuracies in their dossiers (www.choicetrust.com). “It’s hard to overstate the significance of this,” Ms. Givens said. “This is an important step forward in moving us to transparency.”

Whether other companies follow suit remains to be seen. Michael Dores, founder of Merlin Information Services, a ChoicePoint competitor based in Kalispell, Mont., said he would offer free consumer reviews of its dossiers — but the cost, he said, “would put me out of business.”

STILL, Mr. Dores said, ChoicePoint’s own woes have had a big impact on Merlin, whose customers tend to be smaller businesspeople like debt collectors and private investigators. Like ChoicePoint, Merlin was fooled into providing an account to a fraudster.

So the company has recredentialed all its customers, Mr. Dores said, and created a new two-person compliance department. He said that Merlin now gives detailed personal data only to a small fraction of those to whom it provided such sensitive information in the past, much to the chagrin of many longtime customers.

Mr. Dores said he felt that he had no choice but to put these changes into effect, because “the Federal Trade Commission is in a bad mood over this stuff.”

Members of the privacy posse still have their complaints about ChoicePoint. Roughly 60 percent of its business falls under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the collection and use of consumer credit information. But to Mr. Hoofnagle and other privacy advocates, that is not enough. “If I had a magic wand I would make all of ChoicePoint’s data fall under the Fair Credit Reporting Act,” Mr. Hoofnagle said.

Even so, those who previously reserved most of their criticisms for ChoicePoint now aim their harshest words at some of its competitors. The same private investigators and others who formerly obtained Social Security numbers from ChoicePoint and Merlin are now simply seeking the services of other data brokers — companies such as Tracers Information Specialists of Spring Hills, Fla.

Yet Terry Kilburn, the chief operating officer of Tracers, said he was not worried about the hazards of providing such sensitive information. “We weren’t the ones who were breached,” Mr. Kilburn said. “Our security and compliance are strong, and so we are choosing to continue to do business the way we always have.”

In Washington, legislators have proposed more than 20 bills to monitor data brokers more closely. According to Senator Schumer, ChoicePoint — in contrast to other large data brokers — has supported legislation he has proposed that would establish stricter security standards for any entity handling sensitive personal information.

“ChoicePoint, to its credit, got right behind our legislation and lobbied for it,” Senator Schumer said. But the bill, which he and Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, introduced in April 2005, has not passed, he said, “because a lot of other companies, quietly and behind the scenes, killed it.”
342 2006-11-12 Samuel I. Schwartz’s nostalgia for the 1980 experiment with barrier-separated bike lanes in Manhattan (“Rolling Thunder,” Op-Ed, Nov. 5) is naïve. These lanes were hardly usable!

In such lanes, bicyclists’ travel is blocked by pedestrians, trucks or their delivery ramps; these also hide bicyclists and turning motorists from each other, increasing the risk of the most common car-bike crashes, those at intersections.

National design guidelines, and position statements of the League of American Bicyclists, strongly discourage the construction of barrier-separated lanes, as research consistently shows them to be more hazardous than riding on the same roadway with motor traffic.

Real improvements in bicycling conditions result, for example, from education, enforcement, bicycle boulevards (streets open for through bicycle travel but for only local motor-vehicle access) and reducing discretionary driving, as with London’s successful congestion charge.

The writer is regional director for New York and New England, League of American Bicyclists.

On Top of the World in Riverside Park

Like Hortense Calisher (“Rocks of Ages,” Nov. 5), I trace my roots to Washington Heights. And like her, I celebrate those city parks that “verge on the immemorial” by offering their year-round pleasures.

The closest one for me, in terms of affection as well as proximity, is Riverside Park.

I commend to Ms. Calisher’s attention two notable outcroppings of rock far south of the Heights — down the hill from the West 83rd Street entrance to Riverside Park, to be precise.

One of them, on which youngsters clamber happily, has a plaque set into its side honoring Cyrus Clark, affectionately known as “Father of the West Side.”

Across the path from it looms Mount Tom, one of the sites originally considered for the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument. Edgar Allan Poe was said to have climbed it to gaze across the river at New Jersey during summers he spent in New York.

“Don’t Fence the Sky,” by Patrick Smith (Op-Ed, Oct. 29), was evidently written from the point of view of private pilots, a very small portion of the population. While his view that the risks of private aviation in the vicinity of Manhattan’s buildings are overstated may have some validity, his article does not take into account the other negative effects of such traffic.

Specifically, the volume of private aviation, including small planes and helicopters transporting tourists who would visit the city in any case, creates great noise pollution that adversely affects the quality of life of thousands of residents who live near the flight paths.

It is unconscionable that the recreational interests of a few affluent people take precedence over and damage the daily living conditions of large numbers of city residents.

While I applaud Cynthia Carr’s insightful article into the avant-garde, grungy, experimental art-world of the 1980’s (“Hanging Out on the Lower Worst Side,” Oct. 22), I couldn’t let her get away with her final paragraph, in which she refers to “the new bohemian diaspora currently found only in cyberspace and boroughs beyond Manhattan.”

Has Ms. Carr cared to go out lately in her coveted downtown? Between Surf Reality presenting Faceboyz Open Mike Night at Mo Pitkin’s and Reverend Jen’s Anti-Slam (going on 11 years now only in Manhattan), among dozens of others, they all include the same colorful eccentric artists of yore.

The music, rants, zines, comedy and poetry are alive and well, and I invite her to get out of her nostalgia and come out to see what’s new and fresh (and still dirty) in our scene.
343 2006-11-12 Ms. Hu sells wholesale and retail. Before the loan, she said last week, she lacked the money to rent space at trade shows, where she has a better chance of making more and larger wholesale deals with stores than through the means she had largely been limited to before. “I was cold-calling stores, beating the pavement, sending them catalogs,” she said.

She used part of the borrowed money to participate in trade shows, obtaining orders often worth thousands of dollars, compared with hundreds in her earlier efforts.

Equally important, she said, the loan enabled her to upgrade her only outlet for selling directly to customers, her Web site, ahjewelry.com. Originally, it was a limited site designed by a friend, with only a phone number and an e-mail address for placing orders. It also had inadequate space for showing her creations, a major drawback considering that she was promoting the unusual look of her pieces; many of them combine peacock, duck or other feathers with semiprecious stones. With the loan, she was able to pay a professional to make the site larger and permit online buying.

Before she learned about the Women’s Venture Fund, Ms. Hu said, banks told her that her business income was too weak for her to qualify for a loan, or that she would have to provide collateral, which she lacked.

Maria Otero, the fund’s president, said her group had a broader definition of creditworthiness. In Ms. Hu’s case, for example, “we were impressed with her passion to make this happen,” she said.

But Ms. Otero also suggested that it had helped that Ms. Hu had come in with more than a mere wish to have a business. “We won’t do it with just an idea,” Ms. Otero said. “They have to show that they can close a sale to someone beyond a family member and friends.”

Ms. Otero said that she founded her group in 1994 to help make commercial credit more available to women, and that reports of Mr. Yunus’s microloan approach indicated “a good way to go.” The fund has since made about 150 loans totaling $1.5 million, an average of $10,000 a loan. Its loan maximum is $15,000, she said, though it may soon be raised to $35,000.

The higher number is the limit generally accepted for a business loan to be considered a microloan in the United States these days, said Sara Ignas, a spokeswoman for the Association for Enterprise Opportunity, whose member groups include many of the country’s microlenders.

Such figures contrast starkly with the typical microloan, ranging from $150 to $600, in most of the more than 100 countries in which microloans were made in 2005, according to another organization, the Microcredit Summit Campaign, based in Washington.

But given that most of last year’s 113 million microloans worldwide were made in poor and developing countries, the contrast is hardly surprising.

“The cost of starting and running a business in the United States is very much more than in developing countries,” Ms. Ignas said.
344 2006-11-12 He got the idea to start the company several years ago while teaching a money management class at Lima Baptist Church in Lima, N.Y., where he is deacon. “I became aware of the huge impact that college debt was having on our church’s members,” said Mr. Celuch, who put his two sons through college without borrowing. “People told me, ‘This is destroying our family.’ ”

According to a recent College Board report, the volume of student borrowing from private sources has skyrocketed as college costs have risen and as family income, grant aid and federal loans have failed to keep pace. Data from the National Center for Education Statistics indicate that the share of students seeking aid for undergraduate education increased steadily, to almost 75 percent in 2003-04 from around 30 percent in 1989-90.

“We needed help,” said Greg Fuerst, of Howard, N.Y., a father of four. Two children were already in college, and he was $65,000 in debt paying for it when he sought out College Assistance Plus about a year ago, he said. “We were experiencing stress we never would have imagined.”

His daughter Carly, then a sophomore at Keuka College in Keuka Park, N.Y., had financial aid, but it wasn’t enough. Mr. Celuch encouraged her to apply to transfer to another school that was strong in occupational therapy, her major.

Based on the company’s data base, which tracks college endowments and past financial aid awards, and on Carly’s high grade-point average, Mr. Celuch chose a school “more hungry, and probably a little more aggressive,” than Keuka. He was correct that it would offer more aid.

Mr. Fuerst then sent a letter to Keuka, detailing the other school’s offer. “All of a sudden, there was more money,” Mr. Fuerst said: a $5,000 scholarship and a resident-assistant position. Together, they totaled $6,785, in addition to the $7,500 award that she received each of her first two years.

With a total of $14,285 in aid, Carly remained at Keuka. Mr. Fuerst said that it was possible that his daughter would have received more aid by approaching Keuka directly, without a counteroffer or the help of College Assistance Plus, but that he “wouldn’t have done it on my own.”

Carolanne Marquis, executive vice president of Keuka College, said she could not comment on Carly’s situation, but said that generally when appeals or counteroffers are presented to the college, it assesses them “very carefully,” weighing students’ financial and academic circumstances before making a decision.

“We work very hard to meet their needs,” Mrs. Marquis said of all students seeking financial aid, but “if another school has deeper pockets, sometimes there is nothing we can do.”

College Assistance Plus now has eight franchises, including the one in Rochester, and four more are planned this year. One-time fees range from $1,395 to $1,795, depending on the location.

Walter J. Krieg, president of the Princeton, N.J., franchise of College Assistance Plus, said the company hopes to help clients make sound decisions to avoid going into debt. In community presentations, he highlights what he sees as common trends: that guidance counselors are often overburdened with too many students and do not have the experience or the time to focus on finances, and that more and more students are often changing majors, transferring or taking five or more years to graduate.

Mike Rapp, of Granville, Ohio, a corporate financial manager whose daughter Kelsey, 17, is a high school senior, said that “at today’s costs, you can’t afford to make a mistake.” The family is working with the Columbus franchise of College Assistance Plus. “A good fit upfront is paramount,” Mr. Rapp said. “My first goal is that she graduate in four years. If they can make that happen, it’s worth the money.”

But finding a good fit is not only about money. “They came to me, and said, ‘Hey, what are you interested in, what do you want to do with your life?’ ” said Kelsey, who plans to major in finance and business.

The family had a savings plan in place to cover Kelsey’s education at a state university, but eventually decided that a small private college would better serve her needs, so financial aid is needed.

Mr. Celuch tells clients not to apply to schools with binding early-decision programs, which eliminate the possibility of bargaining in April, when most award letters are received.

While the company uses tactics that traditional college financial advisers do — helping families legally lower the expected family contribution (necessary for federal aid), and repositioning assets for optimum tax advantage — it says it has had its greatest success by finding a college that really wants a student, then negotiating the best package.

The main strategy is to pinpoint schools of similar size or academic stature, or that are in the same region or athletic conference, and then create a bidding war. Some colleges may offer more aid for chemistry majors than for biology majors, Mr. Celuch said; by not declaring a major, students might lose leverage.

Appealing for additional aid is not unique to College Assistance Plus; college counselors, financial planners and families all do it, though colleges generally do not acknowledge it, said David A. Hawkins, director of public policy at the National Association for College Admission Counseling, in Alexandria, Va. But College Assistance Plus has a “strategic focus, a degree of specialization to extract the most out of the process” that is unusual, Mr. Hawkins said.

Not all agree with the company’s strong reliance on appealing decisions.

“It’s kind of a sore spot,” said Dallas Martin, president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, in Washington. “Our people really frown upon it as a practice.” He said that unless there was some kind of hardship, like the loss of a job, appeals should be avoided.

The rising number of appeals is one reason that college costs are climbing, he said. He and others worry that large-scale appealing will cause colleges to hold back initially, knowing that students will ask for more aid.

And appealing can backfire, said Tim Austin, president of the National Association of College Funding Advisors, in Troy, Mich., who also has a private practice. “The financial aid office shut down to us” when he appealed in the past, Mr. Austin said. And there is a good chance that in the future the college may not make its best offer at the outset. If he feels that a client is getting a fair package, he said, he will not negotiate.

Many parents and college and financial experts say the financial aid process has become hard to navigate.

“A lot of C.P.A.’s can’t do it,” said Rick Darvis, co-founder of the National Institute of Certified College Planners, in Syracuse, a training organization. He recounts an appeal he made to an Ivy League school that initially offered no money, then came back with $26,000, all in need-based aid. The family “truly did deserve it,” he said, adding that the family had filled out the forms incorrectly. “I see this all the time.”

RECENT reports from the Education Trust, a nonprofit research and advisory group based in Washington, and other organizations sharply criticize what they call a national trend to recruit students from middle- and upper-income families, luring them away from competitors, at the expense of low-income students who truly need the aid.

But Mr. Celuch says that it is not just lower-income families that need help, and that many clients would not be able to pay for college themselves without incurring substantial debt. A company analysis, he said, showed that its clients include families with yearly incomes of $21,000 as well as millionaires, but that the median income is $40,000 to $45,000.

He said he would be “doing families and students a disservice by allowing them to hang on by their fingernails for four years financially.” Families, he added, “are very, very thankful that someone cuts through all the noise.”
345 2006-11-12 Mary Anne McCann and Timothy Patrick Leahy are to be married today at Guardian Angel Church in New York. The Rev. Pierce Brennan, a Roman Catholic priest, will perform the ceremony.

The bride, 37, is a medical claims coordinator for the Transport Workers Union in New York. She is a daughter of James McCann of New York and the late Peggy McCann.

The bridegroom, 38, is a longshoreman for the Maersk Line, the Danish shipping company. He is a son of the late Agnes Leahy and the late Francis Leahy, who lived in New York.
346 2006-11-12 Emily Pierce Blair, a daughter of Linda L. Blair and Dr. Timothy P. Blair of Fayetteville, N.C., was married yesterday afternoon to Benjamin Tyler Hinckley, a son of Elizabeth R. Hinckley and S. Mark Hinckley of New York. The Rev. Dr. Glenn I. Miller, a United Methodist minister, performed the ceremony at the Village Chapel in Pinehurst, N.C.

The bride and bridegroom, both 25, work in Jackson, Wyo., the bride as a columnist and art critic at Planet Jackson Hole, a weekly newspaper, and the bridegroom as an intern at Stephen Dynia Architects. They met at the University of Virginia, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Hinckley received a master’s degree in art history from the Courtauld Institute of Art in London. Her father is a cardiologist at Cape Fear Cardiology in Fayetteville, N.C. Her mother teaches nursing at Central Carolina Community College in Sanford.

Mr. Hinckley received a master’s degree in architecture from Syracuse University. His mother is a regent of Gunston Hall Plantation, a National Historic Landmark in Mason Neck, Va. His father is a vice president for bond sales in the New York office of Arbor Research and Trading.
347 2006-11-12 Even the statistics on wind speed give the wrong impression. “Average” winds are not the criteria for operation. The percent of the time that the winds are greater than about 14 to 16 miles per hour is the key. For example, equal wind times at 10 and 20 m.p.h. average 15 m.p.h., but generation would only be possible half the time, when the speed is over 14 m.p.h.

An economic issue, also rarely mentioned, is that because winds are not always blowing, duplicate generation capacity must be built, and paid for, to assure electrical system reliability.

World societies should, must, deal with carbon dioxide and atmospheric pollution issues, but in order to assess the alternatives, the true economic costs must be completely understood.

“Is the Answer Blowing in the Wind?” highlights the constant tension between energy cost and environmental consequences. As an energy attorney having represented power generators fueled by everything from wind to water, I can tell you that there is a direct relationship between cost of energy and environmental harm — the lower the cost, the greater the harm.

Hydrocarbon fuels, the least expensive, have the broadest and greatest harm on the environment. While wind is readily available, it costs more to turn into energy, but its environmental costs have lesser and more limited adverse impact.

In addition, each fuel source not only has a direct cost, but also an indirect cost: while wind may be “free,” what is the cost (read: environmental harm) of fuels and raw materials used in manufacturing the turbines used to make wind power available? How much copper goes into a wind turbine generator? What fuel was used to make it?

As the verbal tussle between Donald Trump and Richard Kessel, chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, demonstrates, to a great extent environmental pollution is in the eye of the beholder and how it affects his or her pocketbook.

In 1975 we spent our vacation time researching wind energy experiments at NASA’s Plum Brook Station and on Long Island. The results of our investigation were published in technical magazines like Power Engineering, Design Engineering and Machine Design.

Your article stressed the many technological improvements made in the past 30 years. However, it did not include the most important and timely information: Wind energy is available to Long Island residents through Long Island Power Authority affiliation with upstate New York wind farms at an additional cost of 2 cents per kilowatt-hour.

This is a small price to pay in our fight against global warming and our dependence on foreign oil.

My mother, Edith Batten, began studying the piano as a child in New Zealand, and at age 19 won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music in London. After receiving her associate’s degree and winning the Chappell Medal for piano performance, she performed frequently in London and on the BBC.

At age 40 she took up the viola. At 70 she moved to the United States to be near my family. She immediately sought out other musicians and to this day plays in two different quartets each week.

Her dedication reached its peak when, in March of this year, she, now 91, needed a pacemaker. At her request it was inserted in her right shoulder so as not to interfere with her viola playing!

It’s not only the music-making but also the friendships that evolve that make the experience such a joy. Each week is our opportunity (I play violin in both quartets) to experiment with the new, relax with the old and just have fun playing together.

I was disappointed by your editorial about third-party endorsements (“An Election Day Ballot Trap,” Nov. 5). When I first registered to vote I registered Green, and have since supported the Working Families Party. Though I sympathize with the concerns you raise, I would argue that third-party endorsements acknowledge the diversity within the binary of left versus right.

Of course I would like to see more original third-party candidates, rather than endorsements. But until third-party candidates have a realistic chance of winning, voters can support front-runner candidates while at the same time supporting a party that is more closely aligned with their values.

Additionally, though politics is all too often about money and favors, there are other important factors — such as simple name recognition — that are necessary for a party to be viable. Thus, endorsements are a worthwhile step toward gaining the political clout to run genuinely third-party candidates.

“The Disappeared,” by Thomas Lynch (Op-Ed, Nov. 5), was a fine, clear and thoughtful expression of the meaning of death to those left behind. I should know. I lost my wife this year.

In an effort to erase my grief I have tried again and again to write about it. Mr. Lynch’s piece was a gift unexpected. He gave me many of the words and thoughts I have been seeking.
348 2006-11-12 In his review of “The Great Risk Shift” (Oct. 29), David Leonhardt offers some support for Jacob Hacker’s assessment of the decline of economic security and the solution revolving around “the simple idea of insurance.”

However, Leonhardt complains that the costs of expanded (medical) care and of a “Universal Insurance” program here “would be formidable.” On the contrary, Physicians for a National Health Program and others have convincingly shown that adoption of a single-payer program (Canada’s is a reasonable model) would be significantly cheaper than our present inefficient system, while covering all of our population. Approximately 45 million American citizens have no insurance whatsoever, while Canadian coverage is universal. Further, measurements of health care outcomes and longevity show far better Canadian outcomes than those in the United States. The differences are the huge profits taken by the insurance (health and hospital) and pharmaceutical companies and the resulting professional costs of administration, which is minuscule in Canada.

Our polls continue to support the change; Congress listens to lobbyists.
349 2006-11-12 My family and I booked a flight from Paris to Montreal in September with Zoom Airlines and were delayed eight hours because the captain was ill. Are we not entitled to a full refund under new European Union rules for passenger rights? An agent for Zoom in Paris said that non-European airlines are not bound by these rules. Can you help?

The Zoom agent was wrong. Zoom, a Canadian carrier, in your case is bound by European Union rules, which apply to passengers who have a confirmed reservation and who have checked in on time for their flight taking off from any European airport on any airline, or flying to a European airport on an E.U. airline. But judging from the e-mail from Zoom that you forwarded to me, this is not at issue. Zoom contends that, under E.U. regulations, it is not liable for damages “if the operations irregularity occurred due to circumstances beyond the carrier’s control that could not be prevented even when following all necessary measures and taking all precautions and was a threat to flight safety,” and directs you to the small print of “the terms and conditions of the ticket.”

Indeed, one of the ambiguities of the E.U. rules is that airlines do not have to pay compensation if a delay or cancellation is due to “extraordinary circumstances that could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken.” No wonder many passengers are reporting that they are being denied compensation. According to the British Consumers’ Association, the circumstances are “probably limited to very extreme weather or other unexpected problems that compromise safety like security alerts.” Obviously, safety would be compromised if a plane took off with a sick pilot, but one could argue that a replacement might be anticipated by a well-run airline.

Even if the delay were held to be within the airline’s control, I doubt if you would have been entitled to a full refund, which would have been the case if the flight had been canceled. For delays of two, three or four hours, depending on length of flight, all airlines departing E.U. airports are required to serve refreshments or meals, while delays of five hours or more entitle you to a hotel room, if an overnight stay is required, plus a refund if you decide not to travel. In any case, airline officials should be considerate enough to at least feed passengers during such a long delay. I hope this was the case with Zoom.
350 2006-11-12 BEMIS--John Richardsonage 90, in Concord, MA, on November 6th. Beloved husband for 63 years of Charlotte (nee Hutchins) Bemis. Father of Jeri Bemis of Cambridge, Idaho, John G. Bemis, Ellie Bemis and Gordon H. Bemis all of Concord, MA and Alice B....
351 2006-11-12 To the Editor:     I was disappointed by your editorial about third-party endorsements (''An Election Day Ballot Trap,'' Nov. 5). When I first registered to vote I registered Green, and have since supported the Working Families Party. Though I sym...
352 2006-11-12 WESTCHESTER dog owners are upset over plans to limit their pets' ability to run free in Ward Acres Park in New Rochelle. A city proposal for a $1.5 million renovation of the 62-acre park recommends that dogs be allowed off leash only during certai...
353 2006-11-12 To the Editor:     I was disappointed by your editorial about third-party endorsements (''An Election Day Ballot Trap,'' Nov. 5)....
354 2006-11-12 Extending an unbroken record of ballot box successes, open-space preservation proposals in Nassau County and the five East End towns of Suffolk were big winners Tuesday.     In Nassau, 77 percent of voters approved a $100 million county bond for o...
355 2006-11-12 McCRYSTAL--Dorothea M. (Dee), 85, died Saturday, October 28th at Memorial Health University Medical Center, Savannah, GA. Dee was born in New York City on December 23rd, 1920. She grew up in Hamden, CT. After high school, she moved to Brooklyn, NY...
356 2006-11-12 To the Editor:     Re ''Rise Up in Darkness,'' by Lawrence Downes (Appreciations, editorial, Nov. 7):     ''Darkness Visible,'' William Styron's memoir about his struggle with crushing depression, opened up a world of suffering to me that my profe...
357 2006-11-12 The Elmsford Animal Shelter faces fines of up to $60,000 after agreeing to plead guilty to 60 health code violations that occurred from 2002 to 2004.     Under the Nov. 3 agreement with the county Department of Health, the shelter avoids a hearing...
358 2006-11-12 To the Editor:     While I applaud Cynthia Carr's insightful article into the avant-garde, grungy, experimental art-world of the 1980's (''Hanging Out on the Lower Worst Side,'' Oct. 22), I couldn't let her get away with her final paragraph, in wh...
359 2006-11-12 To the Editor:     In his review of ''The Great Risk Shift'' (Oct. 29), David Leonhardt offers some support for Jacob Hacker's assessment of the decline of economic security and the solution revolving around ''the simple idea of insurance.''...
360 2006-11-13 Gov. George E. Pataki was circumspect today when asked whether the Democratic rout in the midterm elections last week influenced his thoughts about his political future. (James Estrin/The New York Times) "No, I think what it clearly points out is ...
361 2006-11-13 General Electric and Hitachi will merge their nuclear power businesses, which build new reactors and provide services to owners of old ones, the companies said Monday. The announcement of the deal by the two companies today is another sign of glob...
362 2006-11-13 The lame-duck session of Congress begins today, but its chances of getting much done seem awash in post-election jockeying....
363 2006-11-13 A gene-testing technology company Illumina will acquire Solexa, a developer of genetic analysis systems, in a stock deal valuing Solexa at about $600 million, the companies said Monday. Solexa's stockholders will receive shares of Illumina valued ...
364 2006-11-13 In the last decade, the hedge fund industry has exploded, as have the paychecks of its billionaire money managers, leading to increased philanthropic efforts. But Christopher Hohn, who runs the Children's Investment Fund, and his wife, Jamie Coope...
365 2006-11-13 Hedge funds increasingly are pressuring executives to either shape things up or move on, but a study suggests that their demands aren't doing much to improve the financial health of the companies they target. Researchers at New York University con...
366 2006-11-13 Swiss banks Credit Suisse and UBS said they have severed relations with Cuba and are not conducting any business dealings with the country. UBS said it had not had any dealings with Cuba since 2005 while Credit Suisse said it adopted a similar pol...
367 2006-11-13 CB Richard Ellis Group, the world's largest commercial real estate broker, will receive $2.2 billion of bank loans to finance its purchase of a rival, Trammell Crow, according to a regulatory filing. Go to Article from Bloomberg News via The Chica...
368 2006-11-13 Dana Gas, a publicly traded energy company in the United Arab Emirates, said Sunday that it had agreed to acquire Centurion Energy International of Canada for 1.15 billion Canadian dollars ($1.02 billion) to expand into natural gas exploration and...
369 2006-11-13 To underline the message, print ads depict Suzukis with four wheels casting shadows of Suzukis with two wheels under headlines like “Easy driver” and “Born to be wild.”

American Suzuki and Colby are not discussing the budget for the campaign, but the company spends about $100 million a year on car advertising.

The campaign, which began last month, is indicative of efforts by marketers in crowded, competitive categories like automobiles to seek alternatives to business as usual.

This is a particularly propitious time for American Suzuki, which specializes in smaller cars, to step up its game. The reason is the increasing interest that consumers are showing in buying vehicles that promise better gasoline mileage.

Sales last year, at 82,101, set a United States sales record, says Gene Brown, vice president for marketing and public relations at American Suzuki, which has its headquarters in Brea.

The record has already been broken this year, he adds, when the 2005 total was matched on Oct. 12.

With the introduction last year of the Grand Vitara, a sport-utility, American Suzuki began offering “more exciting product that in some ways is more tailored to the American market,” Mr. Brown says.

Now, as American Suzuki brings out the 2007 model-year version of the Grand Vitara, along with the new SX4 sport crossover and the XL7 mid-sized S.U.V., “we have some credibility saying this is the future direction of Suzuki product,” Mr. Brown says, “which is a good opening for building on our motorcycle heritage.”

“We found the motorcycle message actually has appeal far beyond people who buy motorcycles,” Mr. Brown says.

Besides, he adds, laughing, “We didn’t have to pay a big royalty to use the name of the motorcycle.”

In one commercial, a man emerges from a 2007 Suzuki XL7 and parks it by deploying an unexpected additional piece of equipment: a kickstand from a motorcycle. In another spot, the XL7 casts a shadow that is actually from a Suzuki Boulevard motorcycle. Both spots end with an announcer declaring, “Our cars. As much fun as our bikes” and “Our S.U.V’s. As much fun as our bikes.”

There are other, longer commercials with a battle-of-the-sexes theme to them. In one spot, two guys in an XL7 are followed by a pack of motorcycle riders who turn out to be all women.

“You left this at the diner,” one of the women says to one of the men, returning his cellphone to him. “There’s a new number in it.”

In another commercial, a Suzuki Boulevard and an XL7 race toward each other on a salt flat. The rider and the driver are the same characters from the previous spot.

“Think you can handle it?” the woman asks, to which the man replies, “Can you?” They toss their keys at each other, exchanging vehicles, and drive off in opposite directions.

In a third spot, a woman and a man leave the house, she riding a Suzuki GSX-R600 motorcycle and he driving a Grand Vitara. He takes a shortcut in his sport-utility while she sticks to the highway and he gets to their destination, a restaurant called the Kickstand, before she does.

“What took you so long?” he asks, to which she replies, “You cheated.”

The new work is meant to build upon the progress achieved with the “Way of life” campaign, says Carmen Dorr, creative director at the Brea office of Colby, which informs consumers that American Suzuki sells “products that are fun for people who like to have fun, who go for it.”

When Mr. Brown joined American Suzuki in March, “he brought up something we’d talked about for years but hadn’t pursued,” she adds: to consider addressing “the motorcycle goodwill and heritage” in a campaign for American Suzuki’s cars.

“Every time I would go to a focus group, people bring up Suzuki motorcycles,” Ms. Dorr says, so “it’s a logical step to say, ‘This company you know is also making cars.’”

“The other auto makers who can do this, you can count on one hand,” she adds, referring to American Honda Motor and BMW of North America.

Still, Ms. Dorr and Mr. Brown say, they were careful in considering just how much to play up the motorcycle imagery because they did not want it to overwhelm the fact the campaign is selling cars.

After testing ads that ranged on a spectrum from “lighter in bike integration to more explicit,” Mr. Brown says, “the balance we struck was in the middle.”

Ms. Dorr says the final campaign tested well with women as well as men, adding: “I personally was excited and surprised to see how well it went over with women. The fun aspect of a motorcycle resonates, whether or not you’ve ever ridden one.”

The campaign is aimed at men and women ages 25 to 54. The spots are running on cable TV networks like ABC Family, CNN, Comedy Central, Fine Living, HGTV, Lifetime, TBS, TNT, USA and VH1.

The print ads are appearing in magazines that include Men’s Health, Money, National Geographic Adventure, Outside, People, Popular Science, Real Simple, Shape, Ski, Surfer and Time.

On Dec. 8, a 60-second commercial is to begin running in movie theaters and continue for almost a month. The spot will serve as a teaser for “The Briefcase,” a spy action-adventure thriller that will extend the television commercials online.

Computer users will be able to watch the first few Webisodes at suzukiauto.com as well as on several other Web sites, but the final chapter will be available only on the American Suzuki site.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times newspaper.
370 2006-11-13 While Mr. Hoyer has been a fixture in leadership, Mr. Murtha eschewed the spotlight and seemed content to wield his considerable influence well behind the scenes until he took a high-profile stand against the war.

But Mr. Murtha is also coming under the spotlight on another subject that dominated the campaign: Congressional ethics. Mr. Murtha helped block ethics changes that Democrats had proposed last year. He has been an astute backroom dealmaker known for trading votes for the pet projects known as earmarks. He has had family members who lobbied on issues under his control, and he was caught up in the Abscam scandal more than 25 years ago, though he was never charged.

The leader of one watchdog group said today that Mr. Murtha’s record should disqualify him from the job, particularly since Democrats campaigned so hard against Republican corruption and have promised to make new ethics and lobbying rules a priority.

“How can Americans believe that the Democrats will return integrity to the House when future Speaker Pelosi has endorsed an ethically challenged member for a leadership position?” asked Melanie Sloan, the head of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics, a “mainstream” group that focuses of government integrity in Washington. “Representative Murtha is the wrong choice for this job.”

Mr. Murtha dismissed the attack and promised that, if elected majority leader, he would help formulate a strict ethics policy. “Wait until you see the ethics package we support and we pass,” he said. “No meals, no trips, nothing. I support it 100 percent.”

Mr. Hoyer, who learned of Ms. Pelosi’s letter of support while he was courting new Democratic members at a reception on Sunday, said he did not anticipate much of a shift in votes as the result of what he described as her low-key endorsement.

“We have seen no sign of that,” Mr. Hoyer said. He and other allies say he has well more than a majority of Democrats pledged to back him in Thursday’s vote, providing a cushion to account for any lawmakers who might stray in the secret ballot.

Mr. Hoyer said Ms. Pelosi, with whom he has had an occasionally tense relationship since he unsuccessfully challenged her for party whip in 2001, had already told him she would vote for Mr. Murtha. But Mr. Hoyer said many of their colleagues believed that he and Ms. Pelosi have demonstrated a strong ability to work together over the past four years.

“We got the victory,” he said. “Why change?”

Ms. Pelosi’s preference for Mr. Murtha was well known since he ran her campaign for House whip against Mr. Hoyer. In the past year, she has come to believe that Mr. Murtha did the party — and her — a service by putting his own military credentials behind a call to begin removing troops from Iraq.

But the letter of support she provided Mr. Murtha was surprising, since it meant that Ms. Pelosi could be perceived as being weakened before she even takes her new office if Mr. Murtha falls short.

Ms. Pelosi’s allies said she was willing to take the risk because of her deep loyalty to Mr. Murtha and since it was already assumed by many that she was working to advance his candidacy.

She and her allies also have taken the view that Mr. Murtha’s ethics scrapes should not be an impediment to his election. And some of his backers say the Abscam incident in 1980 is ancient history.

In that case, Mr. Murtha was among lawmakers caught on film being offered bribes by F.B.I. agents posing as Arab businessmen. Mr. Murtha, a protégé of the late Speaker Tip O’Neill, refused a bribe, saying he was not interested “at this point.” He went on to testify against some of those sent to prison and the federal government chose not to indict him. He was cleared by the House ethics committee, but the committee counsel at the time quit after the case was dropped.

“It was 26 years ago,” said Representative Kendrick B. Meek, Democrat of Florida and a former Florida state trooper who is supporting Mr. Murtha’s candidacy. “Goodness gracious, I made youthful indiscretions myself.”

Mr. Meek said he and others believed that Democrats needed a close-knit leadership team at this critical point, avoiding conflict in the key positions. “We need a united top shelf,” he said.

But Mr. Hoyer has won support from respected veterans who are in line to take over top committees, including Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California, John D. Dingell of Michigan, Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Ike Skelton of Missouri, along with respected civil rights advocate John Lewis of Georgia. He also won public support from leading Democratic progressives and more than 20 of the incoming freshmen.

Democrats on both sides of the leadership fight say they wished the battle could have been avoided in the interests of starting out together, but they say such contests are a fact of life, particularly with the lure of new power.

“They happen, and we will deal with them and see what happens,” said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California.
371 2006-11-13 DETROIT, Nov. 13 — Robert B. McCurry, who invented the concept of cash rebates for consumer car-buyers while at the Chrysler Corporation, and later became one of the highest-profile American executives at a Japanese car company, died today at his home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 83.

The cause was complications related to prostate cancer, said Joseph Tetherow, a spokesman at Toyota Motor Sales, where Mr. McCurry retired as vice chairman in 1992.

A former Michigan State University football player, Mr. McCurry began his automotive career in 1950 when he joined Chrysler. He turned out to be one of the industry’s most skilled marketers.

In late 1974, when Chrysler dealers were overloaded with slow-selling cars and trucks, Mr. McCurry came up with the idea of giving consumers cash back on their purchases. The campaign was introduced on Jan. 12, 1975, in television ads featuring the sportscaster Joe Garagiola.

Dressed in a carnival barker’s coat and straw hat, Mr. Garagiola declared, “Buy a car, get a check,” kicking off a practice that has been part of the automotive scene ever since.
372 2006-11-13 NISKAYUNA, N.Y., Nov. 13 — General Electric and Hitachi will merge their nuclear power businesses, which build new reactors and provide services to owners of old ones, the companies said today.

The announcement of the deal by the two companies today is another sign of global retrenchment in the industry.

G.E. competes with Westinghouse Electric (now owned by Toshiba) and with Areva, a French-German consortium, to sell reactors in the United States, where nuclear power is getting new attention again because of high oil prices and heightened concerns about dependence on energy imports.

But it has been 30 years since the last new reactor was ordered here, so none of the three has much recent construction experience.

John Krenicki, president and chief executive of General Electric’s GE Energy unit, based in this upstate New York town near Schenectady, said of his new partner, Hitachi: “They’re currently building many new plants, and we see that as a major asset, being able to tap into that experience base.”
373 2006-11-13 A Stanhope man was missing after his canoe capsized in the Passaic River early yesterday, the police said. The man, Joseph Rivera, 27, was one of four people who set out in the canoe around 3:30 a.m., the police said. The group turned for shore when the river proved too rough, but the canoe capsized before they could reach land, said Sgt. Edward Drwiega. Three men swam ashore, but Mr. Rivera had not been found by 9 a.m. yesterday, when the search was called off because of rough water, he said.
374 2006-11-13 Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who is in line to become the House speaker, has said the House will take up legislation to repeal that ban in its first 100 hours under Democratic control. Senate Democrats have expressed a similar desire. The eight Democrats newly elected to the Senate all say Medicare should have the power to negotiate with drug makers.

“The government negotiates big discounts for the prices of drugs for our veterans,” said Senator-elect Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. “But the drug companies got Congress to make it illegal to negotiate for lower prices under Medicare.”

Secretary Leavitt said he did not want the power to negotiate drug prices. “I don’t believe I can do a better job than an efficient market,” he said.

“We are seeing large-scale negotiations with drug manufacturers, but they are conducted by private drug plans, not by the government,” Mr. Leavitt said. “A robust marketplace with a lot of competitors has driven down prices. It’s the magic of the market. To assume that the government, in our genius, could improve on this belies the reality of a complex task.”

If a bill allowing negotiations got through Congress, it could face a presidential veto, depending on its details. Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Dan Bartlett, counselor to the president, said competing private plans had already brought down costs more than government price controls would have.

Democrats have not specified exactly how Medicare would negotiate with drug companies.

Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the assistant Democratic leader, has introduced a bill that instructs the secretary of health and human services to offer and operate one or more Medicare drug plans, in addition to those already available. The bill requires the secretary to negotiate prices with the manufacturers of drugs covered by the government-run plans. Ms. Pelosi is a co-sponsor of a similar bill.

At a news conference last week, President Bush said he wanted to work with the new Democratic majority in Congress. “I believe on a lot of issues we can find common ground,” he said.

In December 2005, just before leaving office, Mr. Leavitt’s predecessor, Tommy G. Thompson, said he wished Congress had given him the authority to negotiate prices for Medicare beneficiaries, as he negotiated discounts on antibiotics during the anthrax scare of 2001.

Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers use many tools to drive down drug prices. In effect, “you play one manufacturer off against another,” said James R. Lang, former president of Anthem Prescription Management, which administered drug benefits for five million people.

Insurers obtain discounts in return for increasing the use of a particular drug, and they can get bigger discounts by threatening to shift patients to a similar product made by a competing drug company, Mr. Lang said.

The approach that Mr. Leavitt described as unacceptable is already used in other government programs. Under federal law, drug makers must provide a discount, or rebate, equal to at least 15 percent of the average manufacturer price for most brand-name drugs covered by Medicaid, the program for low-income people. Federal law also guarantees discounts for the Department of Veterans Affairs, which negotiates with drug makers to secure discounts on top of those guaranteed by law.

Mr. Leavitt said the veterans program was not a good model for Medicare. The V.A., he said, has its own drug-distribution system and its own pharmacies and limits drug choices more than Medicare does.

Drug companies and some economists worry that if the government offered its own Medicare drug plan, it might insist on the “best price” offered to any private-sector purchaser of a particular medication. Medicare officials could then try to negotiate deeper discounts. But to do so, a government-run Medicare plan would probably have to establish its own list of preferred drugs, known as a formulary.

“For this to work,” Mr. Lang said, “the government would have to take over price negotiations. It would have to take over formularies. You can’t do one without the other. Drug manufacturers won’t give up something for nothing. They will want a preferred position on the Medicare formulary — some way to increase the market share for their products.”

Democrats said they were not seeking price controls or a uniform list of preferred drugs. “This is just good old-fashioned free market economics,” Mr. Durbin said. “If one buys in bulk, the price goes down.”

One potential obstacle to swift action is that some lawmakers, including Democrats, may want to hold hearings. Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat poised to become chairman of the Finance Committee, voted in March against a proposal authorizing Medicare to negotiate drug prices. Aides said that he wanted to give the program more time to work, but that he was willing to consider such proposals.
375 2006-11-13 Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent who represented more than 100 productions across the United States, including the hit musical “Wicked,” died on Sunday at his family’s home in Yonkers. He was 48.

The cause was liver cancer, his family said.

Mr. Fennell’s personality was probably best reflected in two occupations — carpenter and actor — that preceded his career in show business publicity. His carpentry side was evident in an eye and a mind for detail as he balanced the daily demands of simultaneous productions out of an office crammed with thousands of pages of press releases, memos and scripts.

Over a two-decade career, Mr. Fennell, a respected, genial straight-shooter, worked on productions with many major names in the theater, including Ian McKellen (“Richard III”), Carol Burnett (“Putting it Together”), Alan Bates (“Fortune’s Fool”) and Christopher Walken (“James Joyce’s The Dead”). In recent seasons, he also helped orchestrate the swirl of publicity surrounding Broadway appearances by Sean Combs (“A Raisin in the Sun”) and Julia Roberts (last season’s “Three Days of Rain”).

The actor in Mr. Fennell was easier to see. He was sharp and often funny, willing to see absurdities in an industry built on fantasy and populated with mercurial characters. In addition to hits that included “Angels in America,” “The Phantom of the Opera” and “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,” Mr. Fennell handled a few clunkers, but his good sense of humor was often able to soften the blow of failure for creative types. He also did a dead-on imitation of Mr. Walken.

Mr. Fennell began his career in publicity at Boneau/Bryan Brown; as an original staff member, he even helped build its shelves. He left the company in 1996 to form the Publicity Office and worked steadily for a decade, on Broadway and off, and in regional theater. In addition to commercial theater, he handled productions for a series of major troupes, including the Royal National Theater and the Royal Shakespeare Company — Mr. Fennell loved London — and the Signature Theater and Playwrights Horizons in New York.

Over the years, his clients included most of major players on Broadway. One regular client was David Stone, the producer of “The Vagina Monologues,” Eve Ensler’s politically charged cult hit that went on to a successful Off Broadway run, and a producer of “Wicked,” which emerged from the 2003 season to become a Broadway blockbuster.
376 2006-11-13 ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates, Nov. 12 — Dana Gas, a publicly traded energy company in the United Arab Emirates, said Sunday that it had agreed to acquire Centurion Energy International of Canada for 1.15 billion Canadian dollars ($1.02 billion) to expand into natural gas exploration and development.

Under the deal, Dana would acquire all of Centurion’s outstanding shares for 12 Canadian dollars ($10.61) each, the company said.

The deal is subject to approval by Centurion shareholders, who will meet on the matter early in January.

Centurion, of Calgary, Alberta, is an oil and gas company operating in Egypt and West Africa. It said in October that it was in talks with an unidentified company about a possible transaction, sending its shares up at the time. On Friday, they rose 5 percent, to 11.08 Canadian dollars ($9.79).

Dana said the offer price was a 36.4 percent premium over the price of Centurion shares on Oct. 30, the last trading day before Centurion said it received an approach from a third party.
377 2006-11-13 But the Zune can do something that no other player, including the iPod from Apple, can claim: it can locate other Zune players and wirelessly exchange content — music and pictures, for starters — with a few touches of a big shiny button.

“A lot like Xbox, the idea that really initiated the project was broader than the product itself,” said J Allard, a co-creator of Xbox and a Microsoft executive who oversees the Zune product line as corporate vice president for design and development. “This was just a steppingstone.”

Mr. Allard said Microsoft had made a decade-long commitment to investing in innovative ideas like those that produced the first Xbox in 2001 and the Zune — suited not only to the PC and the workplace, but also to people’s leisure time.

“Technology will have a huge impact there,” he said. “There is really a transition that is not only analog to digital, but digital to connected.”

But Microsoft also finds itself in another familiar position, entering a hardware arena dominated by a competitor. For the Xbox it was Sony and its still-leading PlayStation franchise. With the Zune, it is Apple and its iPod franchise, which has 90 percent of the market for digital music players costing $200 and above, industry analysts say.

“Without a doubt, this is a huge mountain to scale,” Sean Wargo, director of industry analysis for the Consumer Electronics Association, said of the challenge of competing with the iPod and lesser-known media players that have “crept beyond early adopters and into the mainstream.”

Still, with fewer than half of American households owning a portable digital music player, “there is definitely a lot of room,” he said.

The question is whether the Zune’s singular innovation — the wireless sharing feature — is enough to distinguish it. Mr. Wargo said the big draws for consumers generally are the extent of a player’s library of content and how easy it is to add and manage content on the device.

But late last year, with social networking and community building becoming more popular, Mr. Allard said “we thought the time was ripe” for a portable player that could share content and create communities around music.

In effect, Mr. Allard and his team were challenging a behavior that started with the arrival of the Sony Walkman cassette player in 1979, a behavior that generally equates portable music with private listening.

Chris Stephenson, general manager for global marketing of the entertainment business at Microsoft, said he does not think of the Zune’s mission as trying to reverse a trend, but to build on one.

“We’re adding that aspect of people sharing music,” said Mr. Stephenson, a music veteran and a former vice president for marketing at MTV Networks in Europe. “We’re adding to the digital music model what was fundamental to music. People love to share music.”

He said the evidence was abundantly clear online, from social networking sites like MySpace to underground peer-to-peer music-sharing sites. “What we are actually doing is identifying a cultural mean.” He posed a question: What if the Zune could help turn armies of music pirates into legitimate music promoters?

“We want to let people listen to music the way that they do,” he said.

At the core of the Zune is its built-in Wi-Fi feature, which also adds to the device’s overall bulk and weight (and energy consumption). In a demonstration, Scott Erickson, senior director of product management, explained that a Zune user must give the unit a name. The name appears almost instantaneously on the screens of other Zunes within range.

Songs, entire albums (with album art and other information) and whole playlists can be selected and wirelessly transmitted to any Zune within range. Users are prompted and given a chance to accept or deny the transfer; senders can also be blocked.

Songs take about 15 seconds to transfer, but transferred songs can be played only three times in three days before they disappear, Mr. Erickson said. Digital photographs, however, can be transferred in a couple of seconds and do not expire. Pictures can also be passed along in a daisy chain of Zunes, he said.

Toshiba worked with Microsoft to develop the player and will handle the manufacturing. Microsoft created software, also called Zune, to manage and purchase content on personal computers. (Microsoft executives said the Zune would not be compatible with Macintosh computers at introduction.)

To get the device to market in time for the holidays, the first members of Zune’s team moved in to some vacant space in the Xbox complex in January.

“There were no walls and no barriers,” recalled Bryan Lee, corporate vice president for the entertainment business at Microsoft. “That was the physical aspect and emotional aspect.”

By the summer, the rapidly expanding team outgrew its first home and moved into a 73,000-square-foot former dance studio known as Bear Creek. There, the cubicles popped up like mushrooms amid mirrored walls and ballet barres where face-to-face collaboration became the rule, said Mr. Lee, who worked from a table rather than an office.

“We went from zero to 60 miles an hour in no time flat,” Mr. Allard said. In the beginning the project was code-named Argo, for the ship in Greek mythology that carried Jason in his quest for the golden fleece. The workers, a third of them drawn from the Xbox 360 team, referred to themselves as Argonauts.

The first days of working on Zune were like working in a start-up company, he said — but one with very deep pockets.

The rapid expansion did not come without problems. One was power consumption. There were hot summer days when the team had to decide between lights and air-conditioning, Mr. Allard said.

A series of brownouts prompted the team to switch from desktop computers to notebook PCs that could be charged elsewhere and operated by batteries. Against the din of construction, the team, Mr. Lee said, had to work out a number of issues.

Among them was building PC software specifically to work with the Zune rather than relying on existing software like the Microsoft Media Player series and its PlaysForSure technology. (PlaysForSure is designed to accommodate a variety of digital players, manufacturers and online music services.)

“We had to look at trade-offs,” Mr. Lee said, “at what we can do to make sure we provide the best experience for consumers today and grow that experience very rapidly over the next few years.” He emphasized that a guiding principle of Zune was keeping it “simple and consistent.”

Would the Zune ever be able to connect to the Internet? Could someone walk into a Starbucks and use the connection there to download a song?
378 2006-11-13 Retail executives say that consumers, shocked by a series of high-profile business scandals, are putting greater value on corporate citizenship. So in a weak retail climate, philanthropy, and the image it projects, has suddenly become a competitive advantage.

As a result, retail executives and philanthropy experts said, charity is no longer an option — it is a requirement for stores. “It is a cost of doing business today,” said John Morris, a stock analyst at Wachovia Securities who tracks retailers.

It is not just customers who are giving away the money at the checkout counter. Retailers have never been more philanthropic, donating more than two times as much as their corporate counterparts.

In 2005, retail companies gave away 1.7 percent of their profits before paying taxes, compared with about 0.9 percent for companies in other industries, according to the Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy, a nonprofit group in New York.

This holiday season, Wal-Mart is expected to help the Salvation Army raise more than $20 million (the chain gave $245 million in 2005); and Toys “R” Us will collect $4 million for the Toys for Tots charity.

Retail executives said the money was a priceless investment in their reputation. Philanthropy, said Michael Gould, the chief executive of Bloomingdale’s, “defines us more than anything else.”

“Intimate apparel and sportswear defines you for a moment in time, but this defines you forever,” he added.

Bloomingdale’s, for one, wants to make sure it is defined as magnanimous. Every year, it sponsors the National Colorectal Cancer Research Alliance, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, the Susan G. Komen Foundation, Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS, Mentoring USA and Autism Speaks.

Then there are Bloomingdale’s seasonal fund-raisers. For Christmas, it will auction off luxury travel packages on its Web site — one trip for $25,000 promises a backstage meeting with Giorgio Armani after his fashion show in Milan, with the purchase price passed on to the disaster relief organization AmeriCares.

That is just at the national level. Each local Bloomingdale’s store contributes to a list of charities, like the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the pediatric cancer program at the University of California, San Francisco.

Perhaps nothing highlights better the prominence of philanthropy in retailing than the decision to link charitable causes to merchandise. The trend can be traced back to 2004, when millions of Americans bought $1 Livestrong bracelets to benefit the Lance Armstrong Foundation.

Retailers were stunned by the response. Customers not only wanted to support a charity, but they also wanted to broadcast their philanthropy to the world with a product worn on their wrists.

MAC Cosmetics achieved success with a line of lipsticks and greeting cards that has raised $40 million for AIDS treatment.

So retailers ordered scores of charitable products. Macy’s, for example, has developed an $18 T-shirt, sold under the store brand American Rag, that benefits LifeBeat, an AIDS-prevention group ($10 from each purchase is donated to the cause). The store created a new $15 book, “Kiss and Tell” — recounting various celebrities’ most memorable kisses — that will benefit Go Red for Women, a program educating women on the risks of heart disease. (Ten percent of the profits will go to the charity.)

In several Macy’s stores and on its Web site, the retailer is offering hand-woven baskets made by widows in Rwanda who survived the genocide. So far, 8,000 baskets — which cost $24 to $100 — have been sold, earning the women $85,000.

Ronnie Taffet, Macy’s vice president for corporate marketing, said that by selling such products, instead of asking for a handout, the store has created a self-sustaining business. “It’s not just writing a check,” she said.

That is the idea behind the (Product) RED campaign to raise money for AIDS prevention and treatment in Africa. At least four major retailers have developed products for the program, which began in Britain last year and was introduced in the United States this fall.

Gap has designed more than 20 products, including jeans, a hooded sweater and a book. It has also sponsored an expensive advertising campaign featuring celebrities like Chris Rock and Steven Spielberg, who rarely lends his image to marketing efforts.

Instead of being in the store for a single season, (Product) RED items will be sold for five years, with new clothing introduced every season. “There have been one-offs before at Gap,” said Trey Laird, the creative director for the retailer. “This is a sustained way for us to get involved.”

Charles Moore, executive director of the Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy, said that in retail, “more and more companies are aligning their philanthropy with their business.”

Just a decade ago, retailers resisted developing and selling products that would link a brand name to a potentially controversial cause, preferring to keep their distance by asking consumers to contribute individually to a cause.

When Harry Slatkin, now head of the home division at Limited Brands, helped create a scented candle to benefit the Elton John AIDS Foundation, “it was hard convincing people” to sell it, he said. “The question was, Does this mean we support AIDS?” But the retailers (Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman and Barneys New York) that carried the original version of the candle, which cost about $50, have sold thousands of them. Bath & Body Works is selling a new version at the lower price.

If there was any hesitancy about offering the candle, it evaporated when executives saw the response from customers. Just days after Bath & Body Works made the it available on its Web site, the chain received 85,000 orders.
379 2006-11-13 Arthur J. Samburg, founder of Pequot Capital Management, gave $25 million to Columbia Business School to establish the Samberg Institute for Teaching Excellence, offering mentoring and other programs.

But Mr. Hohn and his wife, Jamie Cooper-Hohn, who runs TCI’s foundation, took a different tack: they are using a portion of the fees generated by the hedge fund to finance the foundation and thus donate to charity.

The business model for the hedge fund is unusual for another reason: Mr. Hohn has been branded one of Europe’s most feared activist investors, those who rankle management to extract shareholder value. His biggest coup so far was leading a shareholder revolt starting in 2005 against Werner G. Seifert, the chairman and chief executive at the Deutsche Börse, which operates the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.

In December 2004, Mr. Seifert tried to buy the London Stock Exchange. Mr. Hohn, a large shareholder in Deutsche Börse, did not see the value of the purchase and demanded that the acquisition be put to a shareholder vote. A nasty battle erupted and, ultimately, the campaign killed the bid and Mr. Seifert’s job. (Nasdaq this year paid more than twice the amount Deutsche Börse offered to buy a stake in the London Stock Exchange.)

Mr. Hohn and Ms. Cooper-Hohn declined to be interviewed for this article. (Even photographs of Mr. Hohn are difficult to find for publication.) Investors in the hedge fund who agreed to speak did so with trepidation and requested anonymity. They are required to sign nondisclosure agreements that prohibit sharing any information about the fund. The consequence for violating the agreement, investors say, is getting kicked out of the fund.

Competitors praise Mr. Hohn’s business model for the hedge fund. “Hohn is a marketing genius,” said a hedge fund manager. “Who wants to go up against a firm whose name is the Children’s Investment Fund?”

When the fund was started, it posed some tricky issues for investors, especially endowments with a fiduciary duty to look after the bottom line of their own institutions rather than finance Mr. Hohn’s causes, however worthy they might be.

“We were somewhat concerned that a portion of the fees we were paying were explicitly designed to go to a charity,” said one investor who decided to participate in the fund. “It’s not that we aren’t charitable, but we are a not-for-profit ourselves, and the idea that we would be explicitly paying a higher fee to support Chris Hohn’s charitable enterprises and not our own was a bit of a sticking point.”

Mr. Hohn, the son of working-class Jamaican immigrants, grew up in Britain. He graduated from Southampton University in Britain and, later, the Harvard Business School, where he received an M.B.A.

According to a Harvard Business School case study about Mr. Hohn’s investment in Deutsche Börse, in 1996 Mr. Hohn began working for Perry Capital, a hedge fund founded by Richard C. Perry, a former partner at Goldman Sachs. In June 2000, Mr. Perry raised money for a European-focused fund to be managed by Mr. Hohn. The fund, said the case study, achieved “superior performance of 20 percent a year over three years with little volatility” — meaning Mr. Hohn produced outsize returns without taking the risk associated with such returns.

Like most managers who do well working within a larger fund, he set out on his own, starting TCI in January 2004. The fund would not be socially responsible but would invest in any sector it deemed undervalued. According to the Harvard case study, Mr. Hohn said, “We believe we can do greater good by making more money and giving it away.”

The fund would take large bets — for example, own shares in only a few companies — in industries that are hard to break into.

The fund has an unconventional fee structure: instead of the standard 2 percent of assets for managing the fund and 20 percent of the profits as incentive compensation, the fund charges a 1 percent management fee and a 13 to 17 percent incentive fee. Investors then pay 0.5 percent of committed capital and 0.5 percent more if the investors’ net return exceeds 11 percent, with both fees going to charities. People invest with the understanding that they cannot get the money back for three to five years, an eternity for many investors who like to be able to withdraw their money at any time.

To many potential investors, the fee structure was controversial. “It was so unusual a concept that people were suspicious,” one investor said. “When you think about the hedge fund industry, you don’t exactly think of charity. You think of people who are hard-driving and are always looking for an investment edge.”

Mr. Hohn’s track record and his dedication to philanthropy convinced people to invest. The returns paid off handsomely and contributed to money flooding into the fund. In 2004, the fund produced returns from 42 to 44 percent, depending on the class of share invested in. Returns for 2005 were even better: 50 to 52 percent, investors said.

TCI is not the only fund to focus on charitable giving. In January 2004, Andrew Walter, who worked in the investment management division of Goldman Sachs, co-founded Blue Orchid Capital, now a $300 million fund of hedge funds. He gives a portion of the fees that the fund earns to the Steamboat Foundation, a separately run charity he helped found that finances summer internships for financially strapped college students. (It also gives special grants.) As a result, he has gained access to blue-chip managers, the majority of whom do not accept money from new investors.

Blue Orchid charges about 1 percent as a management fee and a 5 to 7 percent incentive fee, according to investors. (Mr. Walter would not comment on fees or returns.) Half the incentive fee goes to the foundation.

“The consistent theme across both is we are in the business of investing in people,” Mr. Walter said. “In our investment business, we are fortunate to have built a portfolio of exceptional investment managers, and in the Steamboat Foundation, we seek to make investments in extraordinary young people who come from more modest backgrounds.”

The program has financed internships with institutions like Forbes magazine and the Hospital for Special Surgery. Every company that has sponsored an internship has agreed to do another. In 2005, Blue Orchid was up 12 percent, net to investors, and through October it was up 6.5 percent.

This marriage of business and philanthropy has been a theme in charitable circles in America, but it is a relatively new concept in Britain, said Susan Mackenzie, interim director of Philanthropy UK, a charity in London that promotes giving in Britain.

“We are on the cusp of a sea change,” she said, citing a large increase in new wealth, the changing role of the state and the emergence of private equity and hedge fund donors as factors driving that change. The Charities Aid Foundation, a British philanthropy, reports that people in Britain with incomes over £200,000, or about $380,000, give 1.2 percent of their income to charity. In the United States, people with the same income give 7.4 percent of that wealth.

“In the U.K., people are more reluctant to talk about their wealth and their giving, and that has influenced attitudes toward giving,” Ms. Mackenzie said. “Also, we have a comprehensive welfare state that influences what the government should pay for versus what individuals should pay for.”

TCI is among the funds changing that dynamic. It has not been without controversy. This year, Mr. Hohn tried to raise fees retroactively on a group of investors; the move incited some to withdraw their money. “It was outrageous,” said one who left.

Yale University, one of the fund’s original investors, pulled out $200 million earlier this year, partly because of issues surrounding the retroactive fees. A spokesman for the university declined to comment.

But investors said there were billions of dollars of capital waiting to get into the fund, suggesting that Mr. Hohn’s tactics are overshadowed by his extraordinary returns and maybe even his charitable work.
380 2006-11-13 “People ask us all the time, ‘How can you give up a puppy?’ ” Ms. Bonsib said. “That’s how.”

The American Foundation for the Blind (afb.org) lists 16 guide-dog schools, many of which have similar puppy programs.

Ms. Bonsib and her husband raise puppies for Guide Dogs for the Blind (guidedogs.com), which was founded in 1942 to provide dogs to disabled war veterans. The school, in San Rafael, Calif., sends out 800 to 1,000 puppies a year in eight Western states and has a second training center outside Portland, Ore. Dogs that complete the program work throughout the country.

Another school is operated by the Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind (guidedog.org) in Smithtown, N.Y., and has 200 puppies being raised in New York, Florida, Texas and Washington.

“Usually after the first dog, people figure out whether or not they can do it again,” said Maria Nuzzi, lead adviser for the foundation’s puppy program. “A little piece of your heart is ripped out and goes with the dog wherever it goes.”

Raising one of these puppies calls for a mix of affection and detachment. Those who enjoy it say they get satisfaction from knowing that the dog could greatly improve another person’s quality of life, but that doesn’t negate the sorrow of parting.

“I try to keep it out of my mind,” said Kyle Smith, 11, of Benecia, Calif., who gets up early on school mornings to walk his guide puppy, a 15-month-old yellow Labrador named Tamiko, and works with her on weekends. “I know it’s going to be hard, but she’s going for a better cause than me.”

Tamiko, the family’s first guide puppy, has accompanied the Smiths to Kyle’s Little League Baseball games, bookstores, coffee shops and restaurants, wearing an official dark green guide puppy coat.

Ms. Bonsib and her husband have taken their puppies on ferryboats and to Seattle Mariners games. Other raisers walk their puppies through city streets and introduce them to revolving doors, escalators and crowd noise.

Kyle’s mother, Lynn Smith, says her son has blossomed through learning the responsibility and patience required to raise Tamiko, who will return to Guide Dogs for the Blind in the winter.

Prospective puppy-raisers are screened for suitability. Raisers must be at home during the day or have permission to take the puppies to work. Anne Wondolowski, a kindergarten teacher in Lafayette, Calif., who just sent her 12th puppy back to San Rafael for training, makes the dogs part of her class.

“If they can ignore the distractions of 20 6-year-old kids, the high-pitched noise and running around, they can ignore anything,” she said.

People who raise these puppies receive a 225-page manual. Some guide puppies are raised in apartments, although homes with fenced yards are generally preferred. Volunteers are allowed to have their own pet dogs.

The puppies are trained with praise rather than doggie treats, and bad behavior is met with a snap of the leash rather than scolding or physical punishment.

The school covers veterinary bills and provides supplies like a leash and crate, but the volunteers pay for food. A spokeswoman for Guide Dogs for the Blind, Joanne Ritter, says the nonprofit organization, financed entirely by private donations, invests about $35,000 to get a dog to “graduation.” That sum includes the final training phase, in which the blind student is brought to campus for 25 days to work with the dog.

Many puppy-raisers stay in contact with their dogs’ eventual owners by e-mail or phone, or, if they live nearby, in person. Ms. Bonsib and Mr. Bickley have dinner with Mr. Seville and his family about once a month. “Ike gets excited to see us, but you can tell he’s really bonded to Bob,” Ms. Bonsib said.

Only half the puppies who start the process make the grade as guide dogs. Minor skittishness can be enough for a school to deem a dog unfit for the job. Some dropouts enter different service careers, including search and rescue, bomb sniffing and therapy. They are put up for adoption as a last resort, and offered first to the family that raised them.

Betsy and Peter Thomsen of Shoreline, Wash., have raised four puppies in four years but did not see one graduate until this October. Claude, the black Labrador reared by the Thomsens, went to a mother of four in Oklahoma. As the couple was about to meet the dog’s owner, Claude recognized Mrs. Thomsen and hurled himself into her arms.

“I’m so pleased with the match,” Mrs. Thomsen said. “This dog fulfilled its mission and has become a real blessing to someone else.”
381 2006-11-13 “We see a lot of interest among our members around college access issues,” said William Porter, executive director of Grantmakers for Education, which has about 230 foundations and other donors interested in educational giving. “If college is the gate to a better life,” he said, “what can we do to make sure more kids — especially more kids from disadvantaged backgrounds — get through that gate?”

There are no measures of the dollars devoted to such issues. But private giving to higher education reached $25.6 billion in the 2005 fiscal year, a 5 percent increase from fiscal 2004, according to the Council for Aid to Education’s latest annual survey. The biggest increase — 13 percent — came from foundations, which accounted for $7 billion, or 27 percent of the total.

The increase was a relief to colleges, which had watched as foundations like the Pew Charitable Trusts, Atlantic Philanthropies and the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, which had been large donors, shifted away from higher education in recent years.

“The foundations had been running from higher education like lemmings off the cliff,” said W. Robert Connor, president of the Teagle Foundation in New York. “Now they may be starting to scramble back up.”

One that has returned is the Carnegie Corporation in New York. Vartan Gregorian, Carnegie’s president, said it had renewed its focus because of the role of universities as “a powerful engine of intellectual, cultural, and scientific innovation and growth.”

Math and science education has also attracted philanthropies. The Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Maryland, for example, has given numerous grants to improve undergraduate science teaching. The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in New York has worked to increase the number of minorities and women in science, engineering and mathematics. (Sloan was also one of the earliest and biggest financers of online education, and has been a longtime financer of the Community College Research Center at Teachers College at Columbia University.)

Foundations are tackling other higher education issues, too. Ford, for example, has started a program to promote more civil conversation about fiery issues on campuses. The Spencer Foundation in Chicago is financing a project to foster innovation in teaching and learning at colleges, and also trying to get participants to measure whether the innovations really work. The Teagle Foundation is helping colleges find ways to demonstrate what their students are learning. And the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has concentrated on liberal arts colleges, the humanities and arts, technology and libraries.

Many of these foundations are also paying attention to who gets into college and what happens to them once they are in. This area of giving gained momentum with the arrival of several new foundations that focus primarily on these issues. Some, like the Lumina Foundation in Indiana, were created when nonprofit student loan organizations decided to become commercial entities and had to put their assets into foundations.

“Because the money had been earned in helping students over 40 years, we felt it made sense to continue to focus on access,” said Martha Lamkin, president of Lumina, which has $1.3 billion in assets and makes $50 million in annual grants. “We try to focus on programs that help all students, and especially those who have had the hardest time getting into and completing postsecondary education.”

Three years ago, Lumina created Achieving the Dream, a program to improve student success at community colleges by helping the colleges use data to analyze how their students were doing and find ways to increase student retention and graduation rates.

Other foundations have joined that initiative, which now includes 58 colleges in nine states, and Lumina officials say there is a waiting list of both colleges and financers. Another relative newcomer that has made college access a priority is the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation in Virginia. When Mr. Cooke, the newspaper and cable television magnate who owned the Chrysler building in New York City, the Los Angeles Lakers and the Washington Redskins, died in 1997, much of his estate went to the foundation. Today, it has about $600 million in assets and gives nearly $30 million a year. Its main mission is to help high-achieving students with financial needs enter and finish college. Community colleges are part of the foundation’s grant strategy.

“There are six million degree-seeking students in community colleges today,” said Joshua S. Wyner, a vice president at the foundation. “And among those, there are many qualified students who could excel at top colleges.”

This year, the foundation announced partnerships with eight elite colleges and universities, including Amherst, Cornell, the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Michigan, to increase the number of community college students they accept as transfer students.

The Irvine Foundation, which is giving $69 million in grants this year, made college access one of its three central programs during a restructuring five years ago. Its aim is to improve opportunities for people ages 14 to 24, and to increase the number of low-income youth who complete high school on time and attain a postsecondary credential by the time they are 25.

One initiative is trying to improve instruction and support services for students at nine California community colleges. Another is to provide a clearer picture to high school students and their families of what students will need to succeed in college.

Not all the interest in community colleges is new. A small group of foundations, including MetLife, have focused on community colleges for years, and continue to work with them.

Sibyl Jacobson, the MetLife Foundation’s president, said that when it came to fund-raising, the community colleges were far behind their wealthier brethren. “It is an overlooked area that is so important,” she said.

One community college that has experienced big growth in private gifts is Indian River Community College in Florida, about 100 miles north of Miami, which has about 15,000 degree-seeking students. In its most recent fiscal year, ended in March, the college foundation received donations of $15.2 million, up from $11.2 million the previous year and about $2 million six years ago. That is small compared with Harvard or Yale, but far more than most community colleges.

Little of the money comes from alumni; most is from local businesses and residents, including some who live in the area seasonally. Community colleges as a general rule do not necessarily get money from alumni, said Jimmie Anne Haisley, executive director of the foundation.

“The community loves what we do,” she said. “We’re very responsive to their needs. We don’t just offer English 101.” The college is about to start an automotive training program, for example, using facilities partly financed by a nearly $3 million gift from the Central Florida Auto Dealers Association.

“It is our reputation,” Ms. Haisley added, “but also our attention to detail. They wouldn’t give us a gift and then never hear from us again. We send them a newsletter. We call them and check on them.”

“During a recent hurricane,” she said, “one of the donors stayed with me and my husband. That’s the level of attachment we offer.”
382 2006-11-13 HIGHER education has been a Ford Foundation priority since its founding 70 years ago, and over the years it has spent millions of dollars, backing programs like women’s studies and black studies, historically black colleges and helping students transfer from community colleges to elite four-year colleges.

A newer program, started this year, is Difficult Dialogues, created to encourage civil, intellectual conversation about hot-button issues like racism, homophobia, abortion, the Middle East and religious intolerance, said Alison R. Bernstein, the Ford vice president responsible for education giving.

The foundation gave $3.5 million in grants to 43 colleges, including Emory, in Atlanta, where the main topic is race. At Mars Hill in North Carolina, a college with a “commitment to education in a Christian context,” the focus is on groups that feel alienated from the rest of the campus: African-Americans, gays and lesbians and evangelical Christians. And at Arizona State, Barnard, LaGuardia Community College and other campuses, religion is the theme.

At Emory, the university had been exploring a plan to investigate the history of race there after use of a racial slur threw the campus into tumult.

A program called the Transforming Community Project was formed. A $100,000 Ford grant helped expand it, said JoNell A. Usher, its co-director. The centerpiece is small discussion groups that include students, teachers and staff members.

Ms. Usher said the dialogues had sometimes been bruising. After one participant made an offhand remark about Jewish women that others felt was demeaning, a person of Jewish heritage asked for an apology. “It turned out the person who had made the statement was of Jewish heritage, too,” Ms. Usher said, “and we got to talking about who gets to say what.” KAREN W. ARENSON
383 2006-11-13 “Everbody can do something,” she said. But often, people don’t know what soldiers need. AT&T phone cards are high on the list, as are toiletries, DVDs and snacks, she said.

Carolyn Blashek, of Encino, Calif., started sending her own treat-filled boxes the day the war began in March 2003. She calls her program Operation Gratitude, and with the help of volunteers, churches, businesses and corporate sponsors, she has sent more than 150,000 individually addressed boxes since then. She said she expected the number to pass the 200,000 mark soon.

Mrs. Blashek admitted that she thought Operation Gratitude would be “done” by August 2003. Instead, it has become a full-time job, with a projected budget for next year of more than $1 million. The contents of the packages are all donated; much of the budget, she said, is for postage. Each parcel weighs 8 to 10 pounds and costs $8.10 to send. The boxes must be shipped by the United States Postal Service to Army bases within the country, which send them to the troops.

Allison Barber, deputy assistant secretary of defense, came up with the idea of a clearing house for charities that benefit the troops: America Supports You. Its Web site, americasupportsyou.mil, provides a list of 225 approved charities organized by state and an easy way for visitors to send a thank-you message to the troops.

America Supports You also helps arrange partnerships between its grass-roots members, like Operation Gratitude, and corporations. For example, DuPont Teflon has agreed to pay shipping costs for Treat the Troops, a cookie-sending charity founded by Jeannette Cram. Ms. Cram, known as the Cookie Lady, has been mixing, baking, packing and sending cookies to troops since the 1991 Persian Gulf War.

Mrs. Barber said there was also a trend toward “meeting the needs of families back home.” In one case a woman whose husband was killed in the war needed help with work on her house, and America Supports You found her some, through Operation Homefront, an organization founded by military spouses in 1991. The group sent a team of volunteers to help the widow with repairs.

The Wounded Warrior Project helps injured soldiers and their families. Its founder, John Melia, a former marine who was wounded in Somalia in 1992, experienced firsthand the austere conditions that recuperating troops face in military hospitals. His idea was to bring hospitalized soldiers backpacks filled with items like socks, underwear and cards. The organization has since evolved into an advocacy group that runs free programs in adaptive sporting techniques for disabled soldiers and gives benefits counseling to those considering retirement.

Jeremy Chwat, a spokesman for Wounded Warrior, said the group was most proud of its role in getting legislation for traumatic injury protection passed in May 2005. The necessity for the law was made clear, Mr. Chwat said, when a story made the rounds of a wounded soldier who had been saying that his family would have been better off if he had died. The law gives any soldier covered by Servicemembers’ & Veterans’ Group Life Insurance an immediate payment of $25,000 to $100,000 after a traumatic injury incurred during active duty.

Combat casualties create special needs, said Andi Grant, of Rocky Hill, Conn., who runs Give 2 the Troops. Each of her group’s goody packages includes a small wooden box with an inspirational poem inside.

“Its more than just, ‘Here’s your popcorn, here’s your stuff,’ ” she said. “The minute a unit suffers any casualties we change what we send them. You can give them nourishment, but spiritual nourishment is something that is very important.”
384 2006-11-13 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:       Allot Communications, Hod Hasharon, Israel, an initial public offering of 6.5 million shares. Lehman Brothers and Deutsche Bank Securities.     Amedisys, 3 million s...
385 2006-11-13 TRYING TO REGULATE AN ARMY -- For years, companies including Avon Products, Herbalife and Amway have prospered by building armies of part-time sales representatives promoting insurance plans and anti-aging creams. Those representatives, in turn, a...
386 2006-11-13 COLUMBIA, Cornell and Stanford all embarked on capital campaigns this fall of at least $4 billion each. But the institutions that are attracting the attention of more and more philanthropists are public two-year colleges that measure their fund-ra...
387 2006-11-13 Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent who represented more than 100 productions across the United States, including the hit musical ''Wicked,'' died on Sunday at his family's home in Yonkers. He was 48.     The cause was liver cancer, his family ...
388 2006-11-14 Gawker Media, the collection of gossipy blogs that includes the New York-based, media-centric Gawker and its Los Angeles-based sibling Defamer, relies on the online public's thirst for cattiness. But a third Gawker Media blog, Valleywag, which cov...
389 2006-11-14 The South Plaquemines Hurricanes won their opening playoff game while dealing with many other issues off the field in the wake of Katrina....
390 2006-11-14 Here is a huge dose of irony from the academic world. "Rewriting History," a research paper that raised questions about the integrity of a widely used stock-research database, is being rewritten. Or, more specifically, retracted. The paper caused ...
391 2006-11-14 In the long, inglorious history of independent, bipartisan commissions, the Iraq Study Group (also known as the Baker-Hamilton commission) "may be near unique in that there is no obvious solution waiting to be imposed," writes Michael Kinsley, the...
392 2006-11-14 Kevin McCollum, Jeffrey Seller and Jill Furman have announced a cast and dates for “In the Heights,” a new Off Broadway musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Quiara Alegria Hudes. The musical, which has a large cast including Priscilla Lopez (“A Chorus Line”), John Herrera (“The Mystery of Edwin Drood”) and Mr. Miranda himself, begins performances at the 37 Arts Theater on Jan. 9, with an opening set for Feb. 8.
393 2006-11-14 Apple Computer on Monday said it had hired I.B.M.'s head lawyer Donald Rosenberg to take over as its new senior vice president and general counsel. Apple's general counsel post has been vacant since May, when Nancy Heinen abruptly stepped down wit...
394 2006-11-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission expects to file more lawsuits aimed at hedge funds accused of illegal trading and violating their clients' trust, the agency's chief enforcer said on Monday. At the same time, a senior official at the New Yor...
395 2006-11-14 The British hedge fund manager Marshall Wace plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) through an initial public offering in a bid to create the largest listed hedge fund in Europe. The London-based hedge-fund manager will sell sh...
396 2006-11-14 Cisco Systems has agreed to buy Greenfield Networks in a move designed to expand its ethernet lineup, the companies said Monday. Greenfield, a privately held company with 60 employees, develops semiconductors designed to improve ethernet packet pr...
397 2006-11-14 American Express is close to announcing that it will purchase a corporate payments management company, Harbor Payments, a move that will expand the credit card issuer's processing business, Reuters reported. Go to Article from Reuters »...
398 2006-11-14 “This European proposal is something we and our industry are watching very, very closely,” said Tim Smith, a spokesman for American Airlines in Fort Worth, Tex.

Abigail Moore, a spokeswoman for British Airways, said by e-mail message that Europe should pare the proposal to cover only flights within the union. As it stands, she said the proposal would “risk international disputes and could lead to retaliation by non-E.U. countries.”

The proposal draws from the principles of an established system that Europe now uses to help combat global warming and meet emissions targets set forth under the Kyoto Protocol. Under that plan, which has so far exempted airlines, governments allocate carbon dioxide emissions targets for producers of power, cement, fuels, pulp and paper. Companies must then purchase allocations, or credits, if they exceed those targets.

Europe is expected to make its proposals public before the new year. But the proposal is likely to face intense opposition in the United States, which could delay approval.

Stavros Dimas, the European Union’s commissioner for the environment, could also amend the proposal before Europe’s governments examine it. Opposition from industries and others is already mounting.

A poorly designed plan “could be incredibly painful to us,” said David Henderson, a spokesman for the Association of European Airlines, a lobby group based in Brussels that represents major carriers, including British Airways and Lufthansa.

“We could see another trade war,” said Mr. Henderson, who cited stiff opposition from the United States several years ago to Europe’s plan to reduce jet engine noise.

David A. Castelveter, vice president of the Air Transport Association of America, a trade group, asserted that countries outside of Europe, including the United States, “believe that unilateral imposition of emissions trading requirements absent mutual agreement between nations violates international law.”

He added, “Air carriers have dramatically improved their fuel efficiency and trading obligations are unnecessary to spur continued improvement."

In that case, Europe eventually passed a set of compromise rules based on recommendations from a global body, the International Civil Aviation Organization, easing tension with the United States.

Airline officials warn that proposed emission-control measures could mean higher costs for passengers, who already face inconveniences and delays because of increased security checks. The officials also say that aviation accounts for 2 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in Europe.

“We don’t believe it will help one bit,” said Peter Sherrard, a spokesman for the low-cost Irish carrier Ryanair, referring to the proposal. Mr. Sherrard said that other measures, like using more fuel-efficient aircraft, flying full planes, reducing the number of connecting flights, and flying additional direct routes would be more effective at cutting emissions.

But environmental advocates argue that aircraft release more harmful pollutants, compared with cars, and that the boom in low-cost carriers in Europe has added to the problem.

Barbara Helfferich, a spokeswoman for Mr. Dimas, the environmental commissioner, declined to comment on the draft ahead of presentation on or around Dec. 20.

The plan covers only carbon emissions.. But Europe also recommends separate legislation regulating another pollutant, nitrogen oxides. The amount of these pollutants could rise, even as jet engines are designed to cut down on carbon dioxide.

If governments fail to regulate nitrogen oxides through special airport charges, Europe warns that it will start charging for these pollutants, as well, by raising costs to airlines as they seek to meet their carbon allowances.

“A pragmatic and precautionary approach is required,” the draft law states. “If the climate change impact of the aviation sector continues to grow at the current rate, it would significantly undermine reductions made by other sectors to combat climate change.”

Under the proposal, airlines would buy 10 percent of their credits through an auction system for the first two years of the program; the other 90 percent would be distributed free. Then, starting in 2013, airlines would be obliged to buy 20 percent of their credits; and starting in 2018, that amount would rise to 40 percent in order to discourage airlines from selling unused credits to improve their profits.

Each European government would be responsible for managing the accounting of these emissions targets for carriers based in its country. European governments would also be given responsibility for foreign-based airlines that use their airports most frequently.

That could, for example, hand the British government responsibility over some United States carriers that heavily rely on Heathrow Airport in London, Europe’s busiest.

Ms. Moore of British Airways said Europe was dealing with the airline industry differently than it had with other industrial sectors with its plan to charge increasing amounts for emissions of carbon dioxide. “There is no justification for singling out aviation for different treatment,” she said. “Requiring an increasing proportion of allowances to be auctioned off between airlines would impose additional financial burdens for E.U. operators,” she said.

Planes belonging to foreign heads of state, monarchs, their families and the military would be exempt from the new European rules, as would planes carrying fewer than 20 people.

Planes flying through European airspace but not touching down would also be exempt.
399 2006-11-14 In remarks today in Delaware, William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said the central bank’s monetary policy is “about right.”

When the Fed’s policy-setting committee stopped raising overnight lending rates in August, holding them steady for the first time in two years, traders and economists immediately began betting that a rate cut would come sooner rather than later.

But inflation remained higher than the Fed is comfortable with, and many of the central bank’s officials have said since then that they prefer to keep the benchmark federal funds rate at 5.25 percent on overnight bank loans until it is certain that prices have been contained.

“As far as the Federal Reserve is concerned, the underlying message from the core producer price index is generally a soothing one,” said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR. He added that today’s data suggested “a trend of well-controlled prices.”

The report today on wholesale prices — the second consecutive report showing an overall decline — was a sign that inflationary pressure is starting to wane in the business pipeline. Whether that will filter through to the consumer remains to be seen.

Prices of crude goods — items in the earliest stages of production, like gravel, scrap metal or animals used for slaughter — fell 10.5 percent in October after declining 3.4 percent in September. Prices for light trucks, which include sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, declined 9.7 percent, and the wholesale price of gasoline fell 7.9 percent.

Even when the steep decline in automobile prices is excluded from the Labor Department’s core index calculation, the price trend in the rest of the economy showed no sign of troublesome inflation, with a rise of just 0.1 percent in October.

“This breaks a long streak in which higher energy prices fed through into other items,” said Peter Kretzmer, an economist with Bank of America. “Now there’s evidence that with energy prices falling and with the slowdown in the housing market, there’s a picture of more benign price increases emerging.”

With the outlook for inflation improving, economists said that the Federal Reserve will now be closely monitoring wage and employment-cost statistics. Wages have only recently started to outpace inflation; if they rise sharply enough that employers feel pressure to pass along the cost in higher prices, the threat of inflation could continue to worry the central bank.

“If the Fed then remains with their focus on inflation risks being the dominant issue, it likely stays with a tighter monetary policy for longer,” said Jack Caffrey an equity strategist with J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “It’s still a bit messy out there.”
400 2006-11-14 Japan’s economy expanded for the seventh straight quarter, as surprisingly robust corporate investment helped sustain an expansion that is becoming the nation’s longest since World War II. The world’s second-largest economy grew at an annualized 2 percent pace during the July-September period, above forecasts for a 1.1 increase. In a separate report, the Bank of Japan said that producer prices rose at the slowest rate in six months in October as oil costs fell. An index of prices that businesses pay for energy and raw materials like iron ore and aluminum increased by 2.8 percent from a year earlier, the bank said. (AP)

General Electric said its Indian unit was growing strongly and expected to post sales of $3 billion in 2008 and $8 billion by 2010, up from $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion this year. Scott R. Bayman, the chief executive of GE India, said the company also expected to have $8 billion in assets in India by 2010. GE India has operations including financial services, health care, technology and back-office services in India. SARITHA RAI (NYT)

The chairman of Lone Star Funds, John Grayken, said his executives offered to travel to South Korea for questioning on the purchase of the Korea Exchange Bank and repeated that the investment firm is not guilty of any crime. “The Supreme Prosecutors’ Office’s claim that Ellis Short, vice chairman of Lone Star, and Michael Thomson, general counsel, refused to travel to Korea in response to the summons is misleading and inflammatory,” Mr. Grayken said in a statement. The prosecutors have “repeatedly claimed that Lone Star has refused several summons to appear, and is not cooperating in this investigation,” he said. “Both of these accusations are completely untrue.” His comments came a day after prosecutors said they would seek to arrest and question at least two other officials as part of an investigation into the sale of Korea Exchange Bank to Lone Star. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

DaimlerChrysler said the head of its bus unit, Wolfgang Diez, had resigned and that it had discovered “irregularities” at the division. The company said it had found the problems at the unit, the world’s largest bus manufacturer, during a routine investigation. “This has led to the suspension of some executives, effective immediately,” it said in a brief statement. Mr. Diez, chief executive of the EvoBus unit since it was set up in 1995 and head of DaimlerChrysler Buses, resigned “for personal reasons,” it said. It did not give details of the irregularities or identify any of the suspended executives. Ursula Mertzig-Stein, a spokeswoman at DaimlerChrysler’s headquarters in Stuttgart, said the production manager of EvoBus, Harald Landmann, would succeed Mr. Diez. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

The chief executive of the Italian clothes maker Benetton, Silvano Cassano, resigned as a result of what the company said was a disagreement with the controlling family over expansion plans. Mr. Cassano, who had been with Benetton since 2003, will remain on the board until May, the company said. The chief financial officer, Pier Francesco Facchini, also resigned, but Benetton said his resignation was for personal reasons and was not related to the departure of Mr. Cassano. Benetton, based in Treviso in northeastern Italy, declined to specify the nature of the disagreement. The company said that it expected to hire a new chief executive, most likely from outside the company, by May. ERIC SYLVERS (IHT)

The Italian bank Banche Popolari Unite has agreed to buy Banca Lombarda for 6.15 billion euros ($7.9 billion) in stock. The deal values Banca Lombarda shares at 17.31 euros apiece, 2.9 percent less than the closing price on Friday. The combined bank will have 1,970 branches and more than four million customers concentrated in Italy’s wealthy northern regions. Banking takeovers in Italy have reached a record $79 billion this year. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
401 2006-11-14 But Mr. Warner, who created a stir among Republicans this fall when he said the situation in Iraq was “drifting sideways,” appealed to his colleagues not to rush to conclusions before a report by the commission, which is expected in December.

Other Republicans also weighed in. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a leading member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement that he would “adamantly oppose” any effort to set a deadline for withdrawal, calling it “equivalent to surrendering in the central battlefront in the war on terror.”

Democrats, for their part, continued their offensive, saying the American people had given them a mandate. In a news conference on Capitol Hill, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, who will be the next Armed Services chairman, accused the administration of “ignoring obvious reality on the ground in Iraq, that we’re getting deeper and deeper into a hole that we should stop digging.”

The debate will soon move to the Armed Services panel. Among the senators on that committee are leading contenders in the nascent 2008 presidential campaign, Hillary Rodham Clinton and John McCain, who has been talking about increasing rather than decreasing the numbers of troops in Iraq.

On Wednesday, the committee will hear testimony from Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top military commander in the Middle East.

Iraq policy will also no doubt play a role in the confirmation hearings next month for Robert M. Gates, the former C.I.A. director, who is the president’s choice to replace Donald H. Rumsfeld as secretary of defense. Mr. Gates was a member of the Iraq Study Group but stepped down when his new appointment was announced.

Senator Warner said he invited Gen. Peter Pace, who as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is conducting his own review of Iraq policy, to appear before the committee.

The Iraq Study Group, formed at the request of Congress, is in Washington this week for a last round of interviews before making its final recommendations. Vice President Dick Cheney attended the Oval Office session on Monday, and the group met with other members of the Bush foreign policy team.

In his comments, Mr. Bush appeared to be walking a fine line — declaring that he was open to new tactics in Iraq, but seeming to foreclose some options.

Before their meeting at the White House, some commission members said they sensed that the White House and the commission members were, in the words of one, “feeling each other out, trying to sense where this is going.”

Mr. Baker has made no secret of his belief that the Bush administration must talk to its enemies, Syria and Iran included. In a speech on Monday, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said the West should be open to Iran and Syria — but only if they take a cooperative stance.

Mr. Bush did not budge on those points. Asked about Syria, he said, “We do have an embassy there in Syria,” without mentioning that contacts with the Syrian government have been limited. The president then laid out preconditions for talks with the Syrian government. Nor did Mr. Bush give any ground on Iran, instead reiterating his long-held stance that the Iranian government must suspend the enrichment of uranium before Washington will join talks.

Many officials inside and outside the administration are looking for signs that Mr. Bush will modify his views, especially now that he has nominated Mr. Gates, who led a committee of the Council on Foreign Relations calling for more engagement with Iran. But Bush aides say talking to Syria or Iran is simply not enough.

“Talking isn’t a strategy,” Mr. Hadley, the national security adviser, said in an interview last month. “The issue is how can we condition the environment so that Iran and Syria will make a 180-degree turn.”

Expectations are high both inside and outside the administration that the Baker-Hamilton group will provide a face-saving way forward for Mr. Bush. But one leading Republican, Representative Duncan Hunter, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said lawmakers should not delude themselves by thinking there would be easy answers.

“No matter what the commission recommends, the day after the recommendations come out, you’re going to have American troops in Iraq continuing to train and stand up the Iraqi forces,” Mr. Hunter said. “You have to do that. There’s no shortcut to that. There’s no silver bullet and there’s no easy way to do it.”
402 2006-11-14 Mr. Maliki has not said publicly which ministers he plans to replace, but he has been under pressure from the Bush administration to make progress toward stabilizing Iraq. The cabinet moves appeared aimed, at least in part, at demonstrating that he was making an effort.

Some officials say, though, that the problems among Iraqi leaders run far deeper than a rearrangement, even a sweeping one, can fix. Shiites and Sunnis are barely able to tolerate one another, and the tense relations make progress on improvements all but impossible.

It is a problem that the incoming Democratic-controlled Congress in the United States will immediately face.

“No matter how many new ministers, they are still going to have the same institutional problems,” said one American official in Iraq, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not have permission to discuss the subject publicly. American policy is about to change, and the shift will emphasize effectiveness over sectarian balance, the official said. “Instead of having a rainbow coalition, they will have people who can get stuff done,” the official said. “I think the U.S. will take a more hands-off approach.”

Mr. Maliki has not said publicly which ministers he wants to replace, but lawmakers said Monday that he had indicated they might include the ministers of health, electricity and oil. Sunnis have accused the Health Ministry — controlled by the powerful Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr — of sectarian bias. They also contend that it has sheltered Shiite militias that have carried out killings.

The security ministries — Interior and Defense — did not appear to be part of the shuffle.

“Most of his problems are with the Sadrists,” said Jalal al-Din al-Sagheer, a Shiite lawmaker from a rival party. There were also hints that two Sunni ministers and a Kurdish one would be replaced, Mr. Sagheer said by telephone on Monday.

But Adnan Dulaimi, a member of the largest Sunni bloc, said the replacements were distributed across sects and ethnicities. Ten of 36 cabinet posts were affected, he said.

Under the current rules, pressed on the majority Shiites by American officials early this year, Mr. Maliki cannot take sects or ethnicities out of the government altogether, and the blocs, groupings made up of political parties, will retain their allotment of ministries.

But Mr. Maliki can choose from among political parties within the blocs, which could mean that entire parties might be left out.

“He’s not going to reallocate the ministries to the same parties,” said Maysoon al-Damaluji, a secular lawmaker. The process, she said, could take several months.

Baha al-Aaraji, a member in Mr. Sadr’s bloc, the largest in Parliament, said it presented Mr. Maliki with 18 résumés, three candidates for each of its six ministries — transport, health, civil society, tourism, agriculture and a subministry for provincial affairs. In public remarks over the past few days, Mr. Maliki has tried to press his fractious coalition to work together better. In a speech to governors of Iraqi provinces on Monday, he struck a nonsectarian tone.

Regarding taking action against militia members, he warned the governors not to “look at his background or who he represents, or what sect or group or party he is from.”

The American military said Monday that on Sunday it captured four Iraqis suspected of killings, kidnappings and bomb attacks in a Sunni militant stronghold south of Baghdad. In a raid in Baghdad, it killed eight people and detained 41 Iraqis suspected of ties to Al Qaeda.

Iraqi authorities reported that the American military raided homes of supporters of Mr. Sadr in the northern Baghdad neighborhood of Shuala, The Associated Press reported. Helicopters and jets were called in and gun battles were heard by residents nearby.
403 2006-11-14 House and Senate Democrats introduced bills yesterday that would extend the life of a federal oversight office that has issued a series of sharply critical reports on the Bush administration’s reconstruction efforts in Iraq.

The Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction would be abolished next year under a Republican-backed provision included in a military authorization bill that President Bush signed last month. Some lawmakers have said the provision was hastily added without their knowledge.

The new bills were among the first indications that Democrats were following through on their pledge to increase oversight of the Iraq war.

The Senate bill had bipartisan support. It was introduced by Senators Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, along with at least 15 co-sponsors on both sides of the aisle.

Representative Ike Skelton, the Missouri Democrat who is expected to become chairman of the House Armed Services Committee when his party assumes the majority in January, introduced a similar bill in the House with 11 Democratic co-sponsors, a member of Mr. Skelton’s staff said.
404 2006-11-14 Michael Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, says he does not want the power to negotiate drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries, but Democrats should give it to him anyway.

The Democrats have pledged to move on the issue as soon as they take control of Congress. If they succeed, it would allow an important test of the hypothesis that government negotiators can wring lower prices from the manufacturers than those obtained by the private drug plans and pharmaceutical benefit managers that currently negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.

The 2003 Medicare drug law — written by a Republican-dominated Congress in thrall to big drug company contributors — explicitly prohibits the federal government from negotiating drug prices or establishing a list of preferred drugs.

The Democrats are only beginning to explore what they want the government to do. Some advocates want the government to mandate hefty discounts for all Medicare drug purchases — an approach that some experts fear could deprive the industry of revenues needed to develop new drugs. Others would have officials step in only when private plans prove inept or when there is no alternative to a high-priced drug.

The approach that most appeals to us would direct the secretary of health and human services to set up one or more government-operated drug plans to compete with the private plans. That could be started while the new Congress holds hearings to examine broader possibilities.

There is no guarantee that government negotiators would do better. Medicare’s chief actuary concluded last year that the government would be unlikely to get bigger discounts, and the head of the Congressional Budget Office judged in 2004 that for most drugs that was true. Some experts believe the government would not press manufacturers hard, because of the lobbying clout of the pharmaceutical industry and of Medicare beneficiaries seeking access to the newest (and most expensive) medicines.

Right now, private plans are not doing all that well at obtaining discounts for their clients. Surveys by House Democrats, consumer groups and academic experts have found that the prices charged to beneficiaries when their coverage runs out — a rough surrogate, perhaps, for what the plans actually paid for the drugs — are significantly higher than the drug prices negotiated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Medicaid program for the poor, and foreign governments, among others.
405 2006-11-14 While Mr. Hoyer has been a fixture in the party leadership, Mr. Murtha eschewed the spotlight and seemed content to wield his considerable influence well behind the scenes until he took a highly publicized stand against the war.

But Mr. Murtha is also coming under the spotlight on another subject that dominated the campaign: Congressional ethics. He helped block changes in ethics policies that Democrats proposed last year. He has also been an astute backroom-deal maker known for trading votes for the pet projects known as earmarks. He has had family members who lobbied on issues under his control, and he was caught up in the Abscam corruption scandal more than 25 years ago, though he was never charged.

The leader of one watchdog group said Monday that Mr. Murtha’s record should disqualify him for the No. 2 job, particularly since Democrats campaigned so hard against Republican corruption and have promised to make new ethics and lobbying rules a priority.

“How can Americans believe that the Democrats will return integrity to the House when future Speaker Pelosi has endorsed an ethically challenged member for a leadership position?” asked Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a Democratic-leaning group that focuses on government integrity. “Representative Murtha is the wrong choice for this job.”

Mr. Murtha dismissed the attack and promised that, if elected majority leader, he would help formulate a strict ethics policy. “Wait until you see the ethics package we support and we pass,” he said. “No meals, no trips, nothing. I support it 100 percent.”

Mr. Hoyer, who learned of Ms. Pelosi’s letter of support for Mr. Murtha while he was courting new Democratic members at a reception on Sunday, said he did not expect much of a shift in votes as a result of what he described as her low-key endorsement.

“We have seen no sign of that,” Mr. Hoyer said.

He and his allies say he has well more than a majority of Democrats pledged to back him in Thursday’s election, providing a cushion to account for any lawmakers who might stray in the secret ballot.

Mr. Hoyer said Ms. Pelosi, with whom he has had an occasionally tense relationship since he unsuccessfully challenged her for party whip in 2001, had already told him she would vote for Mr. Murtha. But Mr. Hoyer said many of their colleagues believed that he and Ms. Pelosi had demonstrated a strong ability to work together over the past four years.

“We got the victory,” he said. “Why change?”

Ms. Pelosi’s preference for Mr. Murtha had been well known since he ran her campaign for House whip against Mr. Hoyer. In the past year, she has come to believe that Mr. Murtha did the party — and her — a service by putting his own military credentials behind a call to begin removing troops from Iraq.

But the letter of support she provided Mr. Murtha was surprising, since it meant that Ms. Pelosi could be perceived as being weakened before she even takes her new office if Mr. Murtha falls short.

Ms. Pelosi’s allies said she was willing to take the risk because of her deep loyalty to Mr. Murtha and since it was already assumed by many that she was working to advance his candidacy.

She and her allies have also taken the view that Mr. Murtha’s scrapes regarding ethics should not be an impediment to his election. And some of his backers say the Abscam scandal of 1980 is ancient history.

In that case, Mr. Murtha was among lawmakers caught on film being offered bribes by F.B.I. agents posing as Arab businessmen. Mr. Murtha, a protégé of Speaker Thomas P. O’Neill Jr., refused a bribe, saying he was not interested “at this point.” He went on to testify against some of those sent to prison, and the federal government chose not to indict him. He was cleared by the House ethics committee, but the committee counsel quit after the case was dropped.

“It was 26 years ago,” said Representative Kendrick B. Meek, Democrat of Florida and a former Florida state trooper who is supporting Mr. Murtha.

Mr. Meek said he and others believed that Democrats needed a close-knit leadership team at this critical point, avoiding conflict in the crucial positions. “We need a united top shelf,” he said.

But Mr. Hoyer has won support from respected veterans who are in line to take over top committees, including Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California, John D. Dingell of Michigan, Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Ike Skelton of Missouri, along with Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a veteran of the civil rights struggle. He has also won public support from leading Democratic progressives and more than 20 of the incoming freshmen.

Democrats on both sides of the leadership fight say that they wish the battle could have been avoided, in the interests of starting out together, but that such contests are a fact of life, particularly with the lure of new power.

“They happen, and we will deal with them and see what happens,” said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California.
406 2006-11-14 The Securities and Exchange Commission expects to file more lawsuits aimed at hedge funds accused of illegal trading and violating their clients’ trust, the agency’s chief enforcer said yesterday.

At the same time, a senior official at the New York Stock Exchange said that Wall Street’s prime brokerages, which lend to hedge funds and process their trades, might be held accountable if they failed to catch illegal conduct.

The S.E.C.’s enforcement director, Linda C. Thomsen, said that federal regulators were concerned about illegal trading and the potential for harm to hedge fund investors.

“I expect to see activity in connection with both,” she said yesterday at a securities conference in Manhattan.

Lawmakers and regulators have grown more concerned about hedge fund oversight of the funds, which are pools of private capital. The largely unregulated funds now have more than $1.3 trillion in assets worldwide, more than double the amount under management five years ago, according to Hedge Fund Research in Chicago. Hedge funds allow managers to participate substantially in the gains of the money invested.

Regulators have repeatedly learned to “follow the money,” Ms. Thomsen said. “These days, the money is in hedge funds, so the potential for abuse, the potential for securities law violations is there because there is so much money there.”
407 2006-11-14 The basic back-to-front procedure is probably the most familiar, and it is still used by many airlines, including Air Canada, Alaska, American, British Airways, Continental, Frontier, Midwest, Spirit and Virgin Atlantic. (Nearly all airlines allow first-class or business-class passengers, and those with special needs, to board first.)

Mathematicians would revel in the intricacies of the new boarding techniques. There is the outside-in technique, nicknamed Wilma, for window first, then middle and then aisle, a technique favored by Delta and United. And there is the sort of nonsystem system pioneered by Southwest Airlines in which passengers board in the order they arrive, with no assigned seats.

Among the reformers, US Airways can lay claim to one of the most complex procedures. It is basically Wilma, with seats filled in a pattern as intricate as a microchip’s circuitry: rear window and middle first, front window and middle next, followed by rear aisle, then front aisle. The airline calls it the reverse pyramid system, but it might be better described as a V-shaped sequence that operates by zones.

US Airways inherited that system from its newly merged partner, America West, which devised it back in 2002 with the help of an industrial engineering team at Arizona State University. Aided by photos taken at Los Angeles International Airport, the researchers created mathematical models and simulations using “pixels as people,” as a team member, Menkes van den Briel, puts it.

US Airways now uses the procedure on about half of its Airbus A320 and Boeing 757 jets and plans to finish the conversion next year. The goal, as the Arizona State team’s report defines it, is “to minimize the total expected number of seat and aisle interferences.” So far, the system has cut US Airways’ turnaround time by two to five minutes, said a spokeswoman, Valerie Wunder.

AirTran Airways, a discount carrier, uses a simpler variation. “We divide the plane into six different sections in a rotating zone system,” a spokeswoman, Judy Graham-Weaver, said. Business class fills up first, along with special-needs passengers. Then the airline begins the seating sequence with the back five rows called first, the front five behind business class second, the next back five rows third — continuing until the rows meet in the middle.

What is the advantage? One zone is stowing bags while the next zone some distance away is getting settled — and the zones tend not to interfere with one another, Ms. Graham-Weaver said.

The variable that keeps upsetting the airline industry’s careful planning is the unpredictability of human behavior. The industry calls it “interference,” and it means time-killing activities like elderly passengers perching on armrests to stuff a bag into the overhead bin.

“The unexpected behavior of passengers can lead you to chaos theory for an explanation,” Mr. Aboulafia said. “That’s when random events set off a sequence of unpredictable actions and your best-laid plans go out the window.” But some boarding experts note that people have an innate capacity to “self-organize” and keep out of each other’s way.

Because behavior is so hard to predict, some argue that changing boarding procedures is less effective than other tactics, like limiting carry-on baggage.

“To simplify and improve boarding, the only way is to limit the amount of carry-on baggage,” said Patricia A. Friend, president of the Association of Flight Attendants. “As long as people hold up the boarding process — stowing as much as they can get away with — it’s going to be slow boarding and even slower deplaning.”

The recent security crackdown that tightened limits on carry-on luggage serendipitously proved her point. Some airlines said boarding had become noticeably easier because many carry-ons ended up as checked baggage.

Perhaps the simplest approach is the open seating plan famously practiced by Southwest Airlines since its earliest days in 1971. It may seem slightly quaint next to its more elaborate cousins, but it has helped make Southwest a turnaround champion that claims to take only 25 minutes on average to unload, clean and reload its 137-passenger Boeing 737s.

“That’s very fast,” said Mr. Swierenga, the consultant, adding that there are no industry benchmarks on turnaround time. “It depends on the size of the aircraft,” he said. “A 747 jumbo can take hours.”

Southwest’s turnaround time is “below those of our competitors,” said a Southwest spokeswoman, Beth Harbin, who added that the range is 35 minutes to an hour for most airlines.

Southwest’s system is also cheap and uncomplicated, requiring almost no exotic technology. Customers get assigned to Groups A, B or C on their boarding passes, in the order in which the passenger checks in. Groups are called in alphabetical order, with passengers rushing to occupy the seat of their choice.

Though some Southwest passengers liken it to a cattle car, they are generally good sports. But in blogs and other forums they grouse that they have to be at the airport early to get the best seats.

To show off the effectiveness of its simple system, Southwest’s scheduling department has come up with a what-if model, in which turnarounds take five minutes longer. To keep its current schedules of 2,773 daily turns for its fleet of 461 737s, the airline would need 18 additional aircraft costing a total of $972 million — not including the cost of crews and maintenance workers.

Southwest has quietly done tests of so-called dual jet bridges in Austin and Dallas to accelerate boarding by loading passengers through two doors at once. But the bridges proved to be unreliable. The airline does use a different kind of dual bridge in Albany, but has found it only marginally better than single bridges.

Last summer Southwest began experimenting with assigned seating, Wilma-style boarding and other loading methods on flights out of San Diego because of the variety of short, medium and long-haul flights there.

So far, passengers polled by Southwest are evenly divided between leaving open-seating alone or changing it. “Our fliers are passionate about what they like — for instance, the fact they can book at the last minute without losing out on a good seat,” said Ms. Harbin, the Southwest spokeswoman. “But after going electronic with boarding passes, we cleared at least the technology hurdle of how to assign seats.” Southwest is adamant about not altering its boarding system until at least 2008.

Northwest, which has traditional assigned seating, recently replaced its back-to-front loading with Southwest-style open boarding. Some corporate travel managers have complained that their fliers are getting the Southwest open-seating treatment even though they are paying full fare. But Northwest, like most major airlines, provides a separate boarding lane for elite business travelers, even when they are late to the gate. And it says its system reduces boarding time by seven minutes.

So which boarding technique works best? There are skeptics who scoff at all the hand-wringing and research experiments and contend that all these attempts at saving time are a waste of time.

“The airlines are looking for a new time-saving idea they can believe in and reduce it to a computer code,” said Robert W. Mann, an aviation consultant in Port Washington, N.Y. “Just say, ‘It’s time to go’ and random boarding will get the same result as any systematization.”
408 2006-11-14 Mr. McCain said that the fate of the Iraqi venture would be decided in the next six months or so and that signaling the intention to depart, regardless of facts on the ground, only guaranteed defeat. But he also said he was willing to reach a different conclusion if the generals in charge of the American military operation or if the members of the commission led by James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, came up with a workable alternative.

Gen. John P. Abizaid, commander of United States forces in Iraq, and top intelligence officials will go before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Wednesday to face questioning about the war for the first time since last week’s election, which many viewed as a referendum on Iraq. The Baker study group is expected to report its preliminary findings and recommendations next month.

Leslie H. Gelb, former president of the Council on Foreign Relations, said Mr. McCain had painted such a dire picture of the consequences of defeat that he almost had to advocate a more forceful effort to win. If Mr. McCain were to join the chorus of those agitating for a fast or slow withdrawal, he could alienate a large swath of voters he needs to win the Republican presidential nomination, Mr. Gelb added.

“He’s making the bet — and it’s not a crazy bet — that the country doesn’t want to lose,” he said. “The public realizes we can’t afford to win and probably can’t win, but it doesn’t want to lose. And the Republicans probably won’t nominate anyone who’s prepared to accept that now.”

Other analysts said Mr. McCain was risking his reputation as a realist and someone who knows when to fold a losing hand by sticking obstinately to his current position.

“He would just repeat the mistake of Vietnam,” said Michael E. O’Hanlon, a military analyst at the Brookings Institution, the liberal-leaning research group in Washington. “If McCain refuses to acknowledge that some wars can become simply unwinnable, he may be exposing a weakness in his thinking that ultimately deprives him of the presidency.”

Last week’s election robbed Mr. McCain of a prize he had sought for many years, the chairmanship of the Armed Services Committee. If Republicans had retained control of the Senate, he was in line to assume the gavel and the ability to call witnesses and set the terms of the Iraq debate in the Senate, at least in part. But the defeat of Senator George Allen, Republican of Virginia, tipped the balance of power to Democrats, putting Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, an early opponent of the war, in position to assume the post in January.

Mr. McCain can still play his gadfly role from the minority, and some welcome his voice.

“God bless him, he’s about the only serious person in this whole debate,” said Joshua Muravchik, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative research organization in Washington. “Even a supporter of the war like myself would have to acknowledge that we’re in a mess, so the question is what to do about it. And McCain is saying we ought to do what we should have done in the first place, which was send enough troops to do the job. That seems counterintuitive because the whole momentum of emotions in the country at this point is to get out of there.”
409 2006-11-14 BALTIMORE, Nov. 13 — The nation’s Roman Catholic bishops gathered here Monday to take up initiatives underscoring church teaching on a variety of issues, including contraception and homosexuality. If anything united those initiatives, it appeared to be an overarching concern that core teachings be better understood by Catholics who often live lives in clear divergence from them.

Among the issues before the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops at its semiannual meeting are new guidelines for ministry that encourage parishes to reach out to gay Catholics alienated from their church. At the same time, the guidelines affirm church teaching about the “disordered” nature of “homosexual inclinations” and speak out against same-sex marriages and adoptions by gay couples.

The initiative stemmed from “concerns raised about doctrinal fidelity in ministries to people with homosexual inclinations in various dioceses around the country,” said Bishop Arthur J. Serratelli of Paterson, N.J., the chairman of the bishops’ Committee on Doctrine. The committee, which began work on the guidelines in the fall of 2002, consulted with those who provide ministry to gay Catholics, but not directly with gay Catholics themselves.

A few bishops voiced concern Monday that the guidelines, on which a final vote is expected Tuesday, would not help them reach out. Bishop J. Kevin Boland of Savannah, Ga., said the distinction between calling homosexuality a disordered inclination and insisting that gay people are not disordered would be lost on gay men and lesbians.

“I think that is quite reasonable for the heterosexual, but for the person with the inclination it will be very hard to accept,” Bishop Boland told the conference. “To apply it pastorally can be quite difficult.”
410 2006-11-14 Healthy men over 50 who had finished at least five marathons in the last five years were more likely to have major calcium deposits in their arteries than healthy men who did not run as much, according to a study presented yesterday at an American Heart Association meeting in Chicago.

Calcium buildup is a sign that arteries are hardening, even when patients lack other symptoms.

“Even if you’re healthy, the more disease you have, the more likely you will, at some point later, develop a heart attack,” said the study’s author, Dr. Stefan Möhlenkamp, a cardiologist at University Clinic in Essen, Germany.

About 36 percent of the 108 male marathon runners in the study had coronary artery calcium scores above 100, possibly a sign of increased cardiovascular risk. Similar scores were seen in 22 percent of 216 men who did not run and had risk factors for heart disease similar to those of the marathon group.

Dr. Möhlenkamp said he got the idea for the study after hearing about some healthy older male runners who had heart attacks when running marathons. As a man who runs about 12 miles a week, he said, he was surprised by the possibility that long-distance running might pose heart risks.

His study looked only at calcium scores, not clinical outcomes. He and his colleagues plan to follow up with their patients for at least five years to evaluate the scores’ reliability at predicting heart problems.

Dr. Möhlenkamp cautioned that the study did not suggest that exercise is not beneficial. Rather, it seems that competitive exercise, like marathon running, may take a toll on some older athletes.
411 2006-11-14 Dressed in a carnival barker’s coat and straw hat, Mr. Garagiola declared, “Buy a car, get a check,” kicking off a practice that has been part of the automotive scene ever since.

Upon retiring from Chrysler, Mr. McCurry took a position with Toyota’s mid-Atlantic division in 1979 and joined the company’s American sales arm in 1982.

Attracted by Toyota’s simple operating system, which stresses the elimination of waste and continuous improvement, Mr. McCurry encouraged Toyota to broaden its approach from selling cars one at a time to individual customers, and to become more of an American-style player, taking a mass-market view.

Mr. McCurry, who had earned the nickname Captain Crunch at Chrysler — not after the breakfast cereal, but for the zeal with which he attacked challenges — surprised the industry with one of his early declarations at Toyota. He announced that he wanted the Japanese company, then in fourth place, behind General Motors, Ford and Chrysler, to hold 10 percent of the American market and sell at least one million vehicles a year in the United States.

The company reached that level for the first time in 1990, and its upward march in sales has continued with only a few interruptions. In July, Toyota passed Ford to reign briefly as the country’s No. 2 automaker in sales, behind G.M.

For all of 2006, Toyota is expected to sell about 2.4 million vehicles in the United States, where it now ranks as the third-biggest company, with about 15.2 percent of the American market, ahead of DaimlerChrysler.

In his years at Toyota, Mr. McCurry lobbied Toyota executives in Japan over a number of crucial vehicles — winning some battles and losing others.

In 1989, he was displeased when he saw the new version of the Toyota Camry that the company planned to introduce in three years. The Camry had recently gone into production at Toyota’s plant in Georgetown, Ky., which was its first American factory outside of a joint venture with General Motors in Fremont, Calif.

But that car was the same as the staid, if high-quality sedan sold in Japan and Mr. McCurry felt the next Camry should be aimed at American tastes. Instead, he was shown a car with “conservative, Japanese styling, what Japanese cars looked like at the time,” he recalled.

To their credit, Mr. McCurry said, Toyota engineers tried again and came up with a new, more-rounded design that became a hit when it went on sale in 1992.

Mr. McCurry also pushed for Toyota to build a big pickup truck that could take on a market that was a Detroit stronghold.

His efforts did not pay off immediately. “They were sensitive about entering another market, even though it was an important market,” Mr. McCurry said.

Toyota’s first effort at something bigger than its small pickup trucks was the T-100, a modest vehicle that Mr. McCurry later called a “political truck,” deliberately dulled down so that Toyota would avoid criticism. “It was a truck, but it was not a truck,” Mr. McCurry said.

But this week, Toyota will dedicate its newest plant in San Antonio, which will produce a new version of the Toyota Tundra pickup, the company’s biggest truck yet. It will go on sale early next year.

Mr. McCurry is survived by his wife, Jane, and two daughters.

Despite the criticism he faced in Detroit for joining a Japanese company, Mr. McCurry never questioned his decision to become a Toyota executive.

“Once I was there for about a year and got to know the people in Japan, I knew it was a great company,” he said in a 2003 interview. “I knew they could accomplish what they wanted to accomplish,” namely, building top-quality vehicles in a consistent fashion. Detroit, he added, “lost that.”
412 2006-11-14 Mr. Haniya has said that he believes that it will be two or three weeks before a final deal is reached. But the names being put forward have leaked out, and in a possible sign of Palestinians’ desire to press their case with the outside world, all three candidates for top jobs have studied in the United States.

The planners of a unity government have said that it would be made up of people without direct ties to any faction. Mr. Shbair, who earned a doctorate in microbiology from West Virginia University, is not a member of Hamas, though the university he led has close ties with the group.

Other candidates for top jobs surfaced Monday after a second day of talks. For foreign minister, negotiators have mentioned Ziad Abu Amr, 56, a professor and independent lawmaker who was backed by Hamas in the parliamentary elections in January, though he has opposed suicide bombings and supports concessions with Israel. He holds a doctorate in political science from Georgetown University.

For finance minister, negotiators have mentioned Salam Fayyad, 54, an economist who had served from 2002 to 2006 as the finance minister for the Palestinian Authority. He earned a doctorate in economics from the University of Texas.

But many issues remain. Other deals have fallen through, and negotiators caution that any names are contingent on resolving the toughest questions. Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president and Fatah leader, is visiting Jordan, but is scheduled to go to Gaza by the end of the week for higher-level talks.

In Israel, there is much skepticism about the possibility of a new government. The program the new government will embrace is more important than individual names, officials say.

Specifically, the question is whether the Palestinians will meet three conditions set by Israel and foreign donors for a resumption of funds: that the new government recognize Israel’s right to exist, that it renounce violence and that it accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements that imply a two-state solution.

A senior Israeli military official, speaking anonymously because he was not authorized to speak publicly, said any new government would be “Hamas lite,” in that Hamas would still hold the majority in the Palestinian Parliament and could exert a veto on any decisions. In recent days, even as negotiations went on, Hamas leaders have said the group would not compromise on its basic principles, including not recognizing Israel.

The Israeli military official said: “Even if there will be a government, we do not think it will change the fact that Hamas still will be the leading political power. It still controls the Parliament, and it still has control on the ground.”

But the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, who met with President Bush on Monday, told a Palestinian newspaper, Al Quds, that he could negotiate with Hamas if it did accept the three conditions, specified by the so-called quartet guiding the stalled peace efforts — the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations.

“If Hamas accepts the quartet conditions, I will sit down with them,” Mr. Olmert was quoted as saying.
413 2006-11-14 Others say Microsoft is trying to take the lead in interoperability so it can manage the relationships, rather than cede management to others.

The new Interop Vendor Alliance, which is being financed by Microsoft and is starting with 22 corporate members, will work publicly and privately to share information to solve common problems faced by customers and test real-world situations.

One example, company officials said, would be the not-so-simple task of letting a company’s employees sign on to multiple programs with a single user name and password, rather than using separate log-ons for each application.

In Europe, interoperability is a bit of a loaded word when it comes to Microsoft. The inability of Microsoft’s crucial operating system, Windows, to work well with its rivals’ products was at the heart of a European Commission antitrust case that resulted in a record fine against the company in 2004.

The commission found that by withholding vital information about Windows, the company deliberately restricted interoperability between personal computers using Windows and computer servers running software from Microsoft’s rivals.

Mr. Muglia, in an interview, said the alliance was “much, much broader than what has been mandated by the European Commission.” He continued, “This is about the long term.”

Bill Hilf, general manager of platform strategy at Microsoft, said business customers were telling the company interoperability was as important to them as security and reliability. Corporate and government technology managers are not buying from a single company, but they still need to share information from one system to another. The vendor alliance is one way to make it easier.

Siemens, NEC, Business Objects, Software A.G., Novell and Sun Microsystems are among the alliance’s members. Membership is open to Microsoft partners, technology licensees or “platform vendors,” the company said.

Jason Matusow, general manager of standards at Microsoft, said the companies would follow common rules governing the sharing of intellectual property, but Microsoft would not reveal any proprietary source code. “There will be no sharing of the secret sauce,” he said.

Brian Stevens, chief technology officer at Red Hat, the leading seller of Linux products, said Microsoft was to be commended for “moving in the right direction since the judgments” against it in various countries. But he cautioned that what would come out of the agreements was not clear.

“There’s so much lack of trust with Microsoft,” Mr. Stevens said. “We’re really looking for these agreements to be bidirectional, based on open standards. They’re a lot closer, but there needs to be more.”
414 2006-11-14 Apple Computer, which reported last month that it had found irregularities with its stock option grants, said yesterday that it had hired Donald J. Rosenberg from I.B.M. as its senior vice president and general counsel.

Mr. Rosenberg had held the same position at I.B.M., where he had worked for more than 30 years. At Apple, he will report to the chief executive, Steven P. Jobs. Mr. Rosenberg was named I.B.M.’s general counsel in January.

He fills a position left open when the longtime general counsel, Nancy Heinen, left Apple in May.

Apple is among the most prominent companies involved in the stock options scandals, which have led to internal or regulatory investigations at more than 150 companies to determine whether the dates of options were manipulated.
415 2006-11-14 Taking iron supplements may reduce the risk of infertility, a new study suggests.

Researchers examined data on women enrolled in the Nurses’ Health Study II, a prospective study of registered nurses, ages 24 to 42. Over eight years of follow-up, researchers recorded more than 3,500 cases of infertility among more than 18,000 women who were trying to become pregnant. Of these, 2,165 underwent medical investigation to determine the cause, and 438 were found to suffer from ovulatory infertility, or the inability to produce viable eggs.

After statistically adjusting for age, smoking, physical activity and dietary patterns, the women who used iron supplements had, on average, 40 percent less risk of ovulatory infertility than those who used none. Moreover, the higher the dose of the iron supplements, the lower the risk, so that women who took the highest doses — more than 41 milligrams a day — reduced their risk of ovulatory infertility by 62 percent.

Still, Dr. Jorge E. Chavarro, the study’s lead author and a research fellow at the Harvard School of Public Health, is not prepared to recommend iron supplements as an aid to becoming pregnant. “We need these results to be reproduced in randomized trials first,” Dr. Chavarro said. “But after a comprehensive evaluation of whether a woman has adequate body iron stores, it is certainly possible that this is something to be considered by healthy women who are trying to get pregnant.”

Writing in the November issue of Obstetrics & Gynecology, the authors concede that the group of women they studied was trying to become pregnant and therefore might have been more health-conscious to begin with, but they doubt that this could have affected the results.
416 2006-11-14 With Jan Siemens and other colleagues, Dr. Julius found out, using venom from 22 tarantulas and scorpions that they exposed to cultured mouse nerve cells with the TRPV1 receptor. One venom, from a tarantula native to the West Indies, activated the receptor. The findings were published in Nature.

Further analysis showed that the compounds in the venom were from a family of peptides known as ICK. Most of these peptides, particularly those in toxins that cause paralysis, inhibit receptors. This makes sense for a lethal toxin, Dr. Julius said, “because it wants to shut down the activity of the nerve cells so you die.” But the peptides in the spider venom work the opposite way, by activating the receptor and allowing the flow of ions into the cell.

Knowing what compounds are involved will help biochemists in further studies of the capsaicin receptor and similar pathways. “In the world of ion channels and receptors, identifying toxins is important for understanding how these molecules work,” Dr. Julius said. “These are good biochemical tools.”

The moon, planetary scientists will tell you, is deader than a door nail. Sure, there is a constant stream of small moonquakes, but volcanically speaking the moon stopped being active more than 3 billion years ago. Since then it’s been pretty much dead on the inside.

Maybe not totally, according to research by Peter H. Schultz of Brown University and colleagues. In the current issue of Nature, they describe a lunar feature that they say shows signs of a relatively recent release of gas from deep beneath the surface.

The feature is the Ina structure, a 200-foot-deep depression in the surface that looks as if it was created by the heel of a shoe (one that was about 5 miles long). It was first photographed by orbiting Apollo astronauts, and because of its location on the summit of a dome, it was thought to be the caldera of one of the dead volcanoes that pepper the moon.

But the researchers analyzed several characteristics of the Ina structure and concluded that it is probably less than 10 million years old. For one thing, there are relatively few impact craters from meteors. If the structure formed more than 3 billion years ago, there would be a lot more. For another, the spectral signature of the soil in the area indicates that it is “fresh,” having been exposed to weathering fairly recently.

The researchers suggest that the structure was created by periodic outgassing (of carbon dioxide, perhaps, or even water vapor) from within the moon, which would have blown the top off the surface in this region.

While it’s a far cry from a volcano, such last-gasp activity shows that there may be a little life in the old moon yet.

Among the most common equipment used to clean up after a marine oil spill is the oil skimmer. It is a very basic device, consisting of a rotating drum, belt or disk that constantly picks up the oil from the surface of the water. The oil is then removed by a scraper or roller.

But it’s not a very efficient device. The flat surface of a drum cannot pick up much oil, and brush-like surfaces, which increase the collecting area, are difficult to scrape clean, so much of the oil is returned to the water.

Now Victoria Broje and Arturo A. Keller of the University of California, Santa Barbara, have come up with a skimmer design that combines larger surface area with scrapeability. It is quite simple: a grooved drum with a scraper to match.

In a paper to be published next month in Environmental Science and Technology, the researchers describe their design and the tests that were conducted at the National Oil Spill Response Test Facility in Leonardo, N.J.

The amount of oil that can be collected depends on the viscosity of the liquid and on the depth and width of the V-shaped grooves. With a groove of a certain width, the oil that collects forms a meniscus that prevents it from draining off the drum before it is scraped off.

The tests showed that although the new design is not ideal for every situation, it can be up to three times more efficient than a smooth drum. It was especially good at collecting diesel fuel, which is difficult to clean up because of its low viscosity.

By now the link between vulture deaths on the Indian subcontinent and the drug diclofenac has been well established. Three species of the birds have been practically wiped out from eating carcasses of cattle and other livestock that were treated with the drug, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent.

But a new survey of 870 veterinary cases around the world shows that scavenging birds other than vultures may be at risk from diclofenac and similar drugs.

Richard Cuthbert of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and colleagues found that deaths were reported among raptors, storks, cranes and owls. Since the drugs are used in large parts of the world, including South America and southern Africa, they represent a potential threat to birds in those areas. The findings were reported in the journal Biology Letters.
417 2006-11-14 Ninety-nine people developed dementia over the course of the study, including 71 cases of Alzheimer’s disease. The average level of DHA among all the participants was 3.6 percent of all fatty acids, and the top 25 percent of the population had values above 4.2 percent. People in this top one-quarter in DHA levels had a 47 percent reduced risk of developing dementia, even after controlling for body mass index, diabetes, hypertension, smoking status and other known or suspected risks. Risk reduction was apparent only at that top level of DHA — those in the bottom three-quarters in DHA level showed no detectable difference in risk.

People who ate two or more servings of fish a week reduced their risk for dementia by 39 percent, but there was no effect on the risk for dementia among those who ate less than that.

The finding that DHA alone reduces risk, the authors write, is consistent with earlier data showing high levels of DHA in healthy brain tissue and low levels in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease.

Dr. Ernst J. Schaefer, the lead author of the study, was cautious in interpreting the results.

“This study doesn’t prove that eating fish oil prevents dementia,” he said. “It’s an observational study that presents an identified risk factor, and the next step is a randomized placebo-controlled study in people who do not yet have dementia.” Dr. Schaefer is chief of the Lipid Metabolism Laboratory at Tufts University.

The study was financed in part by Martek, a concern that manufactures DHA, and one author received a grant from Pfizer, France.

Eating fish is not a guarantee of having high levels of DHA. In fact, fish intake accounted for less than half of the variability in DHA levels. Other dietary intake and genetic propensities probably account for the rest. Dr. Schaefer pointed out that the kind of fish consumed is important. Fatty fish, he said, is best, and frying will cause DHA to deteriorate.

Supplements may be an additional source of DHA, but an editorial in the same issue, by Dr. Martha Clare Morris, an associate professor of medicine at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, points out that there are no published human studies of the effects of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation. The Food and Drug Administration does not endorse DHA or fish oil capsules, but recognizes doses of up to 3 grams a day of fish oil as generally safe. High intakes of fish oil can cause excessive bleeding in some people.

Dr. Morris writes that there are few human studies examining the effect of mercury intake from eating seafood, and it is not known if the risks of eating fish outweigh the benefits.

But, she adds, epidemiological studies consistently show positive health effects from fish consumption on mortality, cardiovascular risk factors and, now, dementia.
418 2006-11-14 A. We did a literature review. According to a 2004 article in The Lancet, between one and three million older Americans suffered some form of elder abuse from people they depended upon for their care. In the workplace, the General Social Survey studied over-65 workers between 1977 and 2002. Among them, perceived age discrimination rose from 11.6 percent to 16.9 percent. According to the government, 1.5 million older Americans live in nursing homes, 90 percent of which have inadequate staffing.

Older people also experience health care discrimination. Physicians are often less aggressive in treating their illnesses than they are with younger patients. Medical schools don’t teach much, if anything, about elder care. You almost never see a medical student in a nursing home. And you don’t see them taught much about death and dying, either. Moreover, Medicare doesn’t cover what a lot of what older people need — long-term care. The hospice coverage offered is minimal.

Medications? Forty percent of all prescriptions are written for older people, but many weren’t tested on older patients in clinical trials — this despite the fact that some drugs act differently in older bodies.

Q. Why aren’t they tested on older consumers?

A. The excuse is that it’s too complex to study older people because they tend to be taking a lot of different medications and they have diseases. But that’s why you should include them in trials. And there are ways to do it. You could study people in smaller clusters.

Q. In the 1960s, you coined the word “ageism.” Have you personally encountered any?

A. I’m fairly vigorous. I have financial resources. And I’m the boss here, which certainly protects me from ageism.

But there are two things I’ve noticed. One relates to the “R” word, “retired.” When I stepped down as the chair of geriatrics at Mount Sinai to build the Longevity Center, people began referring to me as “retired.” I quickly realized that “retired” was not a good word. If you are applying for grants from the N.I.H., you don’t want to be perceived as “retired,” which seems to be a synonym for “over the hill.”

The other thing relates to insensitivity about a disability. I have a hearing impairment. A third of all people over 65 have some hearing damage. I was recently at a conference in Washington, and the chairman wouldn’t turn on the sound system. So I asked him to do it. He said, “Aw, later.” You can only ask once about something like that.

Of course, none of this is as severe as being denied a job or health care, but one doesn’t like it.

Q. Your report mentions that the elderly are left out of most emergency planning. Why is this important?

A. Because most of the people who died in New Orleans were older. Following 9/11, my wife, Myrna Lewis, who was a social worker and who died in 2005, went to seek out the elderly in the neighborhoods around the World Trade Center. She found lots of older people who were really neglected in the emergency. They went without medications. Home health aides couldn’t get through to them. Some were living in feces.

Both events should get us thinking about what happens to older people in assisted care and nursing home facilities during emergencies — tornados, blackouts, hurricanes. Society is not sensitive to the fact that old people are not as able to survive under perilous circumstances. Homeland Security needs to be considering this.

Q. Much is made of the fact that the first cohort within the baby boomers are turning 60 this year. Will they transform aging as they’ve changed everything else?

A. I think they’re in for a hell of time, because society is not prepared for them. And I don’t think they’re a bit prepared for old age. They are often fat, unhealthy, and they haven’t been saving money — though a small percentage of them will receive inheritances. There aren’t enough nursing homes and elder care facilities to accommodate them.

Now, the boomers could become a strong public group by virtue of their size. They have political experience and they may use it to create change. If they are able to, it will mostly benefit Generations X and Y. The boomers are, quite frankly, a generation at risk.

Q. You will be 80 in January. As a child, did you wonder who you’d be when you got old?

A. I didn’t think about my own aging. In those days, the 1930s, you were lucky if you lived to 65. When Social Security first began, the life expectancy for men was 57.

I did feel a lot of sympathy for older people and poverty they experienced, particularly older women when they were widowed. You see, I was raised by grandparents. When I was 7, my grandfather suddenly died and we were homeless in the middle of the Depression. My grandmother went to work on a W.P.A. job, which was how we survived.

Some of what I saw then is still a problem today. The pundits like to say that we’ve solved elder poverty. But 25 percent of Americans over 65 live on less than $38 per day. A lot of these are in minority groups and most are women. The poorest sectors of our country today are black children and older women.

Q. Did you say earlier that your own wife had died?

A. She died last year. It was devastating. I haven’t recovered. One of the many ways Myrna’s death affects me is that we can’t reminisce together. But it’s worse than that; there is just this terrific loneliness. You keep going. Being left alone is one of the facts of aging. There’s data that suggests that people can actually die of a broken heart, become sick because of it.

Since her death, I’ve been very protective of myself, quite purposely. I go to bed earlier. I’ve been more thoughtful about my diet and activity levels. I pace myself. On weekends, I have this walking club. A whole group of us walk six miles through the city. I feel like I have to take care of myself. I still have work to do. And it’s important work!
419 2006-11-14 The chief executive of the Italian clothes maker Benetton, Silvano Cassano, resigned as a result of what the company said was a disagreement with the controlling family over expansion plans. Mr. Cassano, who had been with Benetton since 2003, will...
420 2006-11-14 WEISS--Bella. The Hebrew Free Burial Association mourns the passing of Bella Weiss, beloved mother of Jack Weiss, distinguished member of our Board of Directors. May he be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Andrew Feinman, Preside...
421 2006-11-14 Photo of New York Giants offensive tackle Luke Petitgout, latest Giant to sustain injury...
422 2006-11-14 General Electric said its Indian unit was growing strongly and expected to post sales of $3 billion in 2008 and $8 billion by 2010, up from $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion this year. Scott R. Bayman, the chief executive of GE India, said the company ...
423 2006-11-14 Senator John McCain is accustomed to staking out a lonely piece of ground, but on Iraq he is virtually an army of one. Nearly alone among major political figures in calling for an increase in American forces in Iraq, Mr. McCain is either taking a ...
424 2006-11-14 Palestinian negotiators said Monday that they were penciling in the names to lead a new government. They met over the weekend and again on Monday in their effort to unite the divided factions and restart the badly needed flow of foreign aid.      ...
425 2006-11-14 President Bush spent more than an hour on Monday with the independent panel examining strategic options for Iraq, and cautioned afterward that while he was open to new ideas, it was important for ''people making suggestions to recognize that the b...
426 2006-11-14 GERMAN CORPORATE SHAKE-UPS -- The ousters of the heads of two marquee German companies -- Deutsche Telekom and Volkswagen -- show how treacherous corporate life is becoming in Germany, where bosses are caught between a new breed of aggressive inve...
427 2006-11-15 Senator John McCain plans to file the required papers to form an exploratory committee for a presidential bid in 2008; former H.H.H. secretary, Tommy Thompson, says he will too....
428 2006-11-15 What is "market price"?...
429 2006-11-15 Tom Reynolds won re-election to the U.S. House in a tough race upstate -- but there are rumors he might not take his seat. His office says he will....
430 2006-11-15 "The tidal wave of activity," in the private-equity business "has been beneficial for just about anyone who calls himself a private equity lawyer," writes Amy Kolz of The American Lawyer. That's more true for Simpson Thacher & Bartlett than for ju...
431 2006-11-15 I got an e-mail this morning from Victor A. Ginsburgh, an economist in Belgium at Universite Libre de Bruxelles. Here's what he said: "I am sending you a paper that my coauthor (a philosopher) and I (an economist) just published on Galenson's ideas. As you will see, we quite disagree with his views, and do not discard these just by some hand waving, but try to do this using arguments that are rooted in art philosophy and art history, and in studies on creativity and genius in other areas."

To read the paper, click here.
432 2006-11-15 Is the airline industry finally headed toward its much-anticipated consolidation? US Airways' proposal to buy Delta Air Lines for $8 billion in cash and stock seemed to ignite such hopes on Wednesday, and shares of several airlines moved sharply h...
433 2006-11-15 An independent financial analyst at the center of a fight between a Canadian insurer and United States hedge funds appeared in federal court Tuesday to face unrelated charges of stealing more than $5 million from a Greek magnate. The court appeara...
434 2006-11-15 The Small Business Administration announced new rules yesterday intended to help small businesses obtain more federal contracts and to assure that contracts set aside for small businesses are not going to larger companies. Go to Article from The N...
435 2006-11-15 Major shareholders owning three-quarters of the Internet phone company Vonage Holdings are holding off on a regulatory step that would make it easier to sell their stock, which has fallen more than 60 percent since a high-profile initial public of...
436 2006-11-15 In what could amount to a clash of the titans, a group of the world's biggest investment banks will on Wednesday announce plans to build a platform for trading the shares of Europe's biggest companies in an effort to go head-to-head with the regio...
437 2006-11-15 The study tested anemia in kidney patients who did not yet need dialysis, a mechanical blood filtering technique used to keep alive patients whose kidneys have almost entirely failed. But its findings should apply to patients on dialysis as well, Dr. Singh said.

The findings of the new study reinforce mounting concerns that kidney patients may be receiving too much epoetin, in part because dialysis clinics make bigger profits for providing larger doses. Studies show that the clinics make little, if any, profit on the actual dialysis services they provide for Medicare patients, who are the vast majority of patients.

The amount of epoetin received by the typical American dialysis patient has nearly tripled since the early 1990s, and the average patient now gets epoetin doses similar to those given to the first group in Dr. Singh’s study. Meanwhile, death rates for dialysis remain higher in the United States than in Europe, where doses are comparable to the second group. About 22 percent of American patients die every year, compared with about 15 percent of patients in Europe.

Dr. Singh said his study, along with a second trial with similar results also published yesterday in the New England Journal, did not necessarily prove that the use of epoetin was harmful.

But the studies show that many patients are having their anemia overcorrected and that doctors should target lower levels of red blood cells in their patients, he said. The simplest way to do that would be to give patients less epoetin.

Amgen, which sells epoetin under the brand name Epogen and darbepoetin under the name Aranesp, said its drugs have been a boon for people with anemia and are properly used in the vast majority of patients. In fact, anemia may still be under-treated in both cancer and kidney patients, scientists at Amgen argue.

Amgen said it is committed to the safety of its drugs and is conducting a 4,000-patient clinical trial to study Aranesp in kidney patients. But some scientists say trial will not answer the most crucial question about the use of epoetin and darbepoetin: whether the drugs are being routinely overused.

In the first nine months of 2006, Amgen sold $4.9 billion of Aranesp and Epogen, accounting for almost half its total revenues. Total sales of the two drugs rose almost 15 percent compared with the first nine months of 2005.

Johnson & Johnson, which sells epoetin under the brand names Procrit in the United States and Eprex everywhere else, reported sales of $2.4 billion in the first nine months of 2006, down slightly from 2005.

Epoetin, a naturally occurring protein produced mainly in the kidneys, works by stimulating bone marrow cells to produce hemoglobin, the main component of red blood cells. Darbepotein, which was introduced in 2001, is a version of epoetin that has been slightly modified so that it does not need to be given as frequently. Both drugs are given via injection, either intravenously or into the skin.

Since epoetin was approved in 1989, it has become a standard treatment for more than 90 percent of dialysis patients in the United States and is increasingly used for patients with earlier-stage kidney disease as well. The drug is also widely used for cancer patients, who often suffer from anemia as a side effect of the toxic medicines used for chemotherapy. Some cancers can also cause anemia on their own.

Many kidney and cancer doctors and patients say that epoetin has greatly improved the lives of people receiving dialysis or chemotherapy. Severe anemia can be frustrating and debilitating, leaving patients unable to work, walk for more than a few minutes or even think clearly, as well as increasing their risk of infection and heart disease.

Before epoetin was introduced, blood transfusions were the only effective treatment for anemia. But transfusions carry a risk of infection and can eventually prevent patients from being able to receive transplants. For most patients, epoetin appeared to provide a safe alternative.

“The drug in and of itself has really advanced care for patients, so that they’re able to go back to do the things that they previously couldn’t,” said Kris Robinson, the executive director of the American Association of Kidney Patients and a kidney transplant recipient. “It makes a huge difference.”

There are no set doses of epoetin for patients. Instead, the drug is given with the goal of raising hemoglobin levels to a specific target level. Aiming for a higher average hemoglobin target effectively raises the amount of epoetin that patients receive.

The prescribing label for Epogen, which is approved by the Food and Drug Administration, says that dialysis patients should have a target hemoglobin level of 11 to 12 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter of blood. In general, healthy adult men have hemoglobin levels of 14 grams or more per deciliter, and patients are considered to definitely need treatment if their levels are below 10 grams.

But guidelines for treatment devised by the National Kidney Foundation say that a target of 11 to 13 grams per deciliter is appropriate. Amgen sponsored the development of those guidelines, though the National Kidney Foundation said that it did not influence them.

The difference between the F.D.A. and Kidney Foundation guidelines may seem small. But Dr. Singh’s study compared kidney patients with an average hemoglobin of 12.6 grams/deciliter with those who had an average of 11.3 grams/deciliter, and found a 34 percent greater incidence of deaths and heart attacks in those with the higher levels.
438 2006-11-15 SHANGHAI, Nov. 15 — James Blake was the last of eight players to qualify for the year-end Tennis Masters Cup. Now, after pulling off upsets of the second- and third-ranked players in the world, he is the first of the eight to qualify for the semifinals.

Blake beat No. 2 Rafael Nadal on Monday and No. 3 Nikolay Davydenko today.

“It’s tough to ever expect to beat the No. 2 and No. 3 players in the world in consecutive matches,” Blake said. “But I realize the depth of men’s tennis, even just to say it’s going down to the top eight players, anyone can beat anyone.”

Blake, who came from behind to beat Davydenko, by 2-6, 6-4, 7-5, also got some help from Nadal in advancing from the round-robin phase of the tournament to the semifinals. Nadal’s 7-6 (2), 6-2 victory today over Tommy Robredo guaranteed that Blake would have the top position in their four-man round-robin group.

With one match remaining in the round-robin, Nadal and Davydenko will vie for the group’s second semifinal spot.

Any doubts about Blake’s resilience, were put to rest this week. In a 6-4, 7-6 (0) victory over Nadal, Blake erased a 4-0 deficit in the second set to win the match. Against Davydenko, Blake bounced back from a 6-2, 4-2 deficit.
439 2006-11-15 The judge in the trial of two former Seton Hall students charged with arson and murder in a 2000 dormitory fire yesterday delayed opening statements in the case until this morning. The judge, Harold W. Fullilove of State Superior Court rescheduled the statements without explanation after individually questioning all 16 jurors and alternates about whether they had read a Sunday newspaper article detailing some of the testimony that he had barred lawyers from presenting. No jurors were removed as a result of the series of conferences beside the bench.
440 2006-11-15 City Councilwoman Melinda R. Katz, a Democrat from Queens, plans to introduce a bill today that would raise the legal age at which unaccompanied minors could enter a bar or club, to 18 from 16. “I’m not sure why you need to be able to walk into a bar when you’re 16,” Ms. Katz said. “This is a logical step towards making the nightlife safer in New York.” Ms. Katz, who has also introduced a bill to ban bottle service at clubs, said the proposal was spurred in part by the deaths, over the past year, of two young women who had been out drinking, though neither of them was under 18. In practice, it is unclear what effect the law would have. Though some large clubs do have under-21 nights, most have a strict over-21 policy, said Robert S. Bookman, an lawyer for the New York Nightlife Association, a trade group.
441 2006-11-15 The F.B.I. said yesterday it had no updates on the theft of a painting by Goya that was being trucked to an exhibition opening on Friday at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. On Monday, the authorities said little about the theft of “Children with a Cart,” painted in 1778. Jerri Williams, a special agent and spokeswoman for the F.B.I.’s Philadelphia office, said yesterday that the painting was found to be missing near Scranton, Pa., last Thursday while the truck was unattended. “The people who were transporting it stopped for a break,” she said, “and the painting was taken from the vehicle.” Anyone with information was urged to call the F.B.I. at (215) 418-4000.
442 2006-11-15 El Al Israel Airlines said it had canceled its option to buy 10 Boeing Company 787 jets. In a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, the Israeli carrier explained that it had not come to an agreement with the airplane manufacturer within the time frame Boeing had set. El Al said that Boeing had agreed to return the carrier’s $1.5 million deposit for the jets, which would have been delivered from 2012 to 2013. The carrier said it was considering other options for jets, including both Boeing and Airbus aircraft.
443 2006-11-15 Vice President Dick Cheney asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit brought against him by a former operative of the Central Intelligence Agency who says the White House leaked her identity to reporters. Mr. Cheney’s lawyers criticized the suit in court papers, saying it invented constitutional rights, intruded on national security discussions and came two years after the statute of limitations had expired. The former operative, Valerie Wilson, says her identity was disclosed as retribution for her husband’s criticism of the Bush administration’s prewar intelligence on Iraq.
444 2006-11-15 A judge dismissed a juror who had been heard discussing news coverage of the case of a man on trial in the killing of a fashion writer in Truro. On Monday, jurors said they were deadlocked after five days of deliberations in the case of Christopher McCowen, who is accused of killing Christa Worthington in 2002. An alternate was seated, and the judge, Gary A. Nickerson of Superior Court in Barnstable, ordered deliberations to start over.
445 2006-11-15 Hundreds of gamblers who had been waiting hours in a foggy drizzle, poured into Pennsylvania’s first slot-machine parlor as its doors opened in Wilkes-Barre. Within 10 minutes, most of the casino’s 1,100 machines were occupied. The Mohegan Indian tribe of Connecticut spent $70 million on the parlor, which includes two gambling floors, a bar, and a food court with three restaurants.
446 2006-11-15 Short selling is not illegal. Yet short sellers, including the hedge fund giant SAC Capital, have been targets of suits filed by Fairfax Financial, the Canadian pharmaceutical company Biovail and the Internet retailer Overstock.com, which have argued that short sellers’ tactics at times amount to racketeering.

Congress recently held hearings to consider toughening laws on short selling.

It has also been suggested that Mr. Contogouris may have had another role. The New York Post reported in September that Mr. Contogouris had approached a Fairfax Financial executive on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. An F.B.I. spokesman, James Margolin, said yesterday, “There might be something to what this guy is saying.”

“We don’t confirm when someone is cooperating or providing information to us,” he added.

The criminal complaint says that Mr. Contogouris, 45, “was diverting assets belonging to the companies to bank accounts controlled by Contogouris.” While the complaint does not identify the companies, the accusations are similar to those made in civil litigation against Mr. Contogouris brought by Decana Inc. and Prestige Holdings, companies founded by Dimitris K. Manios of Greece, who died in 1995.

Mr. Contogouris was released yesterday by a federal magistrate judge on a $200,000 bond. He and his lawyer declined to comment after the proceeding. If convicted, he could be imprisoned for up to 20 years and fined more than $10 million.

A lawyer for Fairfax Financial, Marc E. Kasowitz, said the criminal charges strengthened their stance.

“The charges in that complaint don’t surprise us given Fairfax’s own claims against Mr. Contogouris and others for being engaged in a racketeering conspiracy,” Mr. Kasowitz said.

Shares of Fairfax Financial traded in the United States closed up 10 percent yesterday, to $172.56. The stock has risen more than 50 percent since the company sued Mr. Contogouris and the hedge funds.

This month, Mr. Contogouris threatened to countersue Fairfax’s founder, V. Prem Watsa, and other officers in federal court in Louisiana, contending that the company committed accounting fraud and used a $2 billion scheme to “loot and mortgage” policyholders. While Mr. Contogouris posted a 100-page complaint on his Web site, it does not appear that a lawsuit has been filed.

People briefed on the federal criminal investigation said that investigators had been in contact with lawyers for Fairfax Financial and have shared information.

The criminal complaint against Mr. Contogouris relied on testimony provided by an F.B.I. agent, B. J. Kang. Last week, the agent provided testimony in a criminal complaint against Michael Lair, who is accused of contacting law firms representing Biovail and SAC and asking for money in exchange for information.
447 2006-11-15 But in recent years, all the visas allotted for a given year were claimed on or before the start of the fiscal year on Oct. 1.

“We can’t hire people,” said Jenifer Verdery, director of work force policy at Intel.

The notion of allowing more skilled foreign workers in the United States generally enjoys bipartisan support in Congress. Earlier this year, the Senate passed a bill that would increase the cap on H-1B visas to 115,000 and would automatically raise the cap by a further 20 percent if all visas for a given year were claimed. The bill also would raise the number of employment-based green cards issued to 290,000, from 140,000.

But the bill stalled as the House and Senate deadlocked on broader immigration reform legislation. And not everyone agrees that raising the cap on visas is a good idea.

“We think that before raising the H-1B cap there should be reform of the H-1B system,” said Ronil Hira, vice president for career activities at IEEE-USA, a professional organization representing engineers and computer programmers.

The organization, which includes many immigrants among its ranks, is not opposed to legal immigration. But Mr. Hira said that the H-1B visa program, which requires companies to pay foreign workers wages comparable to those they pay American workers, was riddled with loopholes that allow employers to pay subpar wages to immigrants. That, in turn, depresses the wages of American workers, Mr. Hira said.

Lynn Shotwell, chairwoman of Compete America, said there was virtually no chance that Congress would pass the Senate bill this year. But Ms. Shotwell said the coalition, which includes universities and the Chamber of Commerce, was asking Congress to raise the cap on H-1B visas and green cards for the remainder of the fiscal year.

Members of the coalition are hopeful that legislation modeled after the Senate bill could be enacted next year, when Democrats will control Congress. House Democrats have promoted what they are calling an innovation agenda that includes wide availability of visas for skilled immigrants.

The National Venture Capital Association, which is among those advocating an expansion in visas and green cards for skilled workers, is backing that case with a study, to be released Wednesday, that highlights the role of immigrant entrepreneurs in the American economy.

The study found that one in four publicly traded American companies that were initially financed by venture capitalists in the last 15 years included at least one immigrant among their founders. During the 1980s, immigrants were involved in founding one in five such companies, and prior to 1980 only 7 percent.

“The notion of being able to come here and shape your own destiny is tremendously appealing and, you have to believe, valuable for the economy, job creation and wealth creation,” said Axel Bichara, a partner at Atlas Venture in Boston. Mr. Bichara came to the United States from Germany in 1986 to study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A year later, he became co-founder of a software company.
448 2006-11-15 The core wholesale inflation rate, a measure that does not take into account the frequent gyrations in energy and food prices, declined 0.9 percent last month, its biggest fall in 13 years.

The overall picture of wholesale inflation last month was heavily colored by plummeting prices for light trucks, which include sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans, and declining oil prices. Light truck prices fell 12.4 percent, the biggest year-over-year decline since the Labor Department began tracking them in 1964. The price of wholesale gasoline dropped 18.5 percent from October 2005 to October 2006.

Still, even if the decline in vehicle prices had not been so steep, wholesale inflation in October would have been low. When the core rate is recalculated without automobile sales, wholesale prices rose 0.1 percent.

“There’s evidence that with energy prices falling and with the slowdown in the housing market, there’s a picture of more benign price increases emerging,” said Peter Kretzmer, an economist at Bank of America. “I don’t think it will be that long before this starts to translate into somewhat muted consumer price trends.”

Whether falling prices at the producer level eventually lead to falling prices for consumers is never as direct as it might seem. But some economists found it encouraging that yesterday’s report was the second consecutive set of wholesale price data to show an overall decline. In September, wholesale prices fell 1.3 percent. For the year, prices are down 1.6 percent.

Pressure continued to ease further up the production chain. Prices of crude goods — items in the earliest stages of production, like gravel, scrap metal or animals used for slaughter — fell 10.5 percent in October after declining 3.4 percent in September. Prices of intermediate goods declined 1.1 percent.

The falling costs of materials could help reduce the threat of inflation from rising labor costs. One critical question Fed policy makers must answer as they chart the nation’s monetary policy is whether the recent wage gains — which have just started to outpace inflation — are pressuring employers to pass along the cost by raising prices.

“The issue is what happens with labor,” said Jack Caffrey, an equity strategist with J. P. Morgan Private Bank. “If the Fed then remains with their focus on inflation risks being the dominant issue, it likely stays with a tighter monetary policy for longer.”

William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said yesterday that the Fed could go either way. “I believe that the outlook for Fed policy is roughly symmetrical,” he said after giving a speech in Wilmington, Del. “I can imagine data coming in that would make me want to tighten policy. And I could imagine data coming in that would lead me to believe that we ought to be easing policy.”

Economists said the tipping point for the Fed to lower rates could come if the labor market shows signs of weakening. Last month, unemployment fell to 4.4 percent, the lowest level since May 2001. That is close to what economists consider full employment, and some experts have said they think the number of jobless will rise in the coming months.

“People will debate how quickly before the Fed pulls the trigger, and how much weakening you need,” said James O’Sullivan, an economist at UBS. “But if we start to see the unemployment rate edge up, I think it’s just a matter of time before the Fed starts easing.”
449 2006-11-15 The Small Business Administration announced new rules yesterday intended to help small businesses obtain more federal contracts and to assure that contracts set aside for small businesses are not going to larger companies.

The new rules will require small businesses to recertify their size when they are purchased by or merged with a larger business, or at the end of the five-year point of a contract.

In the past, size has been determined at the beginning of a contract and was retained over the life of that contract.

A company that was small at the time it received a contract would continue to be listed that way throughout the life of the award, which is some cases could be up to 20 years. (A small business is determined by revenue and number of employees. For manufacturers, the threshold is fewer than 500 workers. For the service and retail industries, it is typically $6.5 million in revenue.) This allows concerns that had grown large to compete for small- business set-asides despite their size. The new regulation does not require the government to terminate an existing contract if a company’s size changes.

“This regulation will go a long way toward ensuring that contract awards get in the hands of small-business owners, federal agencies get the proper credit toward their small-business contracting goals and small-business contract awards are fairly and accurately reported,” Steven C. Preston, the S.B.A. administrator, said in a statement.
450 2006-11-15 Abigail Moore, a spokeswoman for British Airways, said by e-mail message that Europe should pare the proposal to cover only flights within the union. As it stands, she said the proposal would “risk international disputes and could lead to retaliation by non-E.U. countries.”

The proposal draws from the principles of an established system that Europe now uses to help combat global warming and meet emissions targets set forth under the Kyoto Protocol. Under that plan, which has so far exempted airlines, governments allocate carbon dioxide emissions targets for producers of power, cement, fuels, pulp and paper. Companies must then purchase allocations, or credits, if they exceed those targets.

Europe is expected to make its proposals public before the new year; the proposal is likely to face intense opposition in the United States, which could delay approval.

Stavros Dimas, the European Union’s commissioner for the environment, could also amend the proposal before Europe’s governments examine it. Opposition from industries and others is already mounting.

“Non-European countries, including the U.S., believe that unilateral imposition of emissions trading requirements absent mutual agreement between nations violates international law. Air carriers have dramatically improved their fuel efficiency and trading obligations are unnecessary to spur continued improvement," said David A. Castelveter, vice president of the Air Transport Association of America.

Airline officials warn that proposed emission-control measures could mean higher costs for passengers, who already face frustrations and delays because of increased security checks. The officials also say that aviation accounts for 2 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in Europe.

Barbara Helfferich, a spokeswoman for Mr. Dimas, the environmental commissioner, declined to comment on the draft ahead of presentation on or around Dec. 20.

The plan covers only carbon emissions. But Europe also recommends separate legislation regulating another pollutant, nitrogen oxides. The amount of these pollutants could rise, even as jet engines are designed to cut down on carbon dioxide.

If governments fail to regulate nitrogen oxides through special airport charges, Europe warns that it will start charging for these pollutants, as well, by raising costs to airlines as they seek to meet their carbon allowances.

“A pragmatic and precautionary approach is required,” the draft law states. Under the proposal, airlines would buy 10 percent of their credits through an auction system for the first two years of the program; the other 90 percent would be distributed free. Then, starting in 2013, airlines would be obliged to buy 20 percent of their credits; and starting in 2018, that amount would rise to 40 percent in order to discourage airlines from selling unused credits to improve their profits.

Each European government would manage emissions targets for carriers in its country. The governments would also be responsible for foreign-based airlines that use their airports most frequently.
451 2006-11-15 The New York Civil Liberties Union said yesterday that the agency charged with investigating civilian complaints of police misconduct has allowed a backlog of cases to build up that could jeopardize the disciplinary process.

But a spokesman for the agency, the Civilian Complaint Review Board, disputed the criticism, saying that the civil liberties union misunderstood the way the agency does its work.

In a letter to the review board, the civil liberties union said that one review panel had not met between April and October 2005, allowing 800 cases of police misconduct allegations to build up.

When the panel met in October, the civil liberties union said, it disposed of more than 800 cases in one day.

“No matter how capable the members of the panel, it seems virtually impossible that over 800 cases could be meaningfully reviewed in one day,” Christopher Dunn, associate legal director of the civil liberties union, wrote in the letter to Franklin H. Stone, chairwoman of the Civilian Complaint Review Board. Mr. Dunn added that because any discipline or penalties must by imposed within 18 months of an incident, “this creates the distinct possibility that officers escaped discipline simply because the board did not complete its work in a timely manner.”
452 2006-11-15 “I’m really disappointed,” said Michael F. Jacobson, executive director for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a health advocacy group. “I thought they were going to come up with something that was somewhat responsive to the problem. It’s pretty pathetic.”

Mr. Jacobson said that under the new guidelines, so-called healthy ads could include ones for sugar-coated cereal because they met the industry’s and the Food and Drug Administration’s definition of “healthy,” which did not account for sugar. The “healthy lifestyle message,” could include Ronald McDonald pedaling a bicycle while eating junk food, he said.

“That message still does more harm than good,” he said. “It’s a joke.”

Deborah Platt Majoras, the Federal Trade Commission chairwoman, praised the new industry guidelines as “important steps.”

“The F.T.C. works closely with a number of self-regulatory programs and will be watching closely to see whether this program results in meaningful improvements in food and beverage advertising to children,” she said in a statement.

But Gary Ruskin, executive director of Commercial Alert, a consumer advocacy group, said the new guidelines — announced by the Council of Better Business Bureaus and the National Advertising Review Council — were further proof that the food and advertising industries could not police themselves. He said he believed that the new Democratic-controlled Congress would be more open to passing laws to regulate advertising directed at children.

“Self-regulation has been a dreadful failure for decades,” Mr. Ruskin said. “This is more of the same.”

The advertising guidelines were released as consumer groups, academics and parents are demanding a crackdown on food marketing aimed at America’s increasingly obese children.

Last December, the Institute of Medicine, a federal advisory group, found that food marketing practices aimed at children were “out of balance with healthful diets and contribute to an environment that puts their health at risk.” The report concluded that Congress should take action if the food industry did not do a better job of regulating itself.

Last May, the F.T.C. and the Department of Health and Human Services urged the food industry to overhaul its marketing practices and develop healthier products.

Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, a vocal critic of food marketing that aims at children, said the initiatives could represent progress if they are properly enforced.

“But the program leaves companies significant leeway to continue marketing unhealthy foods to kids,” he said. “And ultimately, the new initiative is only as good as the enforcement.”

To date, oversight of children’s advertising has been left largely to the Children’s Advertising Review Unit, an industry-financed watchdog group that has been criticized as toothless and too limited in scope. Under the new guidelines, the unit would have broader authority to monitor children’s ads.

The 10 companies that agreed to participate in the new program to promote healthier foods, called the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative, account for about two-thirds of children’s food and beverage advertising on television, and its organizers hope to expand it to include more companies. The participants also include Cadbury Schweppes, Campbell Soup, Hershey’s, Kellogg, Kraft Foods, PepsiCo and Unilever.

The companies will develop individual plans for how they will address the new guidelines during the next six to nine months. Those plans will then be posted online and enforced by the Council for Better Business Bureaus, which is hiring additional employees to monitor the program.

C. Lee Peeler, executive vice president of advertising self-regulation for the Council of Better Business Bureaus, said it was significant that the nation’s leading food and beverage companies had voluntarily agreed to make “public, enforceable commitments” about how they advertise to children. He said the goal was to improve the mix of advertising messages that children received to include messages about healthy lifestyles and nutritious foods.

“It’s really much different than what’s happened in the past,” said Mr. Peeler, who is also president and chief executive at the National Advertising Review Council. While acknowledging that the changes were not everything the Center for Science in the Public Interest wanted, he said the guidelines were “a major step forward.”
453 2006-11-15 Airline passengers will soon be able to connect their iPods to in-flight entertainment systems and watch their favorite videos while traveling on any of six major carriers, the iPod maker Apple Computer said yesterday.

Air France, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Emirates, KLM and the United Airlines unit of the UAL Corporation will begin offering passengers iPod seat connections, which power and charge iPods during flight and allow video on the devices to be viewed on seat-back displays.

The service will begin in the middle of next year. Other terms of the deals were not disclosed.

Apple said it was working on introducing the iPod service on other airlines.

To date, Apple has sold nearly 70 million iPods and more than 1.5 billion songs through its iTunes music store. It has also made popular TV shows and movies available for purchase and download through its Internet store.
454 2006-11-15 At $6 million annually, the Mets may be setting the baseline figure for a No. 3 starter. The Mets are aware that Hernández often seems to need a late-season sabbatical, and that skipping a start or two here or there refreshes him and makes him a better pitcher. After missing two weeks late in the season because of fatigue, he went 2-2 in his final five starts with a 2.01 E.R.A.

Minaya said that Hernández’s late-season success, combined with the development of many of their younger pitchers, gave him comfort heading into next season. “This puts us in a position where we don’t have to make some moves,” Minaya said.

But the Mets will anyway, of course, and the first one could come as soon as this week. The Mets have spoken with several teams, including the Chicago White Sox, about potential trades at the general managers meeting here. They are interested in pitchers Freddy García and Javier Vázquez, a longtime favorite of Minaya’s. No one on the Mets is untouchable, Minaya added — “Babe Ruth got traded,” he said — although he did not elaborate on the turn of events that befell the Red Sox afterward. Minaya has received many inquiries about the Mets’ stockpile of young pitchers and outfielders.

The Mets’ pitching list begins with Philip Humber and Mike Pelfrey, their highly regarded draft picks from 2004 and 2005, and it also includes Brian Bannister, Alay Soler, Oliver Pérez, John Maine and Aaron Heilman, who would prefer to start next season and would not be averse to receiving that opportunity elsewhere. It is doubtful that the Mets would consider trading Humber or Pelfrey except in a blockbuster deal that would yield someone who would remain under their contractual control for a few years.

The Mets saved about $85 million to $90 million by not winning the Daisuke Matsuzaka sweepstakes, which will give them the flexibility to spread that money in a few areas.

About 10 teams, including the Mets, have inquired about Vicente Padilla, according to his agent, Paul Kinzer, who noted that Padilla would prefer to pitch in a warm climate but that it was not his only consideration.

Padilla, a durable, hard-throwing right-hander who was 15-10 with Texas last season, would slide nicely into the Mets’ rotation of finesse pitchers, but they currently view him as a fall-back option in case they are unsuccessful in their pursuit of the free-agent Barry Zito or they cannot acquire a front-line pitcher in a trade.

“We have to look into whether this market is overpriced,” Minaya said. The Mets figure to devote most of their remaining payroll to pitching, making it more likely that, if they intend to add a left fielder, it will come in a trade, perhaps someone like Milwaukee’s Kevin Mench.

They officially re-signed second baseman José Valentín on Tuesday to a one-year deal worth $3.8 million next season with a vesting option for 2008. They are still interested in obtaining Julio Lugo, according to a baseball executive who was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to speak candidly about another team’s plans. The Mets envision the 31-year-old Lugo, who has played a majority of his games at shortstop, as an everyday second baseman, with Valentín receiving a similar number of plate appearances. Both players can play multiple positions. “He protects me up the middle, he protects me in other areas,” Minaya said of Valentín.

The Mets have a good relationship with Lugo’s new agents, Sam and Seth Levinson, who also represent David Wright, Steve Trachsel and Cliff Floyd. Minaya spoke with the Levinsons at the lobby bar of the Naples Grande Resort and Club late into Tuesday morning. To sign Lugo, who finished last season with the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Mets would have to outbid the Red Sox and perhaps the Blue Jays.
455 2006-11-15 WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 (Reuters) — Automakers left a White House meeting on Tuesday without specific promises of help and doubtful that President Bush shared their concern that Japan manipulates its currency to their disadvantage.

Battered by declining market share and high costs, the chief executives of General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and DaimlerChrysler’s Chrysler unit pressed their agenda for lower health care costs, help in developing a market for alternative fuels, and action on their complaints of unfair trade practices.

Alan R. Mulally of Ford, Rick Wagoner of G.M. and Thomas W. LaSorda of Chrysler said they differed with Mr. Bush on some issues, including their charge that Japan undervalues the yen, aiding their Japanese rivals, Toyota and Honda.

“I can’t honestly say that it appeared the president 100 percent saw it that way,” Mr. Wagoner said of their charge that Japan manipulates its currency.

Mr. Bush told reporters after the hour-long meeting that he would carry a broad message to Asian countries to trade fairly with the United States and to open their markets.

The auto chiefs said the meeting did find common ground on several topics. These included the need to address high health care costs and bolster production of alternative-fueled vehicles to reduce energy dependence.

The three said Mr. Bush understood the bleak financial plight of Detroit companies and the painful efforts, particularly at G.M. and Ford, to restructure their operations under the weight of huge financial losses.
456 2006-11-15 BEIJING, Nov. 14 — China should intensify its fight against intellectual property theft with a crackdown on organized crime gangs that are responsible for widespread copyright piracy, Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez said Tuesday.

As the United States maintained pressure on China to curb rampant counterfeiting, Mr. Gutierrez called on Beijing to make it easier to prosecute criminals who steal intellectual property.

He said contacts between American and Chinese legal authorities and recent enforcement actions had revealed that organized crime was involved in many piracy cases.

“These are criminal organizations and one of the things they do is run a supply chain for illicit goods, pirated goods,” Mr. Gutierrez said during an interview on the second day of a four-day visit to China at the head of an American business delegation. “This is organized crime. One day it could be T-shirts, the next day it could be watches and the next day it could be medicines.”

With China on track to record a huge trade surplus with the United States this year, Mr. Gutierrez renewed a warning that intellectual property theft in China was a threat to trade ties.

Protectionists in the United States have become an increasingly vocal group, he said in a speech to business executives, adding, “and they point to the lack of robust I.P. protection in China as a top reason why we should put protectionist policies in place.”

Mr. Gutierrez said the theft of intellectual property was costing United States businesses an estimated $2.3 billion a year.
457 2006-11-15 Of the measures approved by voters, “about half of them are purely procedural or largely symbolic,” said John D. Echeverria, the executive director of the Georgetown Environmental Law and Policy Institute. In Florida, for example, the State Legislature, by a three-fifths vote of each house, can make an exception to a ban on transferring condemned property from one private entity to another.

Strict constitutional amendments have been added in South Carolina and Georgia — states where eminent domain is not used for economic development, said Timothy Sandefur, a staff lawyer for the Pacific Legal Foundation, a libertarian group that represents property owners in condemnation cases.

But in Michigan, where officials are trying to cope with decades of disinvestment in cities like Detroit and Flint, a new constitutional amendment is likely to have a “chilling effect on the willingness of investors to undertake new development,” said John E. Mogk, a law professor at Wayne State University.

Though property-rights groups cheered last week’s election results, their victory was tempered by the failure — except in Arizona — of initiatives aimed at discouraging government officials from making zoning and other land-use decisions. California, Idaho and Washington State defeated initiatives to require compensation for owners of property that lost value as a result of a government action to restrict its use.

That the measure was rejected by three-fourths of the voters in Idaho, considered a strong property-rights state, suggests that the movement against so-called regulatory takings is doomed, said David Barron, a Harvard Law School professor. “It shows that the people recognize that the property-rights movement is potentially just divesting them of their ability to decide their own future as a community,” he said. “People don’t want that to happen.”

In Oregon, which passed a similar measure in 2004, local officials have waived zoning rules to avoid paying nearly $6 billion to compensate property owners who claimed economic losses.

But California’s eminent domain and antizoning initiative lost by only four percentage points after opponents put together a huge coalition that included antitax groups concerned about the potential cost of compensating property owners for land-use changes.

The California measure was one of eight propositions on ballots throughout the country backed by groups linked to Howard S. Rich, a New York real estate investor. In Arizona, where the measure was one of 19 on the ballot, the proponents outspent the opponents 4 to 1, according to The Arizona Republic. The situation was reversed in California, where proponents were outspent 3 to 1, said John F. Shirey, the executive director of the California Redevelopment Association, a trade group.

California has already tinkered with its eminent domain powers, but Mr. Shirey said the state should take further steps — like passing legislation to prevent the condemnation of single-family homes — to head off future property-rights initiatives. “We need to do something substantive to give people better assurances than they have now that something like what occurred in Connecticut couldn’t happen in California,” he said.

Eminent domain specialists on both sides of the issue say many of the statutes enacted by state legislatures have few teeth, either because the language is vague or the measures impose only minor restrictions on public officials.

“A lot of state legislators don’t really believe in property rights,” Mr. Sandefur said. He praised Pennsylvania as one of a handful of states that have enacted a “well-crafted, careful, thought-out measure,” but noted that officials could continue condemning property for redevelopment in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh until 2012.

Mr. Barron, the Harvard Law professor, said much of the legislation was “more hype than not,” often riddled with exceptions inserted during the legislative process. Indiana — another state praised by Mr. Sandefur — includes technology parks as a “public use” for which eminent domain powers can be used.

The initiatives approved Nov. 7 tend to be shorter and more restrictive than the bills, “but there will be a lot of interpretative questions about what they mean,” Mr. Barron said.

Amy S. Doppelt, a managing director at Fitch Ratings, said the initiatives were often unclear. “Frequently, the language is quite broad,” she said. “It creates a lot of uncertainty.” Communities that can no longer use condemnation could find themselves at a competitive disadvantage, which could ultimately lower their credit rating, she said.

In many communities, eminent domain powers are used only sparingly. That is not the case in Detroit, where officials have worked to bring industrial parks and middle-income housing developments to tracts of land that are largely, but not entirely, vacant.

“Any project requiring an assembly of land of 50 acres or more since 1960 has required eminent domain at some point in order to complete the project,” said Mr. Mogk, the Wayne State professor.

But the use of condemnation powers to replace one set of property owners with another has often proved contentious. One such project on the city’s east side, now known as Jefferson Village, gave rise to years of lawsuits. But it has proved so successful that the city expects to recoup its $38 million investment in 12 years, said Robbin G. Millard, a project manager for the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, the nonprofit organization that helped create Jefferson Village. Though 160 homes were taken, most owners were able to reach a settlement with the city, he said.

In 2004, the Michigan Supreme Court ruled that eminent domain could no longer be used for private projects to create jobs and generate tax revenue. That decision is now enshrined in a constitutional amendment approved last week by Michigan voters. If condemnation is used to eliminate blight, each individual property must now be shown to be blighted “by clear and convincing evidence,” Mr. Mogk said. This requirement is likely to discourage badly needed development, he said.

Mr. Millard said that while some aspects of the amendment need to be clarified, that does not appear to pose insurmountable barriers. Officials will be able to show that the buildings they seek to condemn are blighted. “We think we can still do eminent domain in this city,” he said.
458 2006-11-15 Frequently Rented, but Rarely Used by the Owner

HOMEOWNER: Visits a beach house for just a single prime week in August, while the rest of the summer and fall the house sees plenty of foot traffic from renters.

TAX IMPLICATIONS : Since the property is rented out for 15 days or more, that rental income will have to be reported. But these homeowners are now qualified to deduct expenses associated with maintaining the house and marketing it to renters. Everything from utilities, cable television, commissions paid to a property manager and insurance may be deducted. The cost of basic home repairs, like fixing a broken window, may be deducted, and larger home improvements, anything that “extends the life of the house,” said Greg Rosica, a partner at Ernst & Young, may also be depreciated over several years.

The I.R.S. sets the usage bar at 14 days or 10 percent of the number of days a property was leased out at fair market value as the maximum amount of time at which a property owner may take a loss. Say that $25,000 in annual rental income meant $30,000 in home maintenance, improvements and other expenses, a homeowner may take a $5,000 loss on that property.

But for homeowners making more than $150,000, “They are not going to be able to write it off because they make too much money,” said Dave Bergman, a certified financial planner in Marina del Rey, Calif. Instead the loss goes into what the I.R.S. dictates as a “suspended loss,” Mr. Bergman said. However, once the rental property starts turning a profit, a homeownermay take advantage of the losses incurred years ago. “It’s a deferred tax benefit,” he said.

If a homeowner makes a profit on the property with its sale, but has been depreciating the house, that homeowner should expect a 25 percent tax bill, regardless of whether they have been taking a loss on the property or not. It is the I.R.S.’s way of saying, Mr. Bergman said, “this was your business renting out real estate, you were depreciating the business because of abuse and wear and tear on the property and now you have made a profit on the sale, so we are going to tax you at a higher rate.”

Frequently Rented and Used by the Owner

HOMEOWNER: Rents out a mountain cabin for three months of the year but uses it the entire month of November.

TAX IMPLICATIONS: The property owner will have to report the rental income and may deduct the expenses associated with operating the house as a rental, but because it was used for more than 14 days, the I.R.S. does not allow the property owner to write off more than the value of the annual rental income. In short, that homeowner cannot take a loss on the property.

But not all of the days a property owner spends at the house have to count toward personal use.

“If you are there for a week and for six of those days you are going to fix up the property, then those days don’t count as personal use,” Mr. Rosica said.

Not only can those days spent working on the house and meeting with local property managers not count as personal use, but travel expenses to the property, from filling up the gas tank to airline tickets, can qualify as deductible expenses. “The trip to China to buy Oriental rugs to furnish the house might get called in to question,” said Mark Luscombe, a principle analyst at CCH, a tax information firm.

The best advice for property owners is to keep good records. “If you want to qualify it for rental activity, keep a log that lays out how many days you were there so you can say, ‘here is the Home Depot receipt for the hot water heater and here is a list that lays out what I did each day in terms of repairs,’ ” Mr. Bergman said. “Keep anything that can help to substantiate your trip there.”
459 2006-11-15 A recipe for Honey Apple Pie with Thyme....
460 2006-11-15 The Mets are investing $12 million through 2008 in a pitcher many believe to be 41 years old. But for them, 40 is the new 30. With Tom Glavine still expected to be re-signed, the Mets locked up Orlando Hernández on Tuesday in a deal teetering bet...
461 2006-11-15 FORD'S WAY FORWARD --  The Ford Motor Company expects to lose about $1 billion in each of the next two years before earning a profit of several hundred million dollars in 2009, the company's chief financial officer, Don R. Leclair, said. Ford said...
462 2006-11-15 The F.B.I. said yesterday it had no updates on the theft of a painting by Goya that was being trucked to an exhibition opening on Friday at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. On Monday, the authorities said little about the theft of ''Children with...
463 2006-11-16 Senator John McCain chooses two conservative audiences to give speeches that are being watched as harbingers of his venture into the 2008 presidential campaign....
464 2006-11-16 The Blue Dog Democrats back Californian Jane Harman to head the House Intelligence committee....
465 2006-11-16 After inspiring thousands to speak ersatz Kazakh - over and over again - and driving his government to defend itself in a four-page newspaper ad, intrepid faux-reporter Borat Sagdiyev may have spread his influence to the economics of Hollywood. Th...
466 2006-11-16 Blog reaction to the Spitzer transition team....
467 2006-11-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
468 2006-11-16 By ousting KB Home's chief executive, Bruce Karatz, over inflated stock option awards, the Los Angeles company's board instantly made the executive a high-profile potential target for federal prosecutors, legal experts told The Los Angeles Times. ...
469 2006-11-16 The music label EMI has given warning that it may refuse to strike a licensing deal with YouTube because it was not yet convinced that the video-sharing Website could respect its artists' copyrights. Go to Article from The Times of London »...
470 2006-11-16 The European Commission has threatened Microsoft with daily fines of 3 million euros ($5.7 million) if it does not provide certain information that would allow rival software developers to make their programs work smoothly with Windows. Go to Arti...
471 2006-11-16 Auditors gave the financial statements of the Securities and Exchange Commission a clean bill of health, a sign that the market watchdog has taken steps to fix problems that prompted a lawmaker last year to chide the agency for what he called "hyp...
472 2006-11-16 A South Korean court issued warrants to detain two senior executives of the private equity fund Lone Star Funds on Thursday, the latest twist in a nine-month investigation that is likely to further delay one of the country's biggest takeovers. The...
473 2006-11-16 Embrex shares closed with a 40 percent gain Wednesday after Pfizer's animal health division agreed to buy the agricultural biotechnology company for $155 million. Go to Article from MarketWatch »...
474 2006-11-16 News Corporation's chairman, Rupert Murdoch, and Liberty Media's chairman, John Malone, are close to resolving a personal dispute that will resonate well beyond the spheres of the two billionaire media moguls. Mr. Murdoch said Wednesday that News ...
475 2006-11-16 New shows in New York include the "Radio City Christmas Spectacular" and "Home Front."...
476 2006-11-16 Adkins, a 29-year-old right-hander, went 2-1 with a 3.98 earned run average in 55 games for San Diego.

Ring, a situational left-handed reliever, figured to have more value than Bell, although Padres General Manager Kevin Towers said that he had coveted the hard-throwing Bell for a while.

Unlike last year, when Billy Wagner, B. J. Ryan and Trevor Hoffman headlined a stellar class of free-agent relievers, teams looking to add bullpen help are moving quickly to bypass a soft group of free agents this year through the trade route. Bell went 0-0 with a 5.11 E.R.A. for the Mets last season, and Ring went 0-0 with a 2.13 E.R.A. in 11 games.

BLUE JAYS AND THOMAS CLOSE Toronto was close to agreeing on a contract with the free-agent designated hitter Frank Thomas on Wednesday night, according to a person familiar with the negotiations. The person was granted anonymity because of the tenuous nature of the talks. The Oakland Athletics and the Texas Rangers were also said to still be pursuing Thomas, 38, who resurrected his career with Oakland last season. He hit 39 home runs and drove in 114 runs to help lead the A’s to the American League West title. He played in 34 games for the White Sox in 2005 and 74 games in 2004 because of injuries.

ROSTER CHANGES APPROVED Major League Baseball will put into effect a change next postseason that the Mets surely wished would have been in place this season. If the first game of a playoff series is rained out, the teams will be permitted to change their rosters.

After Game 1 of the National League Championship Series was postponed, the Mets inquired whether they could replace a position player with a starting pitcher to prevent them from starting someone on short rest. The request was denied.

DEVIL RAYS’ BID ACCEPTED The Tampa Bay Devil Rays could not financially compete in the bidding process for Daisuke Matsuzaka, but Wednesday they won the rights to negotiate with another talented Japanese player, third baseman Akinori Iwamura. They bid $4.5 million, beating out Cleveland, San Diego and Boston. The 27-year-old Iwamura batted .300 and hit 188 home runs in eight seasons for the Yakult Swallows and was the starting third baseman for the Japanese team that won the World Baseball Classic. Andrew Friedman, the Devil Rays’ executive vice president of baseball operations, said the team was attracted by Iwamura’s ability to play multiple positions.

“This is a guy who can play third, second, the outfield and first,” Friedman said. “With that flexibility, it allows us to make other moves.”

INSTANT REPLAY STILL ON HOLD The use of instant replay to clarify foul ball and home run calls was discussed Wednesday by the general mangers, but it will not be used during the 2007 season, the senior vice president of baseball operations, Joe Garagiola Jr., said. “The group concluded that it continues to be an issue that needs to be talked about, and that was pretty much where it was left,” Garagiola said.

IMPROVED PERFORMANCE Statistics presented by the vice president of umpiring, Mike Port, to the general managers Wednesday showed improvements in almost all the categories the leagues use to evaluate and monitor umpires and players. Umpires’ strike zones, which are charted by QuesTek pitch systems in 11 of the major league’s 30 stadiums, were 94.91 percent accurate this season, up from 94.20 percent in 2005. Umpires missed about seven and a half pitches a game. For the first time in five years, no games were played under protest. The average game was two minutes longer (2 hours 48 minutes) than last season, but the average seconds per pitch, a number that evaluates the pace of the game, remained the same at 26.6.

DODGERS LEAVING DODGERTOWN The Dodgers will leave their longtime spring training facility — Dodgertown — in Vero Beach, Fla., to join the Chicago White Sox in a two-team facility in Arizona, the city of Glendale announced yesterday. The new Cactus League camp will be part of a joint venture between the cities of Glendale and Phoenix. A timetable was not given for completion of the project, and Glendale still had to submit a proposal for funding.

Frank McCourt, the Dodgers’ owner, cited a desire to bring the spring facility closer to the team’s fan base in the West. This was the team’s 59th spring at Dodgertown. The White Sox will leave their spring facility in Tucson.
477 2006-11-16 October was the first month since February when core rate, which the Fed follows closely, has not risen at least 0.2 percent.

Stuart Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, said that Fed policy makers “could hardly have scripted a more benign inflation report.” Falling energy costs have been a major factor for the last two months, reversing the effects of the spike in oil prices over the summer. The pump price for gasoline fell 11.1 percent in October. Energy prices in general fell 7 percent, the report found, accounting for much of the 0.5 percent overall decline in consumer prices.

The report showed a dichotomy in prices for goods and services. Cheaper cars, computers, clothing and airline fares all helped push the core rate down in October. But rises in rents and medical costs kept the core index from posting a decline for the month.

Although inflation moderated last month, on a longer time scale it remains at levels that the Fed considers uncomfortable. Compared with the same month a year earlier, the core price index was 2.7 percent higher in October. That is less than the 2.9 percent recorded in September, but the Fed considers anything over 2 percent to be too high. The bank’s policymakers are not likely to begin lowering interest rates until they can be sure that the moderation seen in the last two months is a sustained pattern.

As Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics, said today, “One soft core is not a trend.”

Minutes from last month’s meeting of the Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee show that central bankers were concerned that inflation had been “undesirably high,” and wondered whether recent signs of easing might simply be a statistical blip. The minutes reveal that most of the policy makers expected inflation to moderate, “but they were quite uncertain as to the likely pace and extent of that moderation.”

Michael Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, echoed those sentiments in a speech today, saying that while inflation has retreated somewhat, it remains the “dominant concern” for the Fed.

Economists said that until the Fed can be sure prices have indeed stabilized — and until they are convinced that economic growth will remain slow for some time — they have little reason to consider lowering interest rates.

“They’re not going to be completely won over until they see a more extended moderation in inflation,” said Paul Ashworth, senior economist with Capital Economics, an economic research firm based in London. “And certainly not until it becomes apparent that growth is going to continue on a lower course.”

Two additional reports released by the government today showed moderate growth in manufacturing. Industrial production grew 0.2 percent in October, on par with the average for the last six months, as utilities and electronics manufacturers boosted output. A separate survey of manufacturing in the Philadelphia area found the first expansion there in three months.
478 2006-11-16 A hypnotically abstract canvas inspired by the land and sea near Willem de Kooning’s Long Island home became the most expensive postwar painting ever sold at auction and set a record for the artist when it fetched $27.1 million last night at Christie’s.

The painting, “Untitled XXV” (1977), was one of 19 artist records set in a sale that itself was a record for auctions of postwar and contemporary art. The evening totaled $239.7 million, above its $219.3 million high estimate. Of the 81 lots, only 9 failed to sell.

The buoyant atmosphere, especially after Christie’s record-breaking sale of Impressionist and modern art a week earlier that totaled nearly a half-billion dollars, stood in stark contrast to Sotheby’s sale on Tuesday night, which brought $125.1 million.

Christie’s had captured the best material this season, and the art world knew it. In the overflowing salesroom were dealers and collectors from all over the world, as well as personalities like the whimsical Japanese artist Takashi Murakami and the fashion designer Marc Jacobs.

Throughout the evening, the best works topped even the most ambitious expectations set by Christie’s. Christie’s had estimated the de Kooning would bring around $15 million. Nicholas Maclean, a Manhattan dealer, bought it; the sellers were George Ross, a financier from Bryn Mawr, Pa., and his wife, Lynn.
479 2006-11-16 “It’s a good ploy in an election year,” said the Assembly minority leader, Alex DeCroce of Morris County.

Gov. Jon S. Corzine —who has had little to say on the subject since July, when he implored a joint session of the Legislature to tame the state’s rising property tax rate — declined to comment on Wednesday. Rather his office has said he will respond to the proposals in a speech Thursday before the annual meeting of the New Jersey League of Municipalities in Atlantic City.

Aides to Mr. Corzine said that while he embraced some aspects of the Legislature’s plans — like the proposals to retool school financing — he was troubled by the Legislature’s lack of action on such issues as the appointment of a government comptroller. Mr. Corzine has long said that an independent auditor could help the state avert its chronic budget shortfalls.

Likewise, many Legislators expressed dismay at a proposal by the Corzine administration to convert Interstates 78, 80 and 95 as well as the Pulaski Skyway and a portion of Route 440 in Middlesex County into toll roads.

The plan, first reported by The Star-Ledger, dovetails with a study by the administration of whether to sell or lease toll roads like the New Jersey Turnpike, the Garden State Parkway and the Atlantic City Expressway as well as selling air rights over other state properties.

The state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow, said in an interview Wednesday that a study of any plan to convert free roads to toll roads would take at least six months to complete.

The Legislature hopes to act quickly on the property tax proposals. Lawmakers said they hoped to begin drafting legislation based on the recommendations in the next few weeks and vote on them by the end of the year.

One closely watched aspect of the proposals was the plan to provide a 20 percent credit to most of the state’s homeowners. In New Jersey, where the average annual property tax bill is about $6,000 — the highest of any state and more than twice the national average — that would mean a savings of about $1,200.

The state would pay for the credit by abolishing current tax rebate programs, which cost about $1.1 billion, and pooling that money with more than $600 million in revenue from half a percentage point of the state’s sales tax.

State Senator Leonard Lance, the Republican minority leader and one of the Legislature’s leading authorities on finances, however, said he was “gravely concerned” about the long-term viability of the plan since lawmakers have not said how they will pay for it beyond the next two years.

“There is no indication of how the property tax credit will be sustainable over time,” Mr. Lance said.

Mr. Roberts, responding to the suggestion by some local officials that the credit plan was a gimmick, said, “Call it what you want, but it’s going to put money in people’s pockets.”

Under the current system, households with more than $200,000 in annual income do not receive property tax rebates, and it was unclear whether that would change under the new proposal.

As for the state’s public schools, which receive slightly more than half of the money raised by property taxes, the Legislature recommended an end to the practice of giving additional money to the state’s neediest school districts and instead assigning that money to individual students based on factors like family income, special education needs and proficiency in English. That would mean an end to what are known as Abbott districts from a long-running school-financing lawsuit, Abbott v. Burke. The 31 districts have received extra money because they are the state’s poorest.

The proposals were outlined in reports by the four six-member committees that studied school financing, public employee benefits, consolidation of government and school districts and possible constitutional changes.

Among the ideas proposed Wednesday were raising the early retirement age for state employees to 62 from 55 and restricting them to one state pension. The practice of workers holding multiple pensions was one of the most contentious issues raised during public hearings.

Legislators also called for the creation of several committees — similar to the groups that studied the closing of military bases — to study how the state’s 566 municipalities could consolidate operations. The proposals could be taken up next month.
480 2006-11-16 “General Shinseki was right that a greater international force contribution, U.S. force contribution and Iraqi force contribution should have been available immediately after major combat operations,” General Abizaid said. “I think you can look back and say that more American troops would have been advisable in the early stages of May, June, July.”

The testimony, given to the Senate and House Armed Services Committees, was the first by the American commander since August, and it followed several months of setbacks in Iraq that helped to fuel the Democratic victories in last week’s election. Skepticism among lawmakers from both parties was palpable, and the concerns of the lawmakers were reinforced by intelligence officials who testified later in the day and who painted a more pessimistic portrait of the violence in Iraq than General Abizaid did.

Among the Iraq policy reviews now under way is an effort by the Iraq Study Group, led by James A. Baker III and Lee H. Hamilton, and a separate administration study ordered by President Bush.

Under the immediate initiative that General Abizaid described, the number of American military advisers working with Iraqi forces will be increased, with advisers to be assigned even to small Iraqi units with fewer than 200 soldiers.

“We need to put more American capacity into Iraqi units to make them more capable in their ability to confront the sectarian problem,” General Abizaid told the Senate Armed Services Committee. “It is possible that we might have to go up in troop levels in order to increase the number of forces that go into the Iraqi security forces, but I believe that’s only temporary.”

The next steps in Iraq were very much on the mind of lawmakers on Wednesday. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, cited the concerns of Marine Corps officers in Anbar Province in complaining that General Abizaid had not dispatched enough forces to defeat the insurgency there. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, said the Iraqi government was not taking the steps needed to win the trust of the population and improve security.

In their testimony on Wednesday, Gen. Michael V. Hayden, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Lt. Gen. Michael D. Maples, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said they agreed with General Abizaid that American forces were one of the few elements keeping a lid on violence in Iraq and that withdrawing troops would only increase sectarian violence.

But General Maples said that the violence continued to increase in “scope, complexity and lethality” and that it was “creating an atmosphere of fear and hardening sectarianism, which is empowering militias and vigilante groups.”

In all of Iraq, attacks against allied troops last month averaged 180 per day, up from 170 per day in September and 70 per day in January, General Maples said in written testimony. Daily attacks on Iraqi civilians averaged roughly 40 per day last month, four times higher than the average in January. General Maples also noted that recent operations in Baghdad had achieved only a moderate success, because after American officials had turned neighborhoods over to the Iraqis, “attacks returned to and even surpassed preoperational levels.”

Reinforcing this view, General Hayden said the C.I.A. station in Baghdad assessed that Iraq was deteriorating to a chaotic state, with the political center disintegrating and rival factions increasingly warring with each other. “Their view of the battlefield is that it is descending into smaller and smaller groups fighting over smaller and smaller issues over smaller and smaller pieces of territory,” he said.

The two intelligence officials said Wednesday that there were only an estimated 1,300 foreign fighters in the country and that the number of Sunni Arab insurgents actively planning and carrying out attacks on American forces was probably more than 10,000.

Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, asked General Abizaid how much time the United States had to bring down the violence in Baghdad before events there were beyond the control of the Iraqi government. General Abizaid said the answer was four to six months.

Securing Baghdad, the general said, was the main effort. But there are other difficult missions ahead, he said. One is supporting an Iraqi-led effort to disarm the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia nominally loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr.

Another is securing Anbar Province, the seat of the Sunni Arab insurgency. General Abizaid said that to try to hold the line there, he had decided to dispatch a 2,200-strong Marine Expeditionary Unit. “Al Anbar Province is not under control,” General Abizaid said.

Many experts have advocated talking directly to Iran and Syria to help stabilize Iraq, an approach the Iraq Study Group is expected to endorse. General Hayden said that Iran’s ambitions inside Iraq seemed to be expanding and that Iran had been conducting a foreign policy of “dangerous triumphalism.”

David M. Satterfield, the State Department’s coordinator for Iraq, told the Senate committee that the United States was prepared “in principle” to discuss the situation in Iraq with Iran, but the timing was uncertain.

“We are prepared in principle to discuss Iranian activities in Iraq,” Mr. Satterfield said. “The timing of such a direct dialogue is one that we still have under review.”
481 2006-11-16 Nike, which is paying the basketball star LeBron James $90 million to wear its sneakers, is far too shrewd a company not to see a promotional opportunity in the fact that Mr. James’s team, the Cleveland Cavaliers, was in New York on Monday night to play the Knicks.

Never mind that the professional basketball season, which lasts nearly eight months if one counts the playoffs, was less than two weeks old. And never mind that the Knicks are once again likely to contend for the worst record in the league. Never mind, either, that the Cavaliers play the Knicks three or four times a year.

In the world of sneaker geeks — a population known, perhaps, for owning more sneakers than it wears — the Sunday before the game, which the Cavaliers won, will be remembered for the “pop-up retail space” that Nike opened in SoHo, and then shut down last night.

The specific function of the pop-up store, at 476 Broome Street, was to sell the only 250 existing pairs of Nike’s new basketball shoe, the Zoom LeBron IV NYC. It is the latest of the more than 100 LeBron editions that Nike has manufactured in the last four years for Mr. James to endorse. (Never mind that Mr. James, 21, has taken his team to the playoffs only once, or that he has no connection to New York.)

The shoes, at $250 a pair, nearly sold out. “The only ones we’ve got left are some Size 16s — that’s LeBron’s size,” a young salesclerk who identified himself by one name, Pro, said yesterday. The Zoom LeBron IV NYC is a lot like the Zoom LeBron IV, a high-tech, futuristic-looking sneaker that Nike has introduced for the 2006-7 basketball season, except that the lower part of the shoe is decorated with graffiti-like markings.
482 2006-11-16 The study tested anemia in kidney patients who did not yet need dialysis, a mechanical blood-filtering technique used to keep alive patients whose kidneys have almost entirely failed. But its findings should apply to patients on dialysis as well, Dr. Singh said.

The findings reinforce mounting concerns that kidney patients may be receiving too much epoetin, in part because dialysis clinics make bigger profits for providing larger doses. Studies show that the clinics make little, if any, profit on the actual dialysis services they provide for Medicare patients, who are the vast majority of patients.

The amount of epoetin received by the typical American dialysis patient has nearly tripled since the early 1990s. The average patient now gets epoetin doses similar to those given to the first group in Dr. Singh’s study. Death rates for dialysis patients are higher in the United States than in Europe, where doses are comparable to the second group’s, although doctors say other factors may also explain the difference. About 22 percent of American patients die every year, compared with about 15 percent in Europe.

Dr. Singh said his study, with a second trial with similar results also to be published today in The New England Journal, did not necessarily prove that epoetin use was harmful.

But the studies show that the anemia of many patients is being overcorrected and that doctors should aim for lower levels of red blood cells in their patients, he said. The simplest way to do that would be to give patients less epoetin.

Susan Cruzan, a spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, said the agency was aware of the study results and would evaluate the data. She noted that Epogen’s label already offered advice for doctors. The F.D.A., she said, will release a more complete advisory today.

Amgen, which sells epoetin under the brand name Epogen and darbepoetin under the name Aranesp, said its drugs had been a boon for people with anemia and are properly used in the vast majority of patients. In fact, anemia may be undertreated in cancer and kidney patients, scientists at Amgen argue.

Amgen said it was committed to the safety of its drugs and was conducting a clinical trial to study Aranesp in 4,000 kidney patients. But some scientists say that trial will not settle the most crucial issue about epoetin and darbepoetin: whether the drugs are routinely overused.

In the first nine months of 2006, Amgen sold $4.9 billion of Aranesp and Epogen, accounting for almost half its revenue. Sales of the two drugs rose almost 15 percent compared with the period in 2005.

Johnson & Johnson, which sells epoetin under the brand names Procrit in the United States and Eprex everywhere else, reported sales of $2.4 billion in the first nine months of 2006, down slightly from 2005.

Epoetin, a naturally occurring protein produced mainly in the kidneys, stimulates bone marrow cells to produce hemoglobin, the main component of red blood cells. Darbepoetin, which was introduced in 2001, is a version of epoetin that has been slightly modified so that it does not need to be given as frequently. Both drugs are given via injection.

Since epoetin was approved in 1989, it has become a standard treatment for more than 90 percent of dialysis patients in the United States, and it is increasingly used for patients with earlier-stage kidney disease. The drug is also widely used for cancer patients, who often suffer from anemia as a side effect of chemotherapy. Some cancers can also cause anemia on their own.

Many kidney and cancer doctors and patients say epoetin has greatly improved the lives of people receiving dialysis or chemotherapy. Severe anemia can be debilitating, leaving patients unable to work, walk for over a few minutes or even think clearly, as well as increasing their risk of infection and heart disease.

Before epoetin, blood transfusions were the only effective treatment for anemia. But transfusions carry a risk of infection and can eventually prevent patients from receiving transplants. For most patients, epoetin appeared a safe alternative.

“The drug in and of itself has really advanced care for patients, so that they’re able to go back to do the things that they previously couldn’t,” said Kris Robinson, the executive director of the American Association of Kidney Patients and a kidney transplant recipient. “It makes a huge difference.”

There are no set doses of epoetin. Instead, it is given with the goal of raising hemoglobin levels to a specific target level. Aiming for a higher average hemoglobin target effectively raises the amount of epoetin that patients receive.

The prescribing label for Epogen, which is approved by the F.D.A., says dialysis patients should have a target hemoglobin level of 10-12 grams per deciliter of blood. In general, healthy adult men have hemoglobin levels of 14 grams or more per deciliter and patients are considered to need treatment if their levels are below 10 grams.

But guidelines devised by the National Kidney Foundation say a target of 11 to 13 grams is appropriate. Amgen sponsored the development of those guidelines, though the National Kidney Foundation said the company had not influenced them.

The difference between the F.D.A. and Kidney Foundation guidelines may seem small. But Dr. Singh’s study compared patients with an average hemoglobin of 12.6 grams with those who had an average of 11.3 grams, and found a 34 percent greater incidence of deaths and heart attacks in those with the higher levels.

In the United States, the average dialysis patient has a hemoglobin level just under 12 grams , according to data from the United States Renal Data System, which monitors kidney patient care. Almost 20 percent of patients have levels above 13 grams.

Davita, the second-largest dialysis provider, is especially aggressive about increasing hemoglobin levels, according to the data system. A paper that will be presented Saturday at the American Society of Nephrology’s annual conference in San Diego found that 37 percent of Davita patients reported hemoglobin levels greater than 14 grams at least once in a nine-month period, an abstract of the paper posted online said.

The paper’s authors did not return calls for comment on it.

Dr. Charles McAllister, Davita’s chief medical officer, said the company did not aim for hemoglobin targets higher than 13 grams per deciliter. But some patients go over that benchmark because hemoglobin levels naturally vary over time, he said.

Despite Dr. Singh’s study and the F.D.A. label on Epogen, Dr. McAllister said he thought patients would benefit from hemoglobin as high as 13 grams per deciliter.

But Daniel Coyne, a kidney doctor and professor of medicine at Washington University in St. Louis, said Dr. Singh’s study adds to a growing body of evidence that American patients receive too much epoetin and that hemoglobin targets are too high.

“There’s enough study evidence to say that a higher hemoglobin carries an increased risk of harm,” Dr. Coyne said. “Above 12 carries increasing risk that is unacceptable given the occasional improvements of quality of life.”
483 2006-11-16 Before the first meeting when the fee clock begins ticking, Steven Gersz, a lawyer in Rochester, says he encourages companies both large and small to complete a formal business plan. “It’s your road map,” he said. “It forces you to think about how you will handle things before you get into business. It forces you to look at the product or service you’re offering, how will you price it or target to your customer and how will you handle your competition.”

It’s not the “length or prettiness of the plan that matters,” he added.

“You need to do it to make sure you’ve thought through all the big-bullet issues: marketing, competition and cash-flow needs,” said Mr. Gersz, a partner at Underberg & Kessler who has advised Mr. Lax.

After creating the plan — which will not only aid lawyers but banks or other investors as well, the founders should consider the structure of the business — corporation or partnership. The structure chosen may depend on whether the entrepreneur expects to have outside investors in addition to friends and family members, and whether the client needs to limit liability while having the tax benefits of the gains and losses from the business, Mr. Gersz said.

Additionally, an entrepreneur should also consider whether there are key contracts needed to conduct business. Those, Mr. Walsh says, can range from an agreement with a co-owner, a sales representative or an outsider, like a vendor or important client.

The business owner also should think about any intellectual property assets that will be used by the new company. At a minimum, product or company names should be researched online first, even though a lawyer should ultimately perform a trademark search. The owner must also think about how to protect other assets — designs or processes, for example — when starting up. While it may be simpler to contribute the assets to the business, Mr. Walsh said that licensing them to the business could be a better option, because “you can maintain some control over use of the invention.”

Two other related issues that most entrepreneurs overlook are exit strategies and succession. Lawrence A. Goldman, a partner at Gibbons, Del Deo, Dolan, Griffinger & Vecchione in Newark who runs the A.B.A.’s committee on small business, “Preparing for an exit, in event of disability or death or dispute between the parties is a big issue. For the same reason that people put off doing their wills because they don’t want to deal with issue of custody of the children, those going into business often don’t deal with exit or disputes mechanisms because they don’t want to have confront difficult decisions that may need to be made.”

But, he says, it’s important to have a mechanism for “valuing the business, for determining how the value would be paid.” Mulling over the options before meeting with a lawyer can save time, which typically translates into costs.

For Mr. Lax, the devil was in clauses: “The issue that could have been a deal-breaker on my lease and with my loan had to do with ‘subordination,’ ” he wrote in an e-mail exchange.

“In the event of bankruptcy,” he continued, “pretty much everyone wanted to have the first right to use my equipment and other assets as collateral. The franchisor, bank and landlord all felt that they should have the first claim to assets, and obviously, you can’t use the same assets to secure every business relationship.

“I can guarantee you that I did not fully understand the wording of these clauses and without a qualified attorney to negotiate and modify the terms put forth by each entity, I would have certainly signed each agreement and would have pledged the same collateral to three different companies. This could potentially have voided my franchise agreement, loan terms and lease.”

No matter how efficient, legal services will, inevitably, seem expensive to those starting out in business. It is, Mr. Lax said, “extremely difficult when buying tangible items to get a business started to put a huge amount into services you can’t touch, taste or smell. Counsel is expensive and no one says ‘I can’t wait to pay my attorney’s bills.’ But it’s a mistake to put your life into a business without counsel.”
484 2006-11-16 PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 15 (AP) — Microsoft and MetroFi say they will work together to build a free wireless Internet service for Portland, Oregon’s largest city.

MetroFi announced late Tuesday that it would introduce the Wi-Fi service in Pioneer Courthouse Square, a popular gathering place in downtown Portland, by the end of the year and expand it to the rest of the city within two years.

Microsoft will provide locally focused content and advertising through its new search advertising system, adCenter. The system, intended to compete with Google, allows advertisers to single out users based on browsing habits and factors like their sex, age and location.

MetroFi operates Wi-Fi networks in several Silicon Valley cities and has agreements with 13 cities across the United States to develop municipal networks.

MetroFi, based in Mountain View, Calif., will pay to create and maintain the system. The company said the service would be maintained through advertising revenue.
485 2006-11-16 DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 15 (AP) — Executives at the Ford Motor Company said on Wednesday that delivery of its new Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossover vehicles would be delayed as the company ironed out problems at its plant in Oakville, Ontario.

The company had initially said it would deliver the car-based crossover vehicles to dealerships in November, but that now has been delayed until sometime in December.

Several thousand of the vehicles have been built and all meet Ford’s quality standards, but Ford wants to make sure all of its manufacturing processes are working correctly before delivery, Joseph R. Hinrichs, the vice president for North American manufacturing, said.

“We want to make sure that our process is equally ready to deliver, on a consistent basis, the quality and the timeliness of the deliveries that our dealers and our customers expect,” Mr. Hinrichs said.

Dealers are counting on the Edge to drive more customers into the showrooms.

“It’s going to be a great vehicle for us, and we can’t wait until it gets out,” Kent Martin, sales manager at Metro Ford in Independence, Mo., said in an interview.

Mr. Martin had not heard about the delay, but, considering how important the vehicle is to Ford, he said: “I’d rather they take their time so when it comes out everything’s taken care of and it’s ready to roll. It’s better that they get the bugs out before the consumer has to deal with it.”
486 2006-11-16 Merck won a sixth verdict in a case over its Vioxx painkiller yesterday when a federal jury ruled against a Utah man who contended that the drug caused his heart attack.

Jurors in New Orleans deliberated for two hours before rejecting claims by Charles Mason, 64, who blamed Vioxx for his heart attack in 2003. He also claimed that Merck had failed to warn of the drug’s risks.

Merck countered that it was Mr. Mason’s clogged arteries, not his 10 months of Vioxx use, that caused the heart attack.

The victory helps Merck in its fight against more than 23,000 lawsuits over Vioxx, which the company withdrew in 2004 when a study showed it raised the risk of heart attacks. Merck has won six cases and lost four. A seventh company victory was overturned.

“The more they are able to win individual cases in the early days, the more they can be in a position to essentially bludgeon individual plaintiff lawyers,” said David A. Logan, dean of the Roger Williams University School of Law in Rhode Island.

Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., has set aside $1.6 billion to fight the lawsuits.

Philip S. Beck, a lawyer for Merck, said the decision in the Mason case was a “vindication of the approach that the company has taken in trying each one of these cases individually.”
487 2006-11-16 BRUSSELS, Nov. 15 — The European Commission has threatened Microsoft with daily fines of 3 million euros ($5.7 million) if it does not provide certain information that would allow rival software developers to make their programs work smoothly with Windows.

The order to reveal the documentation, released in a statement Wednesday by the commission, was part of a March 2004 antitrust ruling. It was the latest in a string of missed deadlines over the last two years imposed in an effort to get Microsoft to license technical information on its Windows operating system to rivals.

In July, the commission fined Microsoft 280.5 million euros ($357 million) for failing to submit the information.

“The commission expects the remaining omissions and deficiencies in the technical documentation to be remedied by 23rd November so that by the end of November the entire set of technical documentation will be available for potential licensees to review,” the commission said.

Neelie Kroes, the European competition commissioner, expressed her frustrations in an interview in The Guardian on Wednesday. “I am not impressed if someone says 90 percent of the information is already there when we need 100 percent ” she said in the article. “It’s a jigsaw and some parts are missing. In my opinion, this information should have been here a couple of months ago.”
488 2006-11-16 Like many recent digital single-lens-reflex cameras, the new Nikon D40 is considerably smaller than its corporate siblings. At $600 with a zoom lens, it is also substantially less expensive. In an attempt to distinguish itself from competitors, however, the 6.1-megapixel D40 takes a novel approach to giving photographers advice on how to use it.

Users of the D40, which Nikon is unveiling today and will start selling next month, can preview the effects of different settings by viewing sample photos on the camera’s screen. For those who are unsure if a higher f-stop number means that more or less light is reaching the camera, an animation shows the size of the lens opening. (A bigger number means a smaller opening.)

In order to shrink the camera, Nikon has eliminated the smaller black-and-white display that its other digital S.L.R.’s use to show camera settings. A small motor was also eliminated, so the camera does not autofocus when used with lenses that require the motor to turn their focusing rings.

The D40 does work with Nikon’s AF-S lenses that have built-in focusing motors and with the electronic system in some lenses for preventing blurry photos caused by unsteady hands. IAN AUSTEN
489 2006-11-16 Paul McCartney is known, to grossly understate his reputation, for songs of graceful melodic equilibrium, a plaintive quietness and above all a civility uncommon to either the rough edges of rock ’n’ roll or the pervasive cruelties of postwar classical music.

From time to time he has tried to transfer these talents to bigger, heavier old-school formats, the latest example being “Ecce Cor Meum,” a kind of oratorio for mixed choirs, soprano and orchestra written in memory of his first wife, Linda, and played at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday night. From a center box, surrounded by fellow celebrities, the composer acknowledged the hoots and cries of a camera-crazy, banner-waving full house that seemed almost reluctant to turn its attention to the stage.

Someone who has done as much for music as Mr. McCartney deserves to write any piece of music he wants and have it respectfully listened to. In “Messiah” land, however, he finds himself occupying alien territory. The bigness of the McCartney sensibility lies in its smallness. Increasing the weight it carries does not make it deeper in quality. Rather it sinks both music and message into a kind of viscous sentimentality.

Using a vocabulary of singing strings, pounding timpani, brass flourishes and virtuoso outbursts from the organ, the Paul McCartney we value translates poorly. The native wistfulness becomes portentous, the irony oratorical and overly sweet, the brevity of song form stretched beyond its bounds into tedium.

Mr. McCartney has too much sense, and has had too much success, to aspire to classical forms as did — and I think to his detriment — the great Duke Ellington. The composer of “Ecce Cor Meum” (“Behold My Heart”) should be happy in the knowledge that his popular songs outweigh by virtue of their lightness all the groans and teeth-grindings, for example, of late-20th-century German opera. Meanwhile, if he chooses to take up hobbies like double-fugues or sonata form, I’ll be there to hear them.

“Ecce Cor Meum” is in four movements and one interlude. It featured an ardent, well-equipped soprano in Kate Royal, the competent singing of the Concert Chorale of New York and the American Boychoir, the excellent Orchestra of St. Luke’s and a handful of its principal string players who stepped out of the ranks as the Loma Mar Quartet.

The last provided gentle accompaniments for much of the evening’s first half, which included songs like “My Love” by Ms. Royal and “Calico Skies” sung together with the elegant light tenor of Andrew Staples. Even with Ms. Royal’s operatic delivery there was here a sense of scale that most of the oratorio exceeds.
490 2006-11-16 The only economic lever that Mr. Friedman would allow government to use was the one that controlled the supply of money — a monetarist view that had gone out of favor when he embraced it in the 1950s. He went on to record a signal achievement, predicting the unprecedented combination of rising unemployment and rising inflation that came to be called stagflation. His work earned him the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1976.

Rarely, his colleagues said, did anyone have such impact on both his own profession and on government. Though he never served officially in the halls of power, he was always around them, as an adviser and theorist.

“Among economic scholars, Milton Friedman had no peer,” Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today. “The direct and indirect influences of his thinking on contemporary monetary economics would be difficult to overstate.”

Professor Friedman also fueled the rise of the Chicago School of economics, a conservative group within the department of economics at the University of Chicago. He and his colleagues became a counterforce to their liberal peers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, influencing close to a dozen American winners of the Nobel prize in economics.

It was not only Mr. Friedman’s antistatist and free-market views that held sway over his colleagues. There was also his willingness to create a place where independent thinkers could be encouraged to take unconventional stands as long as they were prepared to do battle to support them.

“Most economics departments are like country clubs,” said James J. Heckman, a Chicago faculty member and Nobel laureate who earned his doctorate at Princeton. “But at Chicago you are only as good as your last paper.”

Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said of Mr. Friedman in an interview on Tuesday. “From a longer-term point of view, it’s his academic achievements which will have lasting import. But I would not dismiss the profound impact he has already had on the American public’s view.”

To Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Friedman came along at an opportune time. The Keynesian consensus among economists, he said — one that had worked well from the 1930s — could not explain the stagflation of the 1970s.

But he also said that Mr. Friedman had made a broader political argument: that you have to have economic freedom to have political freedom.

Mr. Friedman had a gift for communicating complicated ideas in simple and lucid ways, and it served him well as the author or co-author of more than a dozen books, as a columnist for Newsweek from 1966 to 1983 and even as the star of a public television series. He was a bridge between the academic and popular worlds, and his broader impact stemmed in large part from the fact that he was preaching a gospel of capitalism that fit neatly into American self-perceptions. He was pushing on an open door.

As a libertarian, Mr. Friedman advocated legalizing drugs and generally opposed public education and the state’s power to license doctors, automobile drivers and others. He was criticized for those views, but he stood by them, arguing that prohibiting, regulating or licensing human behavior either does not work or creates inefficient bureaucracies.

Mr. Friedman insisted that unimpeded private competition produced better results than government systems. “Try talking French with someone who studied it in public school,” he argued, “then with a Berlitz graduate.”

Once, when accused of going overboard in his antistatism, he said, “In every generation, there’s got to be somebody who goes the whole way, and that’s why I believe as I do.”

In the long period of prosperity after World War II, when Keynesian economics was riding high in the West, Mr. Friedman alone warned of trouble ahead, asserting that policies based on Keynesian theory were part of the problem.

Even as he was being dismissed as an economic “flat-earther,” he predicted in the 1960s that the end of the boom was at hand. Expect unemployment to grow, he said, and inflation to rise, at the same time. The prediction was borne out in the 1970s. It was Paul Samuelson who labeled the phenomenon stagflation.

Mr. Friedman’s analysis and prediction were regarded as a stunning intellectual accomplishment and contributed to his earning the Nobel prize for his monetary theories. He was also cited for his analyses of consumer savings and of the causes of the Great Depression: he blamed the Federal Reserve, accusing it of bad monetary policy and saying it had bungled early chances for recovery. His prestige and that of the Chicago school soared, and his analysis of the Depression changed the way that the Fed thought about monetary policy.

Government leaders like President Ronald Reagan and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain were heavily influenced by his views. So was the quietly building opposition to communism within the East bloc, including from intellectuals like Vaclav Klaus, who later became prime minister of the Czech Republic.

As the end of the century approached, Professor Friedman said events had made his views seem only more valid than when he had first formed them. One event was the fall of communism. In an introduction to the 50th-anniversary edition of Friedrich A. Hayek’s seminal book on the totalitarian consequences of collectivist planning, “The Road to Serfdom,” Professor Friedman wrote that it was now clear that “progress could be achieved only in an order in which government activity is limited primarily to establishing the framework with which individuals are free to pursue their own objectives.”

“The free market is the only mechanism that has ever been discovered for achieving participatory democracy,” he said.

Professor Friedman was acknowledged to be a brilliant statistician and logician. To his critics, however, he sometimes pushed his data too far. To them, the debate over the advantages or disadvantages of an unregulated free market was far from over.

Milton Friedman was born in Brooklyn on July 31, 1912, the last of four children and only son of Jeno S. Friedman and Sarah Landau Friedman. His parents worked briefly in New York sweatshops, then moved their family to Rahway, N.J., where they opened a clothing store.

Mr. Friedman’s father died in his son’s senior year at Rahway High School. Young Milton later waited on tables and clerked in stores to supplement a scholarship he had earned at Rutgers University. He entered Rutgers in 1929, the year the stock market crashed and the Depression began.

Mr. Friedman attributed his success to “accidents”: the immigration of his teen-age parents from Czechoslovakia, enabling him to be an American and not a citizen of a Soviet-bloc state; the skill of a high-school geometry teacher who showed him a connection between Keats’s “Ode to a Grecian Urn” and the Pythagorean theorem, allowing him to see the mathematical beauty; the receipt of a scholarship that enabled him to attend Rutgers and there have Arthur F. Burns and Homer Jones as teachers.

He said Mr. Burns, who later became chairman of the Federal Reserve, instilled in him a passion for scientific integrity and accuracy in economics; Mr. Jones, who was teaching at Rutgers while pursuing a doctorate at the University of Chicago, interested him in monetary policy and a graduate school career at Chicago.

In his first economic-theory class at Chicago, he was the beneficiary of another accident — the fact that his last name began with an “F.” The class was seated alphabetically, and he was placed next to Rose Director, a master’s degree candidate from Portland, Ore. That seating arrangement shaped his whole life, he said. He married Ms. Director six years later. And she, after becoming an important economist in her own right, helped Mr. Friedman form his ideas and maintain his intellectual rigor.

After he became something of a celebrity, Mr. Friedman said, many people became reluctant to challenge him directly. “They can’t come right out and say something stinks,” he said. “Rose can.”

In 1998, he and his wife published a memoir, “Two Lucky People” (University of Chicago Press), in which they reveled in “having intellectual children throughout the world.”

His wife is among his survivors. They also include a son, David, and a daughter, Janet Martel, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.

That fateful class at the University of Chicago also introduced him to Jacob Viner, regarded as a great theorist and historian of economic thought. Professor Viner convinced Mr. Friedman that economic theory need not be a mere set of disjointed propositions but rather could be developed into a logical and coherent prescription for action.

Mr. Friedman won a fellowship to do his doctoral work at Columbia, where the emphasis was on statistics and empirical evidence. He studied there with Simon Kuznets, another American Nobel laureate. The two turned Mr. Friedman’s thesis into a book, “Income from Independent Professional Practice.” It was the first of more than a dozen books that Mr. Friedman wrote alone or with others.

It was also the first of many “Friedman controversies.” One finding of the book was that the American Medical Association exerted monopolistic pressure on the incomes of doctors; as a result, the authors said, patients were unable to reap the benefits of lower fees from any real price competition among doctors. The A.M.A., after obtaining a galley copy of the book, challenged that conclusion and forced the publisher to delay publication. But the authors did not budge. The book was eventually published, unchanged.

During the first two years of World War II, Mr. Friedman was an economist in the Treasury Department’s division of taxation. “Rose has never forgiven me for the part I played in devising and developing withholding for the income tax,” he said. “There is no doubt that it would not have been possible to collect the amount of taxes imposed during World War II without withholding taxes at the source.

“But it is also true,” he went on, “that the existence of withholding has made it possible for taxes to be higher after the war than they otherwise could have been. So I have a good deal of sympathy for the view that, however necessary withholding may have been for wartime purposes, its existence has had some negative effects in the postwar period.”

After the war, he returned to the University of Chicago, becoming a full professor in 1948 and commencing his campaign against Keynesian economics. Robert M. Solow of M.I.T., a Nobel laureate who often disagreed with Mr. Friedman, called him one of “the greatest debaters of all time.” But his wisecracking style could infuriate opponents like the British economist Joan Robinson, who called him a “paper tiger.”

Mr. Samuelson, also of M.I.T., who was not above wisecracking himself, had a standard line in his economics classes that always brought down the house: “Just because Milton Friedman says it doesn’t mean that it’s necessarily untrue.”

But Professor Samuelson said he never joked in class unless he was serious — that his friend and intellectual opponent was, in fact, often right when at first he sounded wrong.

Mr. Friedman’s opposition to rent control after World War II, for example, incurred the wrath of many colleagues. They took it as an unpatriotic criticism of economic policies that had been successful in helping the nation mobilize for war. Later, Mr. Sameulson said, “probably 98 percent of them would agree that he was right.”

In the early 1950s, Mr. Friedman started flogging a “decomposing horse,” as Mrs. Thatcher’s chief economic adviser, Alan Waters, later put it. The horse that most economists thought long dead was the monetarist theory that the supply of money in circulation and readily accessible in banks was the dominant force — or in Mr. Friedman’s view, the only force — that should be used in shaping the economy.

In the 1963 book “A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960,” which he wrote with Anna Jacobson Schwartz, Mr. Friedman compiled statistics to buttress his theory that recessions, as well as the Great Depression, had been preceded by declines in the money supply. And it was an oversupply, he argued, that caused inflation.

In the late 1960s, Mr. Friedman used his knowledge of empirical evidence and statistics to calculate that Keynesian government programs had the effect of constantly increasing the money supply, a practice that over time was seriously inflationary.

Paul Krugman, a Princeton University economist and New York Times columnist, said Mr. Friedman then managed “one of the decisive intellectual achievements of postwar economics,” predicting the unprecedented combination of rising unemployment and rising inflation that later came to be called stagflation.

In this regard, his Nobel Prize cited his contribution to the now famous concept “the natural rate of unemployment.” Under this thesis, the unemployment rate cannot be driven below a certain level without provoking an acceleration in the inflation rate. Price inflation was linked to wage inflation, and wage inflation depended on the inflationary expectations of employers and workers in their bargaining.

A spiral developed. Wages and prices rose until expectations came into line with reality, usually at the natural rate of unemployment. Once that rate is achieved, any attempt to drive down unemployment through expansionary government policies is inflationary, according to Mr. Friedman’s thesis, which he unveiled in a speech to the American Economic Association in 1968.

For years economists have tried to pinpoint the elusive natural rate, without much success, particularly in recent years.

Mr. Friedman, the iconoclast, was right on the big economic issue of that time — inflation. And his prescription — to have the governors of the Federal Reserve System keep the money supply growing steadily without big fluctuations — figured in the thinking of economic policy makers around the world in the 1980s.

Mr. Friedman also pursued his attack on Keynesianism in a more general way. He warned that a government allowed to regulate the economy could not be trusted to keep its hands off individual liberties.

He had first been exposed to this line of attack through his association with Mr. Hayek, who was predicting in the early 1940s that communism would lead inevitably to totalitarianism and the crushing of individual rights. In an introduction to a 1971 German edition, Professor Friedman called the book “a revelation particularly to the young men and women who had been in the armed forces during the war.”

“Their recent experience had enhanced their appreciation of the value and meaning of individual freedom,” he wrote.

In 1962, Mr. Friedman took on President John F. Kennedy’s popular inaugural exhortation: “Ask not what your country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your country.” In an introduction to his classic book “Capitalism and Freedom,” a collection of his writings and lectures, he said President Kennedy had got it wrong: You should ask neither.

“What your country can do for you,” Mr. Friedman said, implies that the government is the patron, the citizen the ward; and “what you can do for your country” assumes that the government is the master, the citizen the servant. Rather, he said, you should ask, “What I and my compatriots can do through government to help discharge our individual responsibilities, to achieve our several goals and purposes, and above all protect our freedom.”

It was not that Mr. Friedman believed in no government. He is credited with devising the negative income tax, which in a modern variant — the earned income tax credit — increases the incomes of the working poor. He also argued that government should give the poor vouchers to attend the private schools he thought superior to public ones.

In forums he would spar over the role of government with his more liberal adversaries, including John Kenneth Galbraith, who was also a longtime friend (and who died in April 2006). The two would often share a stage, presenting a study in contrasts as much visual as intellectual: Mr. Friedman stood 5 feet 3; Mr. Galbraith, 6 feet 8.

Though he had helped ignite the conservative rebellion after World War II, together with intellectuals like Russell Kirk, William F. Buckley Jr. and Ayn Rand, Mr. Friedman had little or no influence on the administrations of Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon. President Nixon, in fact, once described himself as a Keynesian.

It was frustrating period for Mr. Friedman. He said that during the Nixon years the talk was still of urban crises solvable only by government programs that he was convinced would make things worse, or of environmental problems produced by “rapacious businessmen who were expected to discharge their social responsibility instead of simply operating their enterprises to make the most profit.”

But then, after the 1970s stagflation, with Keynesian tools seemingly broken or outmoded, and with Ronald Reagan headed for the White House, Mr. Friedman’s hour arrived. His power and influence were acknowledged and celebrated in Washington.

With his wife, Rose Director Friedman, in 1978 he brought out a best-selling general-interest book, “Free to Choose,” and went on an 18-month tour, from Hong Kong to Ottumwa, Iowa, preaching that government regulation and interference in the free market was the stifling bane of modern society. The tour became the subject and Mr. Friedman the star of a 10-part PBS series, “Free to Choose,” in 1980.

In 1983, having retired from teaching, he became a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. Five years later he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Medal of Science.

The economic expansion in the 1980s resulted from the Reagan administration’s lowered tax rates and deregulation, Professor Friedman said. But then the tide turned again. The expansion, he argued, was halted when President George H. W. Bush imposed a “reverse-Reaganomics” tax increase.

What was worse, by the mid-1980s, as the finance and banking industries began undergoing upheavals and money began shifting unpredictably, Mr. Friedman’s own monetarist predictions — of what would happen to the economy and inflation as a result of specific increases in the money supply — failed to hold up. Confidence in his monetarism theory waned.

Prof. Robert Solow of M.I.T., a Nobel laureate himself, and other liberal economists continued to raise questions about Mr. Friedman’s theories: Did not President Reagan, and by extension Professor Friedman, they asked, revert to Keynesianism once in power?

“The boom that lasted from 1982 to 1990 was engineered by the Reagan administration in a straightforward Keynesian way by rising spending and lowered taxes, a classic case of an expansionary budget deficit,” Mr. Solow said. “In fairness to Milton, however, it should be said that one of the reasons for his wanting a tax reduction was to force the spending cuts that he presumed would follow.” Professor Samuelson said that “Milton Friedman thought of himself as a man of science but was in fact more full of passion than he knew.”

Mr. Friedman remained the guiding light to American conservatives. It was he, for example, who provided the economic theory behind such “prescriptions for action,” as his one-time professor, Jacob Viner, put it, as the landslide Republican victory in the off-year Congressional elections of 1994.

By then Professor Friedman had grown into a giant of economics abroad as well. He was sharply criticized for his role in providing intellectual guidance on economic matters to the military regime in Chile that engineered a coup in the early 1970s against the democratically elected president, Salvador Allende. But for Mr. Friedman that was just a bump in the road.

In Vietnam, whose constitution was amended in 1986 to guarantee the rights of private property, the writings of Mr. Friedman were circulated at the highest levels of government. “Privatize,” he told Chinese scholars at a meeting in Shanghai’s Fudan University; and he told those in Moscow and elsewhere in Eastern Europe: “Speed the conversion of state-run enterprises to private ownership.” They did.

Mr. Friedman had long since ceased to be called a flat-earther by anyone. “What was really so important about him,” said W. Allen Wallis, a former classmate and later faculty colleague at the University of Chicago, “was his tremendous basic intelligence, his ingenuity, perseverance — his way of getting to the bottom of things, of looking at them in a new way.”
491 2006-11-16 Yet in comparison to the red-blooded Ms. Gugino, everything else in this revival seems so anemic that you don’t understand why Catharine doesn’t just deliver a few well-placed kicks and run for the hills. Mr. Brokaw provides a by-the-book production that adheres religiously to the instructions in Williams’s script.

Dutifully delivered are the mood-cuing music and jungle sounds and the tropical greenhouse, part of Mrs. Venable’s mansion, of a set (designed with no-holds-barred luxuriance by Santo Loquasto). Yet these elements only rarely coalesce into a sense of a world of primal menace.

Ms. Danner too grounds her interpretation of Mrs. Venable in the text. Though the vain Violet refuses to admit it, she evidently suffered a stroke the previous year, ending her cherished role as Sebastian’s annual traveling companion. And much of Ms. Danner’s interpretation appears to be built on the physiology of her character’s illness.

Fractured line readings, in which emphases often fall with strange randomness; stiffened fingers that thwart aspirations to grace; dizzying shortness of breath — Ms. Danner conveys all these symptoms with medical precision.

As Violet flirtatiously presents her case — and her carefully airbrushed portrait of her son — to the impassive Dr. Sugar, a touching sense of the commanding feminine elegance that she has lost lingers like underwriting in a palimpsest. Some of her line readings are indeed exquisite. When Violet mutters wryly to a dying plant in her garden, “Goodbye, Venus fly trap — like so much else,” it’s a disarmingly succinct elegy to a vanished life.

Yet no matter how enfeebled, Violet has to possess a force of will that at the very least matches Catharine’s. Otherwise a work that Williams admitted was more poem than play lacks a theatrical dynamic. As Ms. Danner portrays her, Violet seems so weak that she doesn’t stand a chance in the battle for whose version of the truth will prevail. (When Catharine is delivering the long account of the events leading to Sebastian’s death, Violet appears simply to have nodded off in her wheelchair.)

The other roles are basically filler, from the trunks of stock Williams characters, including Mrs. Venable’s cowering attendant (Karen Walsh) and Catharine’s venal, predatory mother and brother (Wayne Wilcox and Becky Ann Baker). Even Ms. Baker, who brings vivifying detail to every part she plays, can’t disguise the perfunctory shrillness of a character who feels like a leftover from “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.”

Dr. Sugar has never been much more than a cue feeder for the leading ladies, which is all that can be said of Mr. Harold, best known for the American version of “Queer as Folk.” But if he is merely a prop, both Ms. Gugino and Ms. Danner know just how to use him. The most interesting counterpoint between the women is in their erotic responses to, and manipulation of, Dr. Sugar.

Ms. Gugino, who was a standout as the Marilyn Monroe figure in the recent Roundabout revival of “After the Fall,” doesn’t shy away from the vulgarity in Catharine. This sets her performance apart from those of her illustrious predecessors like Ms. Taylor, Natasha Richardson (in a television adaptation) and Victoria Hamilton (who was brilliant in a West End revival two years ago).

She may be a hothouse neurotic (she writes about herself in the third person in her journal), but she’s no fluttery Blanche DuBois, hiding carnal appetites beneath a veil of gentility. This Catharine has been around the block and back, and for all her luminous sensuality, she shows the signs of psychic wear and tear.

You believe her disgust and resignation when she says, “We all use each other, and that’s what we think of as love.” And while Ms. Gugino does well by the overheated poetry of her big concluding monologue, she is never more affecting than when she stumbles into Dr. Sugar and impulsively kisses his mouth.

“Let me, let me,” she murmurs. “It’s been lonely, lonelier than death.” Given what she witnessed last summer, Catharine has every reason to recoil from all humankind. That she cannot is, as for so many Williams characters, both her salvation and damnation.

By Tennessee Williams; directed by Mark Brokaw; sets and costumes by Santo Loquasto; lighting by David Weiner; sound by Peter Golub and Ryan Powers; original music by Mr. Golub; hair and wig design by Tom Watson; production stage manager, James FitzSimmons; dialect coach, Deborah Hecht; fight director, Rick Sordelet; production manager, Kai Brothers; general manager, Rebecca Habel; associate artistic director, Scott Ellis. Presented by the Roundabout Theater Company, Todd Haimes, artistic director; Harold Wolpert, managing director; Julia C. Levy, executive director. At the Laura Pels Theater, at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan; (212) 719-1300. Through Jan. 14. Running time: 1 hour, 30 minutes.
492 2006-11-16 Is Manhattan really the new Brooklyn? Building on the success of Environment 337, their five-year-old home furnishings store in Carroll Gardens, Donald W. J. Mulligan and Loren Sosna, above right, will officially unveil a Greenwich Village branch ...
493 2006-11-16 AIRLINE TAKEOVER BID -- US Airways made an $8 billion offer for Delta Air Lines in an effort to become the nation's largest carrier. The surprise offer may presage a wave of mergers in the struggling airline industry, but must first overcome sever...
494 2006-11-17 The growing number of hedge-fund investments in technology startups means that "the old way of doing things is being disrupted," the Red Herring declares. While hedge funds often help companies as they approach their initial public offerings, thei...
495 2006-11-17 Investors' headlong rush into hedge funds raises two "big questions," according to the latest issue of The Economist. (Our reaction: Only two?) First, with fund managers, investment banks and managers of funds of funds making so much on management...
496 2006-11-17 The death of the great economist causes a ripple in the blogosphere....
497 2006-11-17 A Cisco shareholder proposal fails, but registers growing concern over human rights......
498 2006-11-17 Microsoft, which has agreed with Novell to make the Linux and Windows operating systems compatible, opened the door Thursday to a similar alliance with Red Hat. "We are willing to do the same deal with Red Hat Linux and other Linux distributors," ...
499 2006-11-17 Among the certain unalienable rights of finance in 2006 is that of successful hedge fund managers to make a lot of money. That right is embedded in the compensation structure of the funds: most managers receive 2 percent of the assets they manage ...
500 2006-11-17 Outgoing New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer sued hedge funds Samaritan Asset Management Services and Johnson Capital Management Thursday, charging that they engaged in fraudulent mutual fund market-timing schemes. Mr. Spitzer, who launched a ...
501 2006-11-17 KBR, which runs almost every aspect of the Iraq war except the fighting, rose more than 22 percent Thursday after an initial public offering. It raised $473.3 million Wednesday, after pricing the 27.8 million shares it's selling at $17 a share. KB...
502 2006-11-17 After weeks of controversy, car-rental giant Hertz Global Holdings finally started trading on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday. Hertz priced its $1.3 billion initial public offering below its previously published price range but still raised e...
503 2006-11-17 Energy exchange Nymex Holdings raised $383.5 million Thursday with an initial public offering that priced above a forecast range, according to an underwriter. The 6.5 million share offering, which represents about a 7.5 percent stake in the compan...
504 2006-11-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
505 2006-11-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
506 2006-11-17 Two former executives of a Cranford technology company pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges after they were accused of providing false and misleading information to investors, federal officials said yesterday. The executives — Kevin Holt, 53, of Cranford, the former chief executive and chairman of the board of InsPara Networking Technologies, and Robert Henches, 61, of Montville, the company’s former chief operating officer — admitted falsifying and inflating financial documents, said Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney. The men, both out on bail, face up to five years in prison and $250,000 fines when they are sentenced in March.
507 2006-11-17 A Federal District Court judge in Manhattan has dismissed a lawsuit seeking to block construction of a new Yankee Stadium, lawyers for the Yankees and the city said yesterday. In a decision on Wednesday, Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald rejected a contention from neighborhood groups, including Save Our Parks, that the National Park Service had failed in its mandate to protect two popular city parks whose land would be used for the new stadium. The judge found that the parks service had followed its procedures, said Jonathan Shaw, a lawyer for the Yankees. Jeffrey S. Baker, a lawyer for Save Our Parks, said it had not decided whether to appeal.
508 2006-11-17 The military successfully test-fired a new version of Pakistan’s Ghauri missile, or Hatf-5, which is capable of carrying nuclear warheads as far as 800 miles. The test followed a new accord between Pakistan and India. The countries often fire missiles as a show of strength around peace talks.
509 2006-11-17 New Jersey has the highest property taxes in the nation, with an average annual bill of $6,000, more than twice the national average. So after three months of hearings by four committees, all in the name of revamping the system, the Legislature on Wednesday unveiled 98 proposals, including a 20 percent tax credit for homeowners, a limit on annual property tax increases and a change in the way the state pays for public education.

But translating those proposals into law becomes the next hurdle, and one that Mr. Corzine himself warned would be a “probably more difficult phase of the process.” After all, there are major political implications, too: all 120 state legislators are up for election in 2007, and the property tax burden figures to be one of the hottest issues.

When asked afterward about Mr. Corzine’s speech, Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr., a Democrat from Camden County who clashed with the governor during the budget stalemate, gave the governor a grade of A. He took issue with suggestions that Mr. Corzine was tacitly criticizing the 20 percent tax credit as being a short-term solution.

“That’s not the way that I heard it,” said Mr. Roberts, who attended the Atlantic City event. “I think he suggested that our commitment to provide property tax relief has to be fashioned in the same terms as his commitment and our commitment to the budget. That is, it has to be real stable and sustainable. And that’s a goal which we share, and a challenge which we will work with him to address.”

Late Thursday, Mr. Roberts and Senate President Richard J. Codey, also a Democrat, issued a joint statement emphasizing their commitment to permanent reform.

“The governor’s support for the concept of a 20 percent property tax reduction sets the right tone for the Legislature as it proceeds to the next phase of action on property tax reform,” the two said. “It would be a cruel hoax upon the people of this state to provide a tax cut that is not real or lasting, and we have no intentions of engaging in any such exercise.”

Others in the audience, however, were not so sure. The Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon County who criticized the 98-proposal package on Wednesday as being fiscally myopic, said, “In a veiled fashion, the governor is agreeing with me.”

And William G. Dressel Jr., executive director of the State League of Municipalities, said, “I was getting the distinct impression that he’s not convinced that the revenues are there short-term; he’s not convinced that the revenues are there long-term.”

Still, Mr. Dressel and others said that they were disappointed that Mr. Corzine had barely touched on what many Democrats, Republicans and lobbyists believe will be one of the thorniest issues: raising the retirement age for unionized state workers and requiring state employee contributions to health plans.

To strengthen the package, Mr. Corzine urged legislators to consider a number of other ideas. He said the Legislature had to “think more aggressively” to encourage local governments to consolidate or share services.
510 2006-11-17 Declining prices and weak industrial production reduced the odds that the Fed would again have to increase its benchmark interest rate to hold inflation in check.

Fed policy makers “could hardly have scripted a more benign inflation report,” Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial in Pittsburgh, said in a report to investors.

Falling prices also provided some good news for workers, creating the first substantial boost of real wages in years. After accounting for inflation, hourly wages for blue- and white-collar workers outside management level were 2.8 percent higher in October than a year earlier.

This was the biggest annual increase since 1998, when huge investments in Internet-based companies and services increased wages at the fastest pace since the 1970s. On a monthly basis, the 1 percent gain in real wages recorded in both September and October was the fastest in nearly 35 years.

“Finally, some real bona fide wage gains for workers who have been thus far left behind,” said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

Just as it drove prices up over much of the last year, energy has been the main factor dragging prices down in the last two months. In October, the price of gasoline fell 11.1 percent, according to the price index, compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The price of natural gas and electricity for homeowners fell 2.5 percent. Broadly, energy prices slipped 7 percent in October, after a 7.2 percent decline the month before.

But the moderation in prices spread somewhat beyond energy. Clothing costs declined 0.7 percent, and the price of used cars fell 1.2 percent. The rates for hotel rooms were 0.5 percent lower, and airline fares fell 1.4 percent, the third consecutive monthly decline.

While the slack housing market does not seem to have substantially hampered consumer spending, retail spending was weaker than expected in October. And economists noted that if the housing slump persisted, it could become a bigger drag on economic activity. This would further restrain prices.

Still, some economists cautioned that the drop in energy prices since September is likely to have run its course, and prices are unlikely to keep falling.

Moreover, the prices of some items that have been pushing up core inflation — like rent, tuition and medical services — are still rising briskly.

“One soft core is not a trend,” Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist with High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., wrote in a note to investors.

Perversely, the weak housing market has scared many families away from buying a home and thus increased the demand for rental units. Rents were up 0.4 percent in October, leading to a 3.9 percent rise compared with a year earlier — the biggest annual increase since mid-2002.

The high number of homes for sale could eventually slow the increases in rents when more owners start pushing unsold inventory onto the rental market. Still, Lawrence Yun, a senior economist at the National Association of Realtors, argued that with vacancy rates in multifamily rental buildings still under 5 percent, rents were likely to continue accelerating through the second half of 2007.

Core inflation remains high — reported at 2.3 percent over the last three months, on an annualized basis. That is still above the 2 percent threshold that the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said he is comfortable with.

The minutes from last month’s meeting of the Fed’s interest rate-setting committee indicated that Fed governors were concerned that inflation remained too high.

“Most participants expected core inflation to moderate gradually,” the minutes said, “but they were quite uncertain as to the likely pace and extent of that moderation.”

The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Michael H. Moskow, echoed those sentiments in a speech yesterday, saying that while inflation had retreated somewhat, it remained the “dominant concern” for the Fed. Speaking to reporters in Chicago as quoted by Reuters, Mr. Moskow added, “It’s a bit premature for anyone to say that we have broken the back” of inflation.

Mr. Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute said that the rise in real wages had been driven not by faster nominal wage growth, but by slower price growth. “So there’s no evidence of wage-push inflation,” he said.

But Ethan S. Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, said the tight labor market was an inflation risk: unemployment is at its lowest in more than five years and labor costs are rising quickly.

“The way you stop inflation is by lowering growth and pushing up the unemployment rate,” Mr. Harris said. “But the unemployment rate keeps falling.”

Though they acknowledged that profit margins were big enough for businesses to absorb higher wages without increasing prices, Fed governors at their last meeting noted the risk that rising wages could slow the decline in inflation, according to the minutes.

Mr. Harris argued that the Fed is still likely to raise interest rates once more next March. At the least, other economists said, until the Fed can be sure that inflation has indeed stabilized — and until they are convinced that economic growth will remain slow for some time — they have little incentive to reduce interest rates.

“They’re not going to be completely won over until they see a more extended moderation in inflation,” said Paul Ashworth, senior economist with Capital Economics, a research firm based in London. “And certainly not until it becomes apparent that growth is going to continue on a slower course.“
511 2006-11-17 But there have been tradeoffs: fewer victories, diminished television exposure, disappointed alumni and dwindling attendance. On the eve of tomorrow’s annual Harvard-Yale game, the wisdom of the 1981 downsizing of football is still broadly debated.

“It has been painful to watch the unnecessary atrophy of the league,” said John Rogan, Yale’s quarterback in 1981.

Yale’s athletic director, Thomas Beckett, said: “The Ivy League should have remained in the top division of college football. We still play quality football with gifted students, but it would have been a wonderful way to continue a worthy tradition.”

Carm Cozza, Yale’s football coach from 1965 to 1996, still keeps his office on campus, a wood-paneled den filled with photographs of a packed Yale Bowl.

“We might average less than 20,000 for our games this season,” Cozza, 76, said last week. “We used to have that for a scrimmage. I’m exaggerating, but not much.”

Others see in the Ivy League’s lower football profile a collegiate athletic ideal, and they ponder if some major football colleges chose the wrong fork in the road.

“In the largest football group, I see so many serious problems and a real loss of confidence in academic integrity,” said Hunter R. Rawlings III, Cornell’s president from 1995 to 2003 and the university’s interim president in 2005-6. Rawlings was also president at the University of Iowa for seven years. “The Ivy League is better off making it clear what it values most,” he said.

The debate intensifies when the Ivy League is compared with institutions like Stanford, Northwestern, Duke and the service academies, which still compete in Division I-A and adhere to high academic credentials. It is often suggested that the Ivy teams could have maintained their Division I-A status, which would have likely boosted recruiting and attendance, while playing league opponents and a mix of games against institutions with similar academic standards.

Some Ivy athletic administrators, like Beckett, dream of a football schedule that contains the service academies and a select few other top-tier teams. Already, Yale plans to play Army in 2010 and 2012. Steve Bilsky, the athletic director at Pennsylvania, mentioned Stanford, Northwestern, Vanderbilt and the service academies and said: “You can envision the situation where those schools and the Ivies might find some common ground that’s comfortable. That’s a long-term solution that offers some appeal.”

But such change would buck 50 years of ever-increasing Ivy League football isolationism. The league began formal play in 1956 with the intent of separating itself from national football powers that its members feared were taking the sport too seriously.

“Since the 1950s, the Ivy League has been relatively consistent, and maybe that’s the point,” said James Wright, president of Dartmouth. “We haven’t changed fundamentally. The others have.”

Indeed, the Ivy League prohibits its football champion from participating in the relatively low-key Division I-AA national championship playoffs. In all other Ivy League sports, from fencing to field hockey, teams are allowed to compete for an N.C.A.A.-recognized national championship, and that is at the top level of Division I.

“Once you start worrying about a national football championship, then you begin to worry about getting the quality of athlete, and the numbers needed, to win a national championship,” Bok said when asked why football is kept out of the postseason playoffs. “And that worry leads to pressure to compromise academic standards to admit those athletes. That’s how even responsible institutions end up doing things they don’t like doing.”

With that kind of thinking dominating the positions of leadership, a scenario in which the Ivy League would step up in class to join Division I-A football programs like Stanford or the service academies seems unlikely.

Jeff Orleans, the Ivy League’s executive director, said, “For those who wonder why we didn’t stay in Division I-A as Duke, Stanford and Northwestern did, I would ask, what do you think of their football experience this year?”

Duke’s football team is 0-10 this season. Stanford is 1-9 and Northwestern is 3-8.

“One could argue,” Orleans said, “that the Ivy League has had the better football experience than those institutions have had for the last 25 years. You might want to ask why they didn’t do what we did.”

But others say Ivy League football is too central to the game’s history to be in its current position. The teams were perennial national champions from 1869 to 1939 and were still nationally ranked well into the 1970s, but now they frequently lose to less established programs with no national reputation. More demoralizing might be that these games are often played in storied locations like the Yale Bowl and Harvard Stadium before crowds that fill only one-fourth of the seats.

“It’s depressing when you can walk up to one of those great old Ivy League places 15 minutes before game time and buy a ticket without even waiting in line,” said Joe Restic, who coached at Harvard for 23 seasons beginning in 1971. “It all started with the I-AA classification. Right away the recruits said to us, ‘I don’t want to play with the second-class citizens.’

“The Ivy presidents should have fought it. A great institution should try to excel in whatever it undertakes. We didn’t have to play Notre Dame, but we should have held the line so we could still compete with our traditional nonleague rivals. Instead, before the season started I could look at the schedule and see three games where I knew our chances of losing were very high.”

From 1956 to 1981, the eight Ivy League teams had a .562 winning percentage against nonleague opponents, and those games often included prominent national football programs — Penn would play Penn State, for example. From 1982 through 2006, the league had a .453 winning percentage against outside opponents. And in most cases, schedules have been downgraded — Cornell has played Albany and Columbia has faced Iona.

Attendance has dwindled as well since 1981. During the 2005 season, the average attendance for Ivy League games was 9,606, a drop of 30 percent from 25 years ago.

This season, thanks to a close race between Yale and Princeton for the Ivy championship, league attendance is expected to rise above 10,000 fans a game, and the Ivy teams have had an unusually successful season against nonleague teams this year, winning 16 of 24 games.

The current Ivy football coaches, none of whom were coaching in 1981, look back and concede the league has changed since it was reclassified. But they also point to a number of other factors that brought change, like higher admissions standards, escalating tuition costs and an incoming class that is more female and more international, leaving less room for football players.

“Go back 25 years, the average SAT scores for all Yale students might have been in the low 1300s,” Yale Coach Jack Siedlecki said. “Now that score is nearly 1500. We are required to recruit kids who generally fit that range.”

The Ivy League, which has never given out athletic scholarships, has a complex statistical rubric for all its athletic recruits called the Academic Index, which converts high school grades or class rank and test scores into a single number assigned to each recruit. There is a minimum Academic Index number allowed for admission, and each institution is allowed only a certain number of recruited athletes at the lowest range of the acceptable index. The information on athletes’ index numbers and the total admitted is shared among the league members.

Before the index’s implementation in the early 1980s, Cozza routinely had 50 recruits yearly at Yale. Siedlecki now receives only 30, and because of additional restrictions imposed by the Ivy presidents a few years ago, Siedlecki gets just two recruits from the lowest range of the index. At one point, he might have gotten four or five times as many.

Another shift has been financial.

“I wonder if the biggest obstacle now isn’t the monetary burden,” said Fred Leone, captain of the 1981 Yale team. “When I went to Yale, I might have been putting my parents out $3,000 a year by going there instead of getting a football scholarship somewhere else. Now, if a recruit has a scholarship offer somewhere, Yale is asking him to give it up and pay maybe $35,000 a year. That’s going to lose you a lot of recruits.”

One of those who turned down a scholarship offer, from Oregon State, is Brig Walker, a senior linebacker at Princeton.

“It was an anguishing time because every kid dreams of playing before 100,000 people in a big bowl game,” Walker said in the moments after Princeton upset Yale last weekend. “I’m told they used to sell out the Yale Bowl with 75,000 fans, right?

“That would have been pretty fun. But I’m happy now with my decision. I guess you can’t have it both ways.”

Yale tackle Ed McCarthy stood not far from Walker. McCarthy’s father, John, played for Yale’s undefeated 1968 team.

“I know the level of play is no longer what it was,” said McCarthy, an all-Ivy and all-Ivy academic team selection. “I read the other day that Yale’s Rich Diana finished 10th in the Heisman Trophy voting in 1981. That’s not happening anymore.

“Obviously, it would be nice right now to be playing for one of the nation’s top teams, to not be a I-AA team. Maybe it comes down to what you’re willing to sacrifice. The Ivy League wanted to keep the legitimacy of its ideals. It cost us football status. But what has it cost the big-time football schools?”
512 2006-11-17 Although it was G.M. that abruptly pulled out of last summer’s alliance talks, Mr. Ghosn emphasized that Nissan and Renault were not actively seeking a partner at the time. He also said Nissan and Renault shareholders seemed resistant to the proposal, suggesting a deal may not have happened even if G.M. were open to it.

The proposal was made by G.M.’s largest individual shareholder, the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, and the three automakers participated in more than two months of discussions before G.M.’s board voted to end them. G.M.’s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, believed his company would benefit far less than Nissan and Renault, and Mr. Ghosn was unwilling to pay a premium to compensate for that difference.

Mr. Ghosn said he was not talking to other automakers about working together and did not plan to do so. During the summer, the chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, William Clay Ford Jr., reportedly called Mr. Ghosn and asked him to consider a partnership if discussions with G.M. did not work out.

Analysts say a partnership with a Detroit automaker would help Nissan, the third-largest Japanese carmaker, gain on Toyota and Honda, whose sales are surging. Toyota is in line to surpass G.M., possibly as early as next year, as the world’s largest automaker.

“Sooner or later, Nissan needs to find a way to participate more broadly in North America,” said John Casesa, managing partner of Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York. “The profits that Toyota will make here will be used against all of its competitors, including Nissan. So at some point, it becomes a defensive strategy.”

Nissan could look to G.M. or Ford as it plans to increase production in North America in anticipation of higher sales in the United States. Nissan projects that demand will be higher than its capacity in the coming years, and Mr. Ghosn left open the possibility that, rather than building a factory, he would seek to use a plant closed by a Detroit automaker.
513 2006-11-17 The city’s oldest standing bridge, a long-closed structure named the High Bridge linking Manhattan to the Bronx, has no significant structural problems but needs $20 million to $30 million of work to reopen, according to a study scheduled to be released today.

It is unclear, however, where the money to reopen the High Bridge would come from and when the bridge might reopen, city officials said yesterday. A complete restoration would cost $60 million, said Ashe Reardon, a spokesman for the city’s Parks Department. The department alone does not have the money for the full project and has no plans to undertake it, parks officials said.

The pedestrian-only bridge, a city landmark that spans the Harlem River, was completed in 1848 as part of the Old Croton Aqueduct system, which first brought fresh water to Manhattan. But it has been closed since about 1970, according to the Parks Department.

It is blocked on both sides by a heavy metal gate and razor wire, though it is a common sight in the summer to see children from the Bronx neighborhoods around Yankee Stadium climbing the fence and crossing the bridge to reach the public swimming pool on the Manhattan side of Highbridge Park.

Though the bridge’s future remains unclear, Representative José E. Serrano, who represents the South Bronx, said the generally positive engineering study conducted by Baker Engineering NY Inc., based in Elmsford, N.Y., was a step toward reopening the High Bridge.

When the High Bridge opened, the 1,450-foot-long bridge was hailed as an engineering marvel. It was built to bring water from the Old Croton Aqueduct into Manhattan during a period of explosive city growth.

A walkway was added only after the bridge and its distinctive circular archways, modeled after a Roman aqueduct, became a tourist attraction. In the 1920s the bridge’s center masonry arches were declared a hazard to navigation and replaced by a single steel span.
514 2006-11-17 On Thursday, President Jalal Talabani called for an emergency meeting of Iraq’s political leaders, portraying it as an effort to stave off the complete collapse of the government, an official in the presidency said Thursday.

“In a bid to save the political process, he has suggested having a summit of the political parties to try to put an end to the current divisions,” said the official, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to comment on the matter.

Mr. Talabani floated the idea of an emergency summit meeting on Tuesday during a meeting of a government committee for national security. The meeting had devolved into “a shouting match” between Sunni and Shiite participants, according to an Iraqi official who attended. The president, alarmed by the rancor, announced, “We have to decide if we want a state or not.”

The country’s major blocs and political parties have agreed “in principle” to the meeting and have formed a committee to draft an agenda, the official in the presidency said.

The security challenges facing the government were underscored on Tuesday by the daytime kidnapping of dozens of people from a Ministry of Higher Education building in central Baghdad. Since then, the government’s response to the crisis has been undermined by public disagreements among senior government officials over the fate of the captives.

The minister of higher education, Abed Thiab al-Ajili, said Thursday that about 70 captives had been released but that another 70 or so were still missing. Some of those freed said they had been beaten and tortured by their captors, and they told ministry officials that others had been killed, the minister said, adding that he had not confirmed the reports of killed captives.

One victim “was almost crying when he described what he was subjected to,” Mr. Ajili said. “It was as if they died a hundred times because of the severe torture.”

But Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the government’s national security adviser, said in an interview on Thursday that all the captives had been freed and that none had been killed. “The minister is overreaching,” he said. A statement issued by the office of the government’s spokesman said 50 people had been kidnapped.

Mr. Rubaie said the mass abduction was committed by “rogue elements of a militia.” He refused to identify the group, but other government officials said it appeared to be a component of the Mahdi Army, the militia that follows the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, a mainstay of the ruling Shiite alliance.

Mr. Rubaie said the kidnappers, who were wearing the uniforms of a government police force, appeared to have infiltrated the Interior Ministry, which oversees Iraq’s police forces. The motive for the kidnapping remained unclear on Thursday. Mr. Rubaie said the kidnappers were trying to embarrass the administration of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. For his part, Mr. Maliki has attributed the kidnapping to a rivalry between militias.

ABC News reported on Thursday that 14 people had been kidnapped, including four Americans, in a convoy of contractors near Nasariya, attributing the report to defense officials. Reuters quoted Sgt. Matthew Roe, an American military spokesman in Baghdad as saying, “We can confirm that an incident happened in Nasiriya that resulted in kidnappings.” Much of the blame for the government’s disarray, its inability to curb the raging sectarian violence and its failure to improve public services significantly has fallen on Mr. Maliki. American officials and some Iraqi leaders say he has failed to move decisively to confront Iraq’s myriad problems, and they now wonder if he has the political muscle or will to help pull the government together.

In the interview on Thursday, Mr. Rubaie defended Mr. Maliki, saying the prime minister had “an unfettered commitment” to peace and democracy in Iraq. “We are working very, very hard to reduce the level of violence, especially the sectarian violence,” he said.

He also discounted the notion that a politician other than Mr. Maliki could do a better job of running the country. “I don’t believe we have any other option than Maliki,” Mr. Rubaie said.

The American military command announced that four American soldiers had been killed. One was killed on Tuesday by small-arms fire in Baghdad, the military said. The other three were killed on Wednesday in Diyala, two when a bomb exploded near their vehicle and one by small-arms fire. At least 44 American soldiers have been killed this month.
515 2006-11-17 SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 16 — A Seoul court issued warrants on Thursday to detain two senior executives of Lone Star Funds, a private equity firm based in Texas, allowing prosecutors to widen their investigation into the firm’s operations.

The prosecutors planned to seek the extradition of Ellis Short, a founder and vice chairman of Lone Star, and Michael Thomson, its general counsel, so that they could question and possibly indict the two Americans on charges of stock manipulation.

Suspicion about Lone Star, which has been plagued by legal problems in South Korea, has been widespread, as has controversy over whether prosecutors are discriminating against foreign investors. The decision also added uncertainty to what was billed as one of South Korea’s biggest corporate takeovers: Kookmin Bank’s plan to buy Lone Star’s majority stake in Korea Exchange Bank.

The Seoul Central District Court issued the warrants after Mr. Short and Mr. Thomson did not respond to prosecutors’ summonses.

“We have offered repeatedly to come to Korea for questioning, as long as we are allowed to leave,” Mr. Short said in a statement. “We remain willing to cooperate fully with the prosecutors’ investigation if they abide by international standards of justice.”

In the last two weeks, the same court twice rejected the prosecutors’ requests for warrants against Mr. Short and Mr. Thomson. But Judge Min Byung-hoon said Thursday that he had issued the warrants because the prosecutors this time made it clear that they would use them to try to extradite the men.

The Lone Star executives face accusations that they spread false rumors to drive down the stock price of Korea Exchange’s credit card unit in November 2003 to reduce the cost of absorbing the unit into the bank. The prosecutors were also investigating whether Lone Star had plotted with the former management of Korea Exchange and government officials to buy a 50.5 percent stake in the bank in 2003 for a bargain price of 1.38 trillion won, now equivalent to $1.49 billion.
516 2006-11-17 “This is like a franchise,” Mr. Derry said. “I saw that I could recreate what the other state groups are doing.”

No one is more central to this replicating effort than Mr. Reed, who combines libertarian ardor with a demeanor so earnest it approaches guilelessness. He said he first felt called to “the liberty movement” as a 12-year-old watching the “The Sound of Music,” and was a high school sophomore when he burned his first Soviet flag.

He attributes the Republican losses in last week’s election to party’s failure to cling to its small-government philosophy and argues the drift shows the need for groups like his. “This underscores the importance of investing in ideas first and foremost, because politicians will almost always disappoint,” Mr. Reed said.

As a full-throated advocate of capitalism — the jagged, creative-destructive kind — Mr. Reed says he is used to being called a corporate apologist who would despoil the environment and afflict the poor. But he sees himself as a defender of free markets and free men, claiming among his major role models Thomas Clarkson, a 19th-century British abolitionist whom Mr. Reed regards as the world’s first think-tank entrepreneur. “Clarkson championed our movement’s overarching principle: If there’s anything certain in human affairs, it’s that liberty will prevail,” he said.

From Midland, Mr. Reed runs Mackinac (pronounced MAK-in-aw), the largest of the right’s state-level policy institutes. The center started its training program eight years ago, and it has alumni in nearly every state and 37 countries, from Uruguay to Nepal. Among them was a Mongolian who went on to become prime minister, putting his free-market training to work by privatizing the national herd of yaks.

When the Mackinac Center was founded in 1987, there were just three other conservative state-level policy institutes. Now there are 48, in 42 states, joined in an association called the State Policy Network. At least three former presidents of such institutes are now in the House, Representatives Mike Pence of Indiana, Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Tom Tancredo of Colorado, all Republicans.

Collectively, the groups have pushed for cuts in health and welfare programs, constitutional limits on state spending, and expanded school choice programs. They have opposed what they call burdensome health, safety, and environmental regulations and increases in the minimum wage.

In labeling the institutes (and himself), Mr. Reed prefers the term “free market” over “conservative,” since most of the groups stress economics over social issues.

In Colorado, the Independence Institute has been a leading force behind a constitutional spending cap called the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. In Arizona, the Goldwater Institute has championed a school-choice law that sends 22,500 children a year to private schools. The Texas Public Policy Foundation helped pass a law to end what the group said were excessive lawsuits.

“In terms of generating and popularizing ideas, I think they’ve been very effective,” said Carl Helstrom, executive director of the JM Foundation, one of the movement’s major donors.

Some critics say the groups’ support for unfettered markets promotes a form of social Darwinism.

“Their philosophy encourages selfishness and greed,” said Iris J. Lav, who runs the State Fiscal Analysis Initiative, a network of 29 liberal state-level groups organized in part as a countervailing force. “If you have problems, they don’t care — just too bad.”

Greed is the rare accusation that rankles Mr. Reed.

“They think if you’re pushing free markets there must be something in it for you,” he said. “It speaks to their ignorance.”

Mr. Reed was raised in western Pennsylvania, where his father ran a plumbing-supply store and both parents ignored politics. The persecution of the von Trapp family in “The Sound of Music” grabbed his attention; the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, in 1968, sent him running to his first protest. He was 14.

After earning a master’s degree at Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, he taught economics at Northwood University in Midland, but academia left him restless. In 1982, Mr. Reed, then 29, unsuccessfully ran for Congress and got to know an ambitious state senator named John Engler.

Both were Republicans who thought Michigan needed its own version of the Heritage Foundation, a Washington policy institute that was influencing the Reagan presidency. A few years later, when such a group formed, Mr. Engler helped recruit Mr. Reed to run it.

With $20,000 in seed money, the Mackinac Center was started in 1987 as a bare-bones affair, but quickly proved troublesome to Gov. James J. Blanchard, a Democrat. The Mackinac Center warned that one of Mr. Blanchard’s signature programs, the nation’s first prepaid college tuition plan, would need a state bailout. Amid fears about its financial health, the program soon suspended enrollment.

After Mr. Engler unseated Mr. Blanchard in 1990, Mackinac had a friend at the top. Acting on the center’s advice, Mr. Engler sold a state-owned insurance company for $250 million. But when Mr. Engler created tax breaks to lure businesses to Michigan, Mr. Reed, clinging to his free-market views, attacked them as “corporate welfare.”

The Mackinac Center has often battled the Michigan Education Association, a teachers’ union. When the union opposed privatizing support services, like school meals and security, a Mackinac employee monitored the union parking lot and discovered that it used private contractors like the ones it was opposing.

“We don’t just write papers, we do stakeouts,” Mr. Reed said.

Many of the state-level groups were inspired by larger Washington counterparts, like the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation. While there are no formal ties, many informal bonds have been formed through overlapping donors, revolving employees and occasional joint projects.

A key supporter of the state-level movement was Thomas A. Roe, a South Carolina industrialist and Heritage Foundation donor who founded the South Carolina Policy Council, and helped finance the other state-level groups. Mr. Roe died in 2000, but the Roe Foundation gives each of the 48 groups annual grants of $15,000 to $30,000.

With a budget of more than $4 million and a staff of 32, the Mackinac Center is more than five times larger than the average state-level institute, some of which consist of little more than a person and a fax machine. Most groups do not disclose donations they receive.

To maximize the groups’ clout, Mr. Roe encouraged them to share their work, and a culture of mutual aid has taken hold. “There’s a joke that you don’t have to reinvent the wheel, you can steal somebody else’s wheel and use it,” said Mr. Helstrom, the JM Foundation executive.

Mr. Derry of the Bluegrass Institute has taken that advice to heart. He was working at an asset management firm in 2003 when a Bowling Green tax increase got under his skin. A few months later, he was sitting in Mr. Reed’s school, wondering whether to quit his $400,000 job to start a shoestring policy group.

“You’re going to have to decide what’s more important,” Mr. Reed said as the course wound down. “Making a lot of money or championing liberty.”

He said part of the appeal was the network of groups ready to help. By the institute’s second year, three conservative foundations offered grants totaling $80,000, but most of what Mr. Derry calls “franchise” help came in other ways.

Mr. Reed has a standard speech he calls the “Seven Principles of Sound Public Policy.” Mr. Derry added the words “for Kentucky” and took it on the fund-raising trail. The Evergreen Freedom Foundation, in Olympia, Wash., is known for its guide to paring state budgets. Mr. Derry distributed it under the Bluegrass name. A Maryland paper on excessive lawsuits, republished in North Carolina, gained a third life as “Preparing for Tort Reform in Kentucky.”

“People were so helpful, I couldn’t believe it,” Mr. Derry said. “It jump-started me by a couple of years.”

The Bluegrass Institute quickly made a mark by fighting with the state’s governor, Ernie Fletcher, a Republican, over a tax plan he called revenue-neutral and Mr. Derry called a tax increase. To make a point about pork-barrel spending, his group sent an intern into the Capitol dressed like a pig.

Depending on one’s perspective, the Bluegrass Institute view of liberty can seem either steadfast or extreme. Walking to his car after a recent event, Jim Waters, the policy director at the institute, mentioned how he had recently survived a head-on collision thanks to his car’s airbags. A few moments later, describing the institute’s priorities, he said the Bluegrass Institute was fighting tougher seat-belt laws, which he called an intrusion on liberty. Car safety laws “did save my life,” he conceded when asked about the apparent contradiction.

At an institute event in Bowling Green, an audience member chided the group for opposing efforts to ban smoking in restaurants. “I watched my mother die of cancer,” the person said.

“We hate smoking as much as you do,” Mr. Derry replied. “But we hate government even more.”

The Bluegrass Institute has a budget of about $400,000, but recently laid off a policy analyst, leaving a staff of five. Still, even critics say the group has leveraged modest resources into a growing presence.

“They get airplay,” said Susan Weston, a longtime advocate for Kentucky public schools. “They get their op-eds published. They’ve built an e-mail list.”

True to his promise of continuing help, Mr. Reed made a two-day visit to Kentucky last year. Speaking to potential donors in Louisville, he likened Mr. Derry to Benjamin Franklin.

After the event, Mr. Derry marveled once more at all the support he had received.

Mr. Reed said, “You’re our comrade in arms.”
517 2006-11-17 Yum Brands said yesterday that it had named new presidents for its Taco Bell and Pizza Hut businesses, among other appointments, to increase sales and profit growth.

Emil J. Brolick, 59, was named president of brand building in the United States, a new post. He had been president of Taco Bell, and was succeeded by Greg Creed, 49, who was most recently chief operating officer of Yum Brands.

Peter R. Hearl, 55, was named Yum Brands’ chief operating and development officer, a new combined role.

Scott Bergren, 60, was named president of Pizza Hut, succeeding Mr. Hearl. He was previously an executive vice president for Yum Brands.
518 2006-11-17 “I’ve been trading 20 years,” said Eric Bolling, an independent trader on the New York Mercantile Exchange, “and my thesis has been not to listen to what OPEC says, but look at what they do. As long as prices remain relatively high, OPEC will continue to put crude out there. When prices fall lower, they will cut production.”

Weeks from the beginning of winter, a peak demand season for oil worldwide, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries once more finds itself in a quandary: should it keep supplies tight to stop prices from falling much below $60 a barrel or should it ease its grip, risking the addition of fresh supplies to already bulging oil inventories.

“The return to discipline is going to be tough for OPEC,” said Frédéric Lasserre, head of commodity research at Société Générale in Paris. “OPEC has not convinced the oil market.”

Earlier this week, confusion over OPEC’s actions prompted Saudi Arabia, the main power broker in the oil cartel, to repeat its intention of reducing its own production this year. The Saudis had already signaled that more cuts might be needed before the end of the year if prices fell further. OPEC is to meet again next month in Nigeria.

Saudi Arabia, which pumped 9.1 million barrels a day in October, would have to pare its output to 8.7 million barrels, the lowest level in three years, to abide by its pledge. Because of the lack of reliable data on oil production, it will be weeks, if not months, before anyone knows for sure how much Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members are actually pumping today.

“Many OPEC countries believe the market is indeed very soft, so we might cut production,” Edmund Daukoru, the Nigerian oil minister and OPEC’s current president, told Reuters on Wednesday. “I have the feeling that the general sentiment is for another cut.”

To be sure, OPEC, which accounts for 40 percent of the world’s exports, retains considerable market power. In the past, bets against OPEC have proved costly and such strategies could backfire again.

Hedge fund managers and big speculators seem to have scaled back their bets on falling oil prices for the first time in four weeks. But short positions — where the trader is betting on a drop in prices — still outnumber long positions, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission reported this week.

Some analysts said OPEC was determined to keep markets from slipping out of its control.

“There is a lot of doubt on the market, but I do not think it is justified,” said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. “Some people think all you have to do is press a button and a production cut is immediate. But it’s a big deal; you have to rearrange loading schedules, inform customers — it all takes time.”

“The Saudis are serious about this,” he added, “and they all have an interest to cooperate.”

In Qatar, OPEC surprised the market by pledging to reduce output by 1.2 million barrels a day starting Nov. 1, slightly more than the figure of a million barrels that had been widely circulated in the weeks leading to the meeting.

The group is worried about the high level of commercial oil supplies in Western countries that have been steadily building in recent months, and it is seeking to force down the inventory levels. OPEC strategists want to avoid a repetition of 1997, when high inventories and a heavily supplied market, coupled with a sudden drop in demand from the Asian financial crisis, led to a collapse in oil prices.

Among the Saudi objectives, according to Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, is “to stem the blood bath in the market.”

Data from the West’s energy watchdog, the International Energy Agency, shows that oil inventories in countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development covered 55 days of demand at the end of September, two days more than the period a year earlier.

Some analysts pointed out that inventories in the United States have been falling sharply in recent days.

Paul Horsnell of Barclays Capital said in a note this week, “We believe the market is ultimately going to face overtightening and the longer it takes before prices make a more significant move up, the more vicious is likely to be the whiplash when they do start to move.”
519 2006-11-17 Lisa Rapuano, a longtime value investor, grappled with these issues and came up with a compensation structure based on the radical notion of delayed gratification. In January, she will start a value-oriented hedge fund that pays her a hefty incentive fee, but only every three years.

Lane Five Capital Management charges a 1.5 percent management fee and takes 40 percent of any profits that exceed her hurdle rate (the Standard & Poor’s 1,500 index) every three years. If the fund has negative returns, she gets nothing — a fact her husband finds very perplexing, according to Ms. Rapuano’s presentation at the Value Investing Congress in New York last week.

Her reasoning, which she outlined at the conference, was straightforward. She likes the hedge fund model of compensation because it is incentive-based. It is better than the traditional asset management model, which encourages mediocrity. Traditional managers are paid based on the amount of money they manage, not their performance.

But she called the 12-month time horizon of hedge fund compensation “less than ideal” because it can cause people to “gun for performance and take undue risks at the end of the year,” she said.

Ms. Rapuano could easily charge the requisite 2 and 20. Newcomers with dubious track records charge 2 and 20.

Her track record is certainly worthy of 2 and 20. She started at Legg Mason in 1994 as an analyst focused on consumer products. While a generalist, she focused on telecommunications, technology and media, a sector sometimes shunned by value investors who believe that technology changes too quickly to forecast adequately.

From 1997 until 2001, she was co-manager of the Legg Mason Special Investment Trust with Bill Miller, the investing equivalent of Elvis (he has beat the S.& P. 500 every year for the last 15 years, which is very, very rare). Mr. Miller handed her the reins for the Special Investment Trust in 2001 even though they continued to work closely together. At the beginning of 2004, she went to Matador Capital, a hedge fund.

The Legg Mason Special Investment portfolio performed well on her watch. According to Morningstar, for the three years that ended in 2003, the fund had annualized performance of 11.9 percent, putting it in the 11th percentile of all mid-cap blend funds. For that period, the fund ranked No. 26 out of 247 funds.

During her time at Legg Mason, both she and Mr. Miller took some criticism for their investment ideas. For example, they were major holders of Amazon.com, a stock many value investors would not even consider. (Her view of value investing is that all investing is value investing and any business can be a value business.)

Not surprisingly, competitors loathe Ms. Rapuano’s compensation structure idea. Why wouldn’t they? If she becomes the industry norm, they make less money.

She will pay taxes every year on money that she gets only every three years. She will have to explain to investors who are accustomed to checking the familiar 2-and-20 box that she is different. And she will have to answer the obvious question of why she won’t feel even more pressure to perform at the end of three years than a regular get-paid-every-year manager feels annually.

It is unclear whether investors will embrace Mr. Rapuano’s revolution of accountability or ignore it. One leader of a major alternative asset management group suggested to his partners that maybe they should charge lower fees to win more business, a well-worn business strategy. He was all but kicked out of the room.

Rationally, investors know that high fees do not always equate to exceptional performance.

Expensive is not always better, which is certainly reassuring to those of us who cannot afford Gucci. So perhaps as managers stumble to the end of 2006, those with mediocre returns might consider Ms. Rapuano’s radical compensation structure.
520 2006-11-17 For the first time in a few years, the Mets and the Yankees will probably be competing for the same players. Both teams are interested in Barry Zito and may seek similar fall-back options among the second-tier pitchers.

But Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said he did not feel compelled to counter the moves made by his four division rivals within the last week.

“We’d like to do something, but we don’t have to do something,” he said.

Cashman said he would probably ask Scott Proctor, who led the American League with 83 appearances last season, to prepare for next season as if he were starting. The Yankees have Brian Bruney and the recently acquired Chris Britton as right-handed options in the bullpen before turning to Kyle Farnsworth and Mariano Rivera. Proctor could easily return to the bullpen if needed.

The Yankees also need a left-handed reliever to replace Ron Villone, and Scott Schoeneweis, who is younger than Villone and just as versatile, may be a possibility.

The Blue Jays, who had an aggressive off-season last year, ignited another one Wednesday by reportedly spending about $23 million to secure Thomas, the designated hitter they sorely missed last season. After making a base salary of $500,000 last season, Thomas, 38, earned $2.6 million in bonuses after hitting 39 home runs and driving in 114 runs for Oakland. The A’s were presumed to have the inside track on re-signing him, but the Blue Jays swooped in to fill a huge void.

Without continuity at designated hitter, the Blue Jays lacked production, tying for the third-fewest home runs (17) and runs batted in (71) at the position. Thomas will fit neatly into a lineup that includes Vernon Wells, Troy Glaus, Lyle Overbay and the emerging Alexis Rios. If he stays healthy, Thomas can help Toronto compete with Boston and the Yankees in the American League East.

The A’s must find a way to replace Thomas’s production, and it is not unthinkable that a potential solution is across the Bay Bridge. Barry Bonds is a free agent, and his balky knees may make being a designated hitter more appealing.

Jeff Borris, Bonds’s agent, would not discuss other teams’ interest in Bonds, but he said: “It is not out of the question that Barry could return to San Francisco. I continue to have ongoing discussions with San Francisco.”

The Phillies signed Wes Helms to a two-year deal to play third base in what they hope was a prelude to adding another right-handed hitter. They will aggressively pursue Alfonso Soriano to protect Ryan Howard and are prepared to offer a hefty contract.

A sticking point may be if Soriano’s representatives insist on a full no-trade clause; Phillies General Manager Pat Gillick has said he would not budge on his stance opposing one. Pat Burrell has a no-trade clause in his contract that has limited the Phillies’ ability to trade him.

In other news Thursday, the Cubs made a rare trade with their South Side rivals, acquiring the left-handed reliever Neal Cotts from the White Sox for pitchers David Aardsma and Carlos Vázquez. Also, first baseman Sean Casey re-signed with the Detroit Tigers for another year.
521 2006-11-17 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 3.19 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,399.76, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 6.31 points, or 0.26 percent, to 2,449.06. The S.&P. is at a six-year high, while the Nasdaq is near a six-year high.

Financial stocks and the consumer discretionary sectors led the advancers, while energy stocks moved lower as commodity prices fell. Light crude oil settled down $2.50 at $56.26 on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders focused on the drop in demand that a slowing economy could bring rather than any production cuts, which could support prices.

Bonds fell sharply, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.66 percent from 4.62 percent on Wednesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 12/32, to 9922/32.

The 0.5 percent drop in the Consumer Price Index, the crucial measure of inflation, matched the decline in September and was the first two-month drop since late last year. The core inflation figure, which strips out volatility-prone prices for food and energy, rose 0.1 percent, the smallest increase in eight months.

The Labor Department also reported the number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits fell by 2,000, to 308,000, last week, the lowest reading in a month. Last month, the nation’s unemployment rate fell to a five-year low.

Stocks gained after the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reported that its index of manufacturing conditions rose to 5.1 from negative 0.7 in October. A positive reading signifies growth. Regional economic conditions “improved slightly” in November, but indicators for new orders and employment weakened.

Clear Channel, the country’s No. 1 owner of radio stations, agreed to be taken private for about $18.7 billion by an investment group led by Thomas H. Lee Partners and Bain Capital Partners. The deal includes about $8 billion in debt. Clear Channel rose $1.24, or 3.6 percent, to $35.36.

Reader’s Digest, the magazine publisher and direct marketer, rose $1.19, or 7.6 percent, to $16.70 after agreeing to be acquired for about $1.61 billion by an investment consortium led by a private equity group, Ripplewood Holdings.

Dell, the computer maker, fell 65 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $25.10. Dell delayed its third-quarter earnings report and announced that federal regulators had begun a formal investigation into the company. Dell said it did not know the specific nature of the investigation.

Also, dragging on the Nasdaq, Applied Materials, the maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, fell 67 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $17.98 after it reported weaker-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter revenue and earnings.

KBR, a unit of the Halliburton Company, opened for trading after its initial public offering and jumped $3.75, or 22.1 percent, to $20.75. The car rental company Hertz Global, which also made its debut, was up 72 cents, or 4.8 percent, at $15.72.

Consolidated volume at the New York Stock Exchange came to 2.83 billion shares compared with 2.93 billion traded Wednesday.
522 2006-11-17 With its politically charged subject matter and a pseudonymous author whose job it was to deceive those closest to him, “Inside the Jihad” is an altogether new addition to the growing library of books about Islamic terrorism after the 9/11 attacks. The question is whether the account is true.

Basic Books, which is selling the book in the United States, said it was confident that Mr. Nasiri’s main story was reliable. One of the key events he describes — a police raid on his mother’s apartment in Brussels in 1995 that led to the arrest of three of his brothers — is corroborated in press accounts.

Lara Heimert, the executive editor of Basic Books, also cited reporting by the BBC and other European news organizations that substantiated his intelligence links. The BBC broadcast a 45-minute documentary on Mr. Nasiri on Thursday evening.

Still, Ms. Heimert, who edited the book, acknowledged that other parts of the story, particularly his account of training at camps in Afghanistan in the mid-1990s, were impossible to confirm. To vet those parts, she gave the manuscript to Michael Scheuer, a former senior intelligence officer at the Central Intelligence Agency who was the head of a unit that focused on Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda.

“I’ve never seen anything from that period that was so complete and rang so true,” Mr. Scheuer said in a telephone interview. “It really tied together and resonated with the information we had in classified form.”

Representatives of the French, British, and German intelligence services declined to comment on whether they had links to Mr. Nasiri.

One official in the German domestic intelligence agency, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the agency had had contact with Mr. Nasiri but questioned the value of the intelligence he provided.

Mr. Nasiri’s original motive for writing, he said, was revenge. He said that after seven years of dangerous work, principally for the Directorate General of External Security in France, he felt hung out to dry by the Western agencies.

The bombings of two American Embassies in East Africa in 1998 left Mr. Nasiri appalled by the violence of Islamic terrorism but also uncomfortable at the role of the West, according to the book. He decided to ask his intelligence contacts to help him get a fresh start in Germany, where he had a new wife. He had no money and no false identity with which to seek a decent job.

They offered him scant help, he said. “They put me in a tough place, and I wanted to put them in a tough place,” said Mr. Nasiri, who has graying hair — he says he is in his mid-40s — and a manner that is by turns charming and combative.

Certainly he is unsparing about the spy services. The French, he writes, are ruthless but professional, and the British parochial, concerned only about attacks in their own country.

Despite being suffused with Islamic theory and culture, “Inside Jihad” reads like a John le Carré novel. It is replete with tales of phony passports, envelopes stuffed with cash and cloak-and-dagger meetings in various European capitals. “I’m scared that I did some of these things, but at the time, I lived it like it was a totally normal life,” he said.

Life for Mr. Nasiri went off the rails early. Raised in a broken family in Brussels and Tangier, Morocco, he fell into drug dealing and gun running. Through an older brother, Mr. Nasiri said, he came into contact with a radical set and began procuring guns and ammunition for a militant Algerian organization, the Armed Islamic Group.

After he was caught stealing money from the people he was working with, he writes, he turned to French intelligence agents for protection. He says he became a valuable source of information on the militants who passed through his mother’s home. Several were arrested and jailed by the Belgian police in the raid in March 1995.

Fearful of staying in Europe and inspired to become a warrior for Islam, Mr. Nasiri proposed to go to Afghanistan, where young Muslims were being trained in camps. The French agreed and gave him money to fly to Pakistan via Turkey, he said.

On his way to Afghanistan, he said, he met Abu Zubaida, a Palestinian who acted as a gatekeeper to some of the camps. The American authorities later identified Abu Zubaida as a senior figure in Al Qaeda.

Despite his proximity to such figures, Mr. Nasiri attests that he did not take part directly in terror.

Mr. Nasiri’s account of the camps is detailed and chilling. Recruits were drilled in the manufacture and use of sophisticated explosives, as well as in the Koran. It was there, Mr. Nasiri said, that he concluded that those mujahedeen had gone dangerously astray in their faith.

Even now, though, Mr. Nasiri seems conflicted. He does not, for example, flatly condemn suicide bombers. “How can I say that these young, educated Muslims who blow themselves up in Baghdad are stupid?” he said.

Much like the spies of fiction, Mr. Nasiri wants to put a principled veneer on what was essentially a dirty game. He says he wrote the book to help people in the West understand the rage in the Islamic world. Equally, he wants to rescue Muslims from their “degraded” state.

Yet there is also the money — an advance in the “low six figures,” according to an executive at Basic Books — and a promotional blitz that includes interviews with CNN and the “CBS Evening News.”

“If I sell a million copies I will enjoy it — before they start shooting at me,” Mr. Nasiri said with a strained laugh.
523 2006-11-17 Mr. McCain, speaking here to the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group, said the outcome did not represent a rejection of “our values and governing philosophy.”

“On the contrary, I think they rejected us because they felt we had come to value our incumbency over our principle,” he said. “And partisanship, from both parties, was no longer a contest of ideas, but an ever cruder and uncivil brawl over the spoils of power.

“Americans had elected us to change government, and they rejected us because they believed government had changed us,” he said. “We must spend the next two years reacquainting the public and ourselves with the reason we came to office in the first place: to serve a cause greater than our self-interest.”

One of Mr. McCain’s political tasks as he considers a presidential campaign has been to reinforce his standing with conservatives. Mr. McCain has found himself at odds with conservative leaders in opposing the call for immigration measures to prevent illegal immigrants from attaining citizenship.

In his talks, to the Federalist Society and to Gopac, a conservative political action committee, Mr. McCain addressed a subject that has distressed many conservatives about Republicans — the galloping deficit and increases in spending.

“Last year, a Republican Congress passed a highway bill with 6,371 special projects costing the taxpayers 24 billion dollars,” he said at Gopac, drawing light applause. “Those and other earmarks passed by a Republican Congress included $50 million for an indoor rainforest, $500,000 for a teapot museum; $350,000 for an Inner Harmony Foundation and Wellness Center; and of course, as you all know, $223 million for a bridge to nowhere. I didn’t see these projects in the fine print of the Contract with America, and neither did the voters.”

But Mr. McCain also used the talks to reiterate his position on Iraq, urging Washington not to take the wrong lesson from the election, and arguing that the way to success was through increased troop strength.

“In no other time are we more morally obliged to speak the truth to our country, as we best see it, than in a time of war,” he said. “So let me say this, without additional combat forces we will not win this war.”

“As troubling as it is, I can ask a young marine to go back to Iraq,” he said. “What I cannot do is ask him to return to Iraq, to risk life and limb, so that we might delay our defeat for a few months or a year. That is more to ask than patriotism requires.”

Mr. McCain was not without humor on Thursday. “In the words of Chairman Mao,” he said, “it’s always darkest before it’s totally black.” His audience laughed.
524 2006-11-17 Another record price was paid for Clyfford Still’s “1947-R-No.1,” a brilliant red painting considered one of the artist’s best works. Six bidders went after the work, which sold to an unidentified telephone bidder for $21.2 million, more than three times its $7 million high estimate.

The sale was filled with works by Warhol and de Kooning, and bidders heartily fought over the best of them. Even Warhol topped previous prices when his 1972 “Mao” was sold to Joseph Lau, a Hong Kong collector, for $17.3 million, far above its $12 million high estimate. Measuring 82 by 61 inches, it is one of a series of 10 large hand-painted and silk-screened canvases with brush strokes so bright that the Chinese leader seemed to be wearing lipstick and eye shadow.

“Mao” was only one familiar Warhol image that brought a high price. A decade earlier, Warhol had become obsessed with Marilyn Monroe and produced 12 single images of the actress. On Wednesday, one with a bright orange background, estimated at $10 million to $15 million, was snapped up by a telephone bidder for $16.2 million. And his 1964 “Sixteen Jackies,” images of Jacqueline Kennedy before her husband’s assassination and then in mourning, brought $15.6 million. David Pincus, a Philadelphia collector, was the seller. Andrew Fabricant, a Manhattan dealer, bought the painting for an unidentified American collector.

Warhol wasn’t the only Pop artist whose work brought high prices. Lichtenstein’s “Yellow and White Brushstrokes,” a 1965 black, white and yellow image of a fresh, still dripping swath of paint, brought $9.5 million, just below its high estimate. The buyer, Robert Mnuchin of the Manhattan gallery L&M Arts, was sitting with Stephen Swid, a financier and Guggenheim Museum trustee, and it appeared Mr. Mnuchin was bidding for him.

Two works on paper by de Kooning brought staggeringly different results. “Woman (Seated Woman I),” a 1952 charcoal, oil and graphite drawing on paper executed on the heels of the artist’s famous painting “Woman I,” was expected to bring $3.5 million to $4.5 million. Four people tried to buy the drawing, and it ended up selling to a telephone bidder for $9.6 million, a record for a de Kooning on paper. By contrast, “Two Women II,” a double-figured drawing created the same year, was expected to bring $3.5 million to $4.5 million. But nobody went for it, and bidding stopped at $2.9 million.

After the sale, as the audience was pouring out into Rockefeller Center, Mr. Murakami could be spotted looking at the crowd. Wearing baggy blue jeans and a down vest, his hair tied back in his signature bun, he said he found the evening “really fun.”

“It was very exciting,” the artist added. “Next time I want to bid.”

Mr. Murakami was accompanied by Philippe Ségalot, a Manhattan dealer, who pronounced the evening “fantastic” and added, “It was so amazing one can only wonder where it can go from here.”
525 2006-11-17 Following this model, the National Institute of Mental Health should coordinate and subsidize a national network of depression centers, ideally based at research universities with good hospitals and departments devoted to the subject.

The University of Michigan, host to the country’s first national depression center, which opened its doors last month, has been a pioneer in this regard. More than 135 experts on depression and bipolar disorder will collaborate there, about half of them psychiatrists. The center has a large clinical treatment program and a genetic database that will house samples from tens of thousands of depressed and bipolar patients. It is sponsoring social and biological research and pressing for policy initiatives related to mental illness.

Among the thousands of depressed people I have met with, the majority have sought treatment but feel that they are not getting good care. Many of them have been prescribed antidepressants by family doctors who lack training in psychiatry and have conducted only cursory interviews before rendering their diagnoses. Antidepressants vary in their chemistry and effects; and human brains vary as much as human minds. To treat the most complicated organ in the body appropriately demands considerable expertise.

The question I am asked most frequently is how to get better care, and it can be devilishly hard to answer. Depression centers that could deliver a high standard of comprehensive care would be a dream come true — not only for millions of depressives, but also for the research community.

Last winter, the Library of Congress organized a conference where theoreticians met with mental-health consumer advocates and clinicians. The combination was unusual and wonderful. Everyone left with fresh ideas. We need formal bodies to sustain such fruitful intimacy.

Research related to a major disease should not unfold in a purely intellectual context, nor should consumer advocacy exist solely in a lobbying context, nor clinical practice exclusively under the shadow of profit-driven pharmaceutical research. (Full disclosure: my father is the chief executive of a pharmaceutical company that manufactures antidepressants.)

Before the cancer centers came around, cancer was as taboo as depression is now. But as antibiotics and vaccines for other illnesses lengthened life expectancy, cancer became more pervasive and less shameful. Depression, too, is becoming more widespread and more frequently diagnosed. Depression and bipolar illness will affect some 20 percent of Americans during their lives, and yet the stigma endures. People often come up to me after lectures to whisper about their affliction, as though everyone else in the room weren’t grappling with precisely the same thing.

It is neither wise nor feasible for a large proportion of the population to be trying to keep a secret. A national network that helped to medicalize depression in the public imagination would reduce sufferers’ shame. The very waiting rooms of depression centers would provide incontrovertible proof of the ubiquity of the illness and ease the isolation of sufferers. Within the centers, patients would find themselves the focus of an elite community of insight and support.

Alleviating stigma will also make it harder for insurance companies to deny treatment. As it is established that these mental illnesses are not character defects, but instead can be characterized in terms of brain symptoms, the false distinctions between them and cancer or heart disease will become impossible to sustain. The fiscal irresponsibility of leaving untreated an illness that causes enormous loss of productive work years would be clearly demonstrated.

We’ve made stellar progress in treating mental illness since the Prozac revolution but there is a catastrophic divide between research and practice. We must come up with a seamless way to support scientific progress and to administer the treatments we have, in order ultimately to alleviate as much suffering as possible.
526 2006-11-17 Gen. John P. Abizaid, in his Congressional testimony, discussed new plans by American commanders to improve the training of Iraqi troops, perhaps increasing our troops there by a small amount to accomplish this task.

For several years now, the American public has been told that as we enable the Iraqi troops to stand up, we can stand down. But we seem as yet to have accomplished little toward achieving this goal.

Could it be that the fundamental ingredient needed for success is missing, the loyalty of these troops to the central government?

Could it be that our training will be used, or perhaps is already being used, by a large fraction of the trained troops to further one or another sectarian group, with our provided arms used similarly?

Why is there seemingly little or no discussion of this key issue and its possible consequences by our top officials and the media?

“Get Out Now? Not So Fast, Some Experts Say” (military analysis, front page, Nov. 15) highlights the difficulty of coming up with an exit strategy for Iraq when none of our political, military and foreign policy experts can agree that exit is our goal.

It is not clear that either the Bush administration or its critics want to get out of Iraq entirely. If the idea is simply to draw down troops or to reduce our profile in Iraq, this is bound to fail.

There are groups in Iraq that will never accept our presence, no matter how small and benign it may appear to us. If we are unwilling to recognize that we are the problem, that the violence and bloodshed stem from our presence, we will never find a solution.

There is only one way out of Iraq. It won’t be found with troop buildups or with partial drawdowns and redeployments, which put those troops left behind in only greater peril. No. The only way out of Iraq is the same way we got in: to march our troops and their equipment right back to Kuwait, in the very same way the Soviets marched out of Afghanistan.

Anything short of that simply protracts the agony of this failed venture. Lowell Flanders

Re “Get Out Now? Not So Fast, Some Experts Say” (military analysis, front page, Nov. 15):

The debate over withdrawal from Iraq is quite underwhelming, as there is no consideration of what we want Iraq to look like when we leave.

The expressed goal of a free and democratic Iraq has little substance. Our biggest problem is that the debated options — phased withdrawal or an increase in troop levels — represent tactical, not strategic, moves.

Like it or not, only Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s proposal to split Iraq into three regions represents a strategy. His plan is based on what Iraq actually looks like: a place where loyalty to one’s tribe is more powerful than loyalty to Iraq.

Your Nov. 15 military analysis prefigures the kind of advice we can expect from the Iraq Study Group and thus the likely direction of United States policy in the new era of divided government. But our leaders will eventually have to recognize that our presence in Iraq is not part of the solution; it is the root of the problem.

As long as we are there, any Iraqi government will be weak and will be seen as illegitimate because it depends on American military force.

There will surely be instability after we leave, and the outcome will not be what we might desire. But staying there virtually guarantees a continuing slide into civil war.
527 2006-11-17 No stage, no movie, no tape can improve on the imagination when Dickens tells a story. (Well, except for the 1951 “Christmas Carol” movie with Alastair Sim as Scrooge.) The power of Dickens’s prose is like that of the sea, ceaseless and penetrating, as it obliterates vagrant thoughts, insistent that every detail be visualized and each emotion felt.

When a family and children’s theater presents a play based on Dickens’s novel “Great Expectations” — the tale of Pip, a poor, uneducated orphan who grows up, with the help of a secret benefactor, to be a gentleman, only to realize guiltily that he has become a snob — the hope is that the mystery, passion and excitement of the book will translate into the 80 minutes allotted (no intermission).

All looked tempting at the Lucille Lortel Theater in Greenwich Village, where the Theatreworks/USA production, directed by Will Pomerantz, has the star power of the award-winning actress Kathleen Chalfant. It was foggy in the auditorium, putty-colored tarps covering bulky mounds visible on the stage in the gloom. “They’ve added a smoke machine,” an usher said. There were at least 20 children in the audience for the play, which the company recommends for those 10 and older. Soon the cloths would be dramatically pulled off the scenery as the 19th-century characters portrayed by 10 actors took their places, the women especially well set off by Carol Bailey’s costumes.

But Bathsheba Doran’s play is too compressed, making drab work out of genius. Ideas and language become shorthand as truncated scenes fly by, and Ms. Doran, as if explaining Dickens, too often elaborates unnecessarily what his deep understanding of human behavior makes plain.

Ms. Chalfant, of course, is Miss Havisham, the nightmare jilted bride in her shroud of a wedding dress and coffin of a house who hasn’t seen the sun for decades, ever since her suitor absconded with part of her fortune. The sickly joy with which she grooms her coldly beautiful adopted daughter, Estella, to break the heart of every man, including young Pip’s, should be frightening in its Frankenstein-like echoes. Instead, Ms. Chalfant, who was so excellent in “Wit” and “Angels in America,” seems more like an annoyed supervisor whose underlings have failed to meet a quota. Only when Pip has grown up, and she begs his forgiveness, do emotions and drama become congruent.

While a number of the actors played multiple parts, most excelled at only one of them: Paul Niebanck, as Pip’s brother-in-law, Joe the blacksmith, was convincing in his humble honesty; as Estella, Kristen Bush, a Scarlett Johansson look-alike, struck fire from ice; Christian Campbell’s young Pip was more believable and touching than his adult version; and John Joseph Gallagher’s convict, Magwich, whom Pip once helped, was most moving in his final scene.
528 2006-11-17 The military successfully test-fired a new version of Pakistan's Ghauri missile, or Hatf-5, which is capable of carrying nuclear warheads as far as 800 miles. The test followed a new accord between Pakistan and India. The countries often fire miss...
529 2006-11-17 McCULLOH--Diane Joan (nee Tisher) Born August 19, 1936. Died November 14, 2006. Funeral services will be held Saturday November 18, 10am at John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave, between 69th and 70th. (212)744-3084. In lieu of flowers, the fami...
530 2006-11-17 WEISSMAN--Harold. The Hunter College School of Social Work deeply mourns the loss of our dear colleague, Dr. Harold Weissman--teacher, author, former doctoral chair and acting dean. His wisdom, creativity and humor enriched us all. He will be deep...
531 2006-11-17 SIMPSON BOOK -- The publisher of the book from O.J. Simpson, in which he hypothesizes about how he could have committed the 1994 murder of his wife, said that she was told the advance and royalties for the book would go to Mr. Simpson's children, ...
532 2006-11-17 To the Editor:     Re ''General Warns of Risks in Iraq if G.I.'s Are Cut'' (front page, Nov. 16):     Sounds like ''stay the course'' to me. We all know how well that has worked out.      We seem to be in a perpetual state of the ''critical next s...
533 2006-11-17 Most of the general managers scurried out of town Thursday afternoon, a little ahead of schedule. But during the meetings here they made several free-agent signings that heralded a free-spending winter.      The biggest splash came overseas, in Ja...
534 2006-11-18 Smiling and appearing confident, Ségolène Royal began her battle to become the first woman to be president of France after her Socialist Party overwhelmingly chose her over two male rivals as its candidate in April’s election. “The world has changed,” she said in Poitou-Charentes, where she is regional president. “France has moved. Now politics must change. I not only want to incarnate that profound change, but to build it with you.” Her opponent is expected to be Nicolas Sarkozy, the interior minister. One of his closest lieutenants, Patrick Devedjan, said the mainstream right needed to move swiftly to counteract the early appeal of Ms. Royal. “There is no time to lose,” he said.
535 2006-11-18 Judge O’Grady issued his ruling from the bench in Alexandria, Va., where he sits and where the trial is scheduled to begin on Jan. 29. The ruling means that when Mr. Kristof testifies during the trial on behalf of The Times, he may not cite any information he may have received from the two confidential sources as substantiation for the columns.

How much of a setback the ruling is for The Times is unclear and probably depends on how much other substantiation Mr. Kristof and the newspaper may present to counter Dr. Hatfill’s assertions. Five people died in the anthrax attacks. Although federal authorities identified Dr. Hatfill as “a person of interest” in the case, they have not charged him with any crimes.

Mr. Kristof’s columns were about a government scientist he initially referred to as Mr. Z, someone he said had become the overwhelming focus of the investigation. In August 2002, he wrote that Dr. Hatfill had acknowledged he was Mr. Z at a news conference in which he said he had been mistreated by the news media.

Because the lawsuit is a civil action, not a criminal one, there was no consideration of anyone being ordered to jail as has happened in some recent criminal investigations. Instead, the judge said he fashioned the remedy to ensure that Dr. Hatfill was not disadvantaged by the use of information obtained by The Times from sources it would not identify and thus subject to examination.

Judge O’Grady had written earlier that for Dr. Hatfill to meet his burden of demonstrating he was defamed, he needed “an opportunity to question the confidential sources and determine if Mr. Kristof accurately reported information the sources provided.”

In preparation for the start of the trial, Dr. Hatfill was deposed Friday by lawyers for The Times.

The lawsuit was originally dismissed by a federal judge in Virginia in 2004, who ruled that the columns were not defamatory and only reported on the existence of an investigation. A divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., reinstated the case, and the full appeals court, by a 6-to-6 vote, declined to overturn that ruling. The Supreme Court declined to intervene last March.
536 2006-11-18 BOULDER, Colo., Nov. 14 — Voters in this liberal college town have approved what environmentalists say may be the nation’s first “carbon tax,” intended to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases.

The tax, to take effect on April 1, will be based on the number of kilowatt-hours used. Officials say it will add $16 a year to an average homeowner’s electricity bill and $46 for businesses.

City officials said the revenue from the tax — an estimated $6.7 million by 2012, when the goal is to have reduced carbon emissions by 350,000 metric tons — would be collected by the main gas and electric utility, Xcel Energy, and funneled through the city’s Office of Environmental Affairs.

The tax is to pay for the “climate action plan,” efforts to “increase energy efficiency in homes and buildings, switch to renewable energy and reduce vehicle miles traveled,” the city’s environmental affairs manager, Jonathan Koehn, said.

The goal is to reduce the carbon levels to 7 percent less than those in 1990, which amounts to a 24 percent reduction from current levels, Mr. Koehn said.
537 2006-11-18 Only a few weeks ago the young Israeli pianist Benjamin Hochman made his New York recital debut, an event that augured well for his future prospects. And here he was again, sharing a duo piano program on Wednesday night with Jonathan Biss, a slightly younger New York pianist whose swift ascent in recent years has proved that a gifted artist can still make an impression, even in a supersaturated field.

In works composed for piano four hands or for two pianos, comparing performers is rarely the point. Still, the contrast between these artists, who played at the 92nd Street Y, was notable in Mozart’s Sonata in F (K. 497). At the upper end of the keyboard, Mr. Biss was effusive, shaping the performance with an impetuous push and pull that lent the work a Romantic cast. Mr. Hochman was subdued by comparison, offering warmly voiced counterpoint and primly executed trills.

If the performance sometimes verged on unruliness, the unanimity of expression that these players demonstrated was remarkable. That impression lingered in a tidier account of Schubert’s Fantasie in F minor (D. 940), which revealed the mature composer at his most melodically generous, including a charming “Hungarian” opening and a melodious Largo. Mindful of the format, Schubert concluded the piece with scampering counterpoint and a climactic fugue.

Schumann’s Six Pieces in Canonic Form were composed for the pedal piano, an archaic instrument with an organlike pedal board, but Mr. Biss and Mr. Hochman played Debussy’s arrangement for two pianos. The opening and closing pieces offered a gossamer patter reminiscent of Bach’s keyboard music, while the warm luminescence of the second piece and the amorous dialogue of the fourth were pure Schumann.

All of those pieces were intended for domestic performances. But Mr. Biss and Mr. Hochman closed their program with a rollicking account of a boisterous piece composed for public display, Bartok’s Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion. They were joined by James Dietz, a timpanist of elegant technique and an accurate ear for negotiating the composer’s tricky tuning changes, and Ayano Kataoka, a lithe blur of motion as she bustled from cymbals to gong, snare drum to xylophone.
538 2006-11-18 There are bad days, and then there are bad days. As Job, a prosperous, gregarious man living in biblical times, is napping after a dinner party, messengers begin arriving.

One tells him that an earthquake has destroyed his iron mines in Lebanon. The next informs him that his shipyards in Alexandria have collapsed. “I’m going to go to the office and straighten everything out,” Job tells his guests.

Luckily he has insurance on his holdings, through Caesar. Unfortunately a third messenger arrives, with news of a military coup and Caesar’s death. Then Job learns that all four of his children have died.

The biblical Job, faced with these disasters, agonized but never cursed God. The Job in Hanoch Levin’‘s “Job’s Passion,” now at Theater for the New City, quickly announces his conclusion that God does not exist. Although the play sometimes flaunts irreverence for irreverence’s sake (the vomit metaphor is particularly hideous), this dizzying array of images finds both humor and rich meaning in misery.

Mr. Levin, who was 55 when he died in 1999, spent much of his career getting on the nerves of would-be censors in Israel, where he was born, lived and worked. His 1982 play, “The Patriot,” depicted a Jewish settler shooting a Palestinian. “You, Me and the Next War” (1968) questioned Israel’s self-congratulatory militaristic self-image, and “The Queen of the Bathtub” (1970) ridiculed Prime Minister Golda Meir.

In “Job’s Passion” (1981), which benefits from lively direction by David Paul Willinger and clever translation by Shay Azoulay, it may seem that Mr. Levin has gone to an awful lot of trouble just to declare God’s nonexistence. But the play is also an indictment of humanity. (If some entity created us, it wouldn’t necessarily want to stick around and take credit.) And the play suggests that persecuting people for their religious beliefs is both awful and inevitable.

Mr. Levin combines the stories of Job and Jesus, having Job (Primy Rivera in an excruciatingly brave performance) sentenced to death by a particularly painful method of impalement. So much for the nobility of suffering.
539 2006-11-18 The following is a sampling of independently owned shops on Long Island.

LONDON JEWELERS Americana Manhasset, (516) 627-7475. London Jewelers was opened by Charles London 80 years ago in Glen Cove. Mark and Candy Udell and their children, Randi and Scott, continue the legacy, with additional stores in Manhasset, Greenvale, East Hampton and Southampton. The posh shops carry the finest gems and most prestigious jewelry and watch brands — names like Rolex, Cartier, Van Cleef and Arpels, and David Yurman — to delight even the most discriminating clients.

ESTELLE’S 1600 Broadhollow Road, Farmingdale, (631) 420-0890. Marty Schlossberg and Estelle Rosenthal started this women’s clothing emporium in 1992 with 85 dressy dresses, all priced at $59, on one rack in a hard-to-find warehouse in Farmingdale. Estelle’s is now housed in a 37,000-square-foot former car showroom on Route 110 and is stocked with 30,000 to 40,000 moderately priced dresses. It sold 17,000 prom dresses last year and does a whopping business in sweet-16 and quinceañera celebrations.

TEMPTATIONS FOR HER 3175 Long Beach Road, Oceanside, (516) 678-1150. Randi Kombert-Grann, who started this women’s contemporary sportswear and accessories boutique 21 years ago, clothes her customers, whom she knows by first name, from head to toe with a custom look. Temptations also carries high-rise, mid-rise and low-rise jeans as well as couture wide-leg pants and contemporary straight-leg pants in Oceanside and in Merrick. “We can dress 25-year-olds, and we can dress 75-year-olds. and we do phenomenally in between,” Ms. Kombert-Grann said.

DEBRA CANAVAN CLASSICS 53 Main Street, Sayville, (631) 563-9385. This women’s apparel boutique is a bit pricey but has exquisite clothing, especially gowns. This is a place to get a dress for a fancy corporate holiday party, benefit ball or wedding.

VICTOR TALBOTS 47 Glen Cove Road, Greenvale, (516) 625-1787. Victor Scognamiglio’s men’s boutique is for the guy who wants to look like Clark Gable. It offers high-end formal evening attire, dinner and smoking jackets, bowties, dinner ties, cummerbund sets and custom shirts, suits, ties and shoes by luxury brands like Brioni, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Kiton and Oxxford. Victor Talbots also offers rental tuxedos, dinner jackets, suits, top hats and canes.
540 2006-11-18 Fire broke out at a power plant serving the main terminal at Lambert St. Louis International Airport, jamming air and street traffic around the airport in the afternoon. The authorities are investigating the cause of the fire, which disabled the t...
541 2006-11-18 Smiling and appearing confident, Ségolène Royal began her battle to become the first woman to be president of France after her Socialist Party overwhelmingly chose her over two male rivals as its candidate in April's election. ''The world has ch...
542 2006-11-19 A reader wins the egghead award for sorting out a century old question about "The Game"...
543 2006-11-19 Last week, Mr. Litvinenko told reporters he began to feel sick within hours of the meeting with Mario.

“I ordered lunch but he ate nothing,” Mr. Litvinenko said, according to The Sunday Times, which apparently interviewed him after he began to feel ill but before his condition deteriorated. “He appeared to be very nervous. He handed me a four-page document which he said he wanted me to read right away.”

“It contained a list of people, including F.S.B. officer, who were purported to be connected with the journalist’s murder,” he said. The F.S.B., or Federal Security Service, is the successor to the K.G.B.

“I do feel very bad,” Mr. Litvinenko told The Sunday Times. “I’ve never felt like this before — like my life is hanging on the ropes.”

In a telephone interview, Boris Berezovsky, an exiled Russian tycoon and foe of President Putin, said he had visited Mr. Litvinenko in the hospital and found him “damaged terribly.”

Mr. Berezovsky said Mr. Litvinenko had been granted British citizenship, so the poisoning was “a terror attack against a British citizen in Britain.” The incident, he pointed out, could create a problem for Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has sought to cultivate close ties with Mr. Putin.

A police spokeswoman, speaking on the condition of anonymity under police rules, said specialist police officers were “investigating a suspicious poisoning.” She described Mr. Litvinenko’s condition as “serious but stable.”

John Henry, a clinical toxicologist who has been treating Mr. Litvinenko, told the BBC: “He’s got a prospect of recovering. He’s a got a prospect of dying.”

Mr. Henry, who in 2004 treated President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine, who was poisoned with dioxin, identified the suspected poison in the Litvinenko case as thallium, a toxic metal used in rat poison and insecticides. “It is tasteless, colorless and odorless,” he said. “It takes about a gram to kill you.”

Andres Virchis, a physician at Barnet Hospital in north London where Mr. Litvinenko was first treated, said Sunday that his bone marrow had failed and that he was not producing any normal immune cells or white cells.

As Mr. Litvinenko’s condition worsened, he began to lose his hair, Dr. Virchis said.

Mr. Litvinenko was granted asylum in Britain in 2001 after leaving Russia six years ago. In 2003 he published a book, “The F.S.B. Blows up Russia,” accusing the Russian secret service of orchestrating a wave of explosions in apartment houses in 1999 that led to the second Chechen war.

He also claimed familiarity with the techniques of the Russian secret service. At the time of the poisoning of Mr. Yushchenko, Mr. Litvinenko said that a secret K.G.B. laboratory in Moscow, still operated by the F.S.B., specialized in the study of poisons.

“The view inside our agency was that poison is just a weapon, like a pistol,” said Mr. Litvinenko, who served in both agencies, from 1988 to 1999. “It’s not seen that way in the West, but it was just viewed as an ordinary tool.”

The accounts of intrigue could not be confirmed.

Alex Goldfarb, a friend who had visited Mr. Litvinenko in the hospital, told the BBC that doctors had told him that he had only a 50-50 chance of surviving. “He looks like a ghost,” Mr. Goldfarb said.

Speaking later to reporters outside London’s University College Hospital, to which Mr. Litvinenko had been transferred, Mr. Goldfarb said the British police interviewed Mr. Litvinenko on Sunday.

“He is in a fighting mood,” Mr. Goldfarb said. Asked why Mr. Litvinenko might have been the target of an attack, Mr. Goldfarb said, “He is one of the top public enemies of the Russian F.S.B. and of Putin, particularly because of his book.”

He added that Mr. Litvinenko belonged to “the so-called London émigré circle, which was branded by Russia a terrorist cell on British soil.”

Mr. Goldfarb called the poisoning “very scary — it means there’s no limit.”
544 2006-11-19 Mr. Kissinger, in the BBC interview, said the United States must open talks with Iraq’s neighbors, pointedly including Iran, if progress is to be achieved in Iraq. Mr. Bush has said the United States is ready for such talks, but only if Iran moves to halt its nuclear enrichment work. American officials say low-level talks with Syria have produced little progress.

But Mr. Kissinger also said that a hasty withdrawal from Iraq would have “disastrous consequences,” leaving not only Iraq but neighboring countries with large Shiite populations destabilized for years.

He said the United States would probably have to plot a road between military victory and total withdrawal.

The comments reflected a markedly more pessimistic view than Mr. Kissinger has expressed publicly in the past. The book “State of Denial” by Bob Woodward quotes Mr. Kissinger as saying in September 2005 that the only exit strategy for Iraq was victory.

Analysts of the Pentagon, State Department and other agencies are working feverishly to complete a report for the White House meant to lay out American options in Iraq.

They hope to do so before a much-awaited review from the bipartisan commission headed by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, which is expected by mid-December. The Baker group has sought Kissinger’s advice.

As those projects go forward, three proposals — not necessarily mutually exclusive — have emerged, and today senior lawmakers argued them all: to quickly begin a phased troop withdrawal as a means to compel the Iraqi government to seize greater responsibilities, to temporarily increase American troop strength to bolster security before initiating a withdrawal, and to engage Iraq’s neighbors in talks aimed at halting their support for unrest in Iraq.

Mr. McCain, a respected figure on military matters who is exploring a presidential bid in 2008, has argued before for more troops, and he made the case passionately today.

“I believe the consequences of failure are catastrophic,” McCain told ABC News. “It will spread to the region. You will see Iran more emboldened.”

Mr. Graham, a fellow member of the Armed Services Committee, had hinted Wednesday, when his committee questioned General John P. Abizaid, commander of American forces in the Middle East, that he backed McCain; and he made this clear today.

“We need an overwhelming presence in Iraq for the short term,” he told CBS News.

General Abizaid said Wednesday that while the American military could find an additional 20,000 troops for a short deployment, the nation’s ability to stay longer was “simply not something that we have right now with the size of the Army and the Marine corps.”

Mr. Graham said he disagreed with Mr. Kissinger about the impossibility of a military victory in Iraq. But as someone who was able to visit the open-air markets of Baghdad to buy a rug on his first Iraq visit — but had to travel in a tank during his latest — Mr. Graham said that matters were “absolutely” worse.

Mr. Kissinger said that a rapid withdrawal could have “disastrous consequences.”

“If you withdraw all the forces without any international understanding and without any even partial solution of some of the problems, civil war in Iraq will take on even more violent forms and achieve dimensions that are probably exceeding those that brought us into Yugoslavia with military force,” he said.

Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, a Democrat who will become chairman of the Armed Services Committee when the new Congress convenes in January, has led the calls for a phased withdrawal, to begin within months, as a way to jolt Iraqi leaders into grasping greater control.

“If you don’t do that, they’re going to continue to have the false assumption that we’re there in some kind of open-ended way,” he said today on CNN.

But a phased withdrawal could leave Iraq perilously vulnerable, military analysts say, not just to internal violence but to its neighbors — Iran, Syria and possibly even Turkey, should it decide to send forces into the north of Iraq to pursue Kurdish guerrillas.

A growing number of lawmakers, and reportedly the Baker commission, favor intense direct negotiations with those neighbors to ensure their cooperation.

Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic presidential candidate in 2004, cited Mr. Kissinger’s own negotiations with the North Vietnamese in arguing for engagement with Iran and Syria.

“If you pursue legitimate diplomacy, the way Henry Kissinger did when he made multiple trips, night after night, day after day, twisting arms, working; if you make the effort that Jim Baker did to build a legitimate coalition, I’m confident we can do what’s necessary to get the neighborhood — and I include in that Iran and Syria — to take greater stakes,” Mr. Kerry told Fox News.

Mr. McCain said he was not against talks with Syria and Iran, but questioned whether Iran had sufficient reason to cooperate. “Iranians are on the ascendancy if we fail” in Iraq, he said, “so it’s going to be very difficult to find common interests.”

Several conservatives who had strongly supported the war have since fallen out with the administration.

One of them, Kenneth Adelman, a former assistant secretary of defense, said on CNN that the management of the war “just breaks your heart.”

Mr. Adelman, who had famously predicted that the invasion of 2003 would be a “cakewalk,” criticized the decisions that allowed widespread looting after the fall of Baghdad, as well as the dismissals of Iraqi military and civilian officials.

He is no longer on speaking terms with Vice President Dick Cheney, according to The Washington Post, which quoted him in an article today as saying: “This didn’t have to be managed this bad. It’s awful.”
545 2006-11-19 “There’s no excuse,” Nets Coach Lawrence Frank said. “It’s hard to explain. I don’t know. We have to re-evaluate and see what we’re doing, because this is the second time coming off of a back-to-back where the other team is more prepared than we are.”

Last Sunday, the Nets won a gritty overtime game in Washington against the Wizards. At home the following night, the Nets trailed by 18 points after one quarter against the Seattle SuperSonics, who went on to control the game and win.

It was a 24-hour span similar to what the Nets just endured.

On Friday night, the Nets beat the Pacers in Indianapolis. Against Portland on Saturday, the Nets showed little fight from the start.

The Blazers, who lost at Boston on Friday, were also playing their second game in two nights.

The Nets were the more experienced team. Only one player in Portland’s starting lineup, Zach Randolph, has at least three full seasons of N.B.A. experience. The Blazers also had four major contributors out because of injuries.

The Nets missed their first eight shots and tied a franchise low for first-quarter points, with 8. They could not solve the Blazers’ zone defense.

The Nets’ first points of the game did not come until nearly five minutes in, when Carter made a driving layup. The Nets had good looks. Several of their misses were from point-blank range and they also missed open outside shots.

The Nets scored only 26 points in the first half, 15 fewer than their lowest total for a half this season.

“I don’t think we had the energy, and we didn’t play to win,” Carter said.

The Blazers were uncharacteristically accurate on offense early in the game, making seven of their first eight shots. They jumped to an 18-3 lead midway through the first quarter.

“We got them into the tempo we wanted to play,” said Randolph, who led his team with 20 points. “We slowed them down and they didn’t get to run.”

Last December, the Nets fell to 9-12 after losing a home game to the Charlotte Bobcats. It was the lowest point of their inconsistent start. Saturday night’s game had a similar feel. But the Nets seem to feel much better about themselves this season.

“There are 82 games in the year, and it’s not the last game of the year,” Carter said. “We have plenty more to go.”

Richard Jefferson, who sat out his fifth game Saturday night because of a sprained left ankle, said he did not do any work Saturday. He expects to return to the lineup during the West Coast trip, which starts Monday night in Seattle. ... Nets forward Cliff Robinson left the game with 8 minutes 35 seconds to play in the first half after injuring his left knee. Robinson returned just before halftime and played 12 minutes in the second half. After the game, he said he was unsure how he injured it. He said he would get a magnetic resonance imaging exam Sunday.
546 2006-11-19 He then invoked the late Buckeyes coach Woody Hayes, the cantankerous mentor to Schembechler, who was once an assistant to Hayes. “Woody would have wanted it,” Fowler said.

The plea worked. Sort of. The rear of the crowd ignored it and kept chanting, “O-H! I-O!”

A giant screen near the set then showed Desmond Howard, a “GameDay” contributor and former Michigan receiver who won the 1991 Heisman Trophy, discussing the Schembechler legacy.

Some fans who minutes earlier had tried to hush the shouting transgressors suddenly booed Howard, who is as popular in Columbus as Al Franken is in Bill O’Reilly’s kitchen.

The few minutes with a reduced decibel level made Saturday’s “GameDay” a rarity. More popular than at any point in its 20-year history, “GameDay” is a fairly conventional pregame program mixed with 5,000 to 10,000 intense fans, nearly all loud and excited, some drunk, some sleep deprived.

“I tell people when the circus comes to town, the freaks come out,” said Lee Fitting, the producer of “GameDay.”

He added, “They’re a big factor in what makes the show unique, gives it its energy and spontaneity.”

The freaks in the grass-and-concrete expanse behind the set had painted their faces scarlet and gray. They carried signs, some of which were confiscated by security; some fans smashed one another’s signs. Some wore plastic headgear designed to look like Ohio Stadium. Others wore orange helmets distributed by Home Depot, the program’s primary sponsor. All were shielded from the commentators by at least a dozen off-duty state highway patrol officers.

Male cheerleaders on the ground about 10 feet below the set lifted the females into camera range, giving the effect of young women bobbing into view at different intervals, as if they were floating by.

One fan beyond college age held aloft his hooded effigy of Michigan quarterback Chad Henne wearing droopy maize-colored pants.

Two Ohio State students, Mike Bramlish and Dominic Skinner, had painted their faces and wore shoulder pads accented with gray spikes, their homage to the Buckeyes linebacker James Laurinaitis. His father, Joe, a former professional wrestler known as the Animal, inspired the shoulder gear.

“We do this for every home game,” Bramlish said, his face a canvas of Ohio State colors and Animal makeup designs. Being able to show off on “GameDay,” he added, “just brings the fans more national attention.”

ESPN nearly canceled “GameDay” in the early 1990s, but the decision was reversed after the program started traveling. Eventually, the chemistry between the commentators and campus crazies became too irresistible for ESPN to keep the show off the road.

For a decade, the Fowler-Herbstreit-Corso partnership has provided continuity. Fowler is the strong-willed anchor, one of the best in the business; Herbstreit is the handsome former Buckeyes quarterback whose presence makes snapshot-shooting women shriek and men shout “Her-bie!”; and Corso is the antic former Indiana coach who loves to bait fans into hating him.

“I don’t like it being called a traveling circus or that we’re rock stars,” Fowler said. “But we’re here because we have a passionate feel for what’s going to unfold in the games that day. And it’s a showcase for the people behind us as much as anyone else. It doesn’t look like anything else on TV.”

He added: “We’re doing a performance — we’re playing to them to get them involved. They’re not just a backdrop; their reactions are a little taste of what it’s going to feel like for a visiting team.”

The program encourages fans to be as loud as possible so their decibel level can be measured in a feature sponsored by Energizer. The enormous horde is surveyed by three cameras, including one mounted on a 30-foot-long arm that swoops down on screaming, gesturing fans.

Like any show in the pregame genre, “GameDay” requires great planning, which can be undone by events like Schembechler’s death.

Still, the most anticipated part of the program is the last minute or so, when Corso chooses which team will win the game played on the campus “GameDay” is visiting. Normally, a prediction is a de rigueur element of pregame productions, but for the past 10 years, Corso has punctuated his selection in the final seconds by wearing the mascot head or helmet of the team he favors.

“For the kids watching,” Fitting said, “we could do nothing but the headgear and they’d go crazy.”

On Friday, Corso knew his choice would be Michigan; he gleefully whistled the Wolverines’ fight song.

“It’s serious business when you put the head on,” he said. “The first time I put it on, everyone went crazy.”

On Saturday, he and Howard drove to the Ohio State campus.

“You’ve got to give them a Heisman pose,” Corso said.

“I’ve done a few too many here,” Howard said.

“Do it,” Corso said. “I’ll do it next to you.”

During the final commercial break before “GameDay” ended at noon Eastern time, Michael Corcoran crawled underneath the desk on the set, squeezing between Herbstreit and Corso’s legs. He held a cardboard box containing the blue and maize Michigan helmet.

“It’s a tight squeeze in there,” said Corcoran, who is 5 feet 9 inches. “It’s just part of my job, but I tell all my friends it’s the climax of the show.”

When it was Corso’s moment, Corcoran handed him the helmet, which he pushed over his gray hair. “This is for Bo!” said Corso, now posing like the Heisman Trophy.

Thousands booed, as he had expected.

“He’s a rabble rouser,” said Sergio Tostado, an Ohio State junior, who seemed more disappointed that cameras never put him on the air.

“I feel a bit safer when he picks against us,” said Ryan Kogge, who is also a junior. “He’s old. He’s getting confused.”

Hours later, Corso, surrounded by a cordon of state troopers, plowed his way from the set to the stadium. Just outside the stadium, he picked up a “Go Bucks” placard from the sidewalk, waved it triumphantly to fans who now cheered him, then ripped it into shreds. Again, he was booed.

Then he walked straight onto the field. He explained that the vitriol he invited was not true hatred, but good-natured passion.

But one lesson he has learned about reacting to the passionate fans who curse him, sometimes vilely, is this: “Never turn around.”
547 2006-11-19 During the Vietnam War, about 20 G.I. coffeehouses, as they were known, operated around the country. Each was close to a large military base and was intended to support the efforts of soldiers who were against the war. The coffeehouses were incubators for war resistance and part of the counterculture. Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix were on the jukebox. A decent cup of coffee was on the menu.

“It was extremely important,” said David Zeiger, the writer and director of “Sir! No Sir!” a 2005 documentary about the G.I. movement to end the Vietnam War. “One thing coffeehouses will do is link civilians and soldiers.”

The idea is that the two can meet, learn about movements against the war and talk about the contradictions of what the public hears versus what soldiers have witnessed, he said. In the past, coffeehouse patrons were sometimes subjected to arrests and intimidation. A cafe in Mountain Home, Idaho, was firebombed, and another near Camp Pendleton, Calif., was shot up.

But the main organizer of Watertown’s new coffeehouse, called Different Drummer Internet Cafe, said he did not expect such confrontations this time around. “The military today is very different, and we have to adapt to that,” said Tod Ensign, the organizer, who is also a lawyer and director of Citizen Soldier, a veterans advocacy group in New York City. “The soldiers are all volunteers. The Vietnam protests were driven very much by the draft.”

After Mr. Ensign decided this year to open the coffeehouse, he sent out a few dozen letters asking for financing, including one to the Ben & Jerry’s Foundation. “They talk a lot about peace,” he said.

The appeals went unanswered. Undeterred, he used small donations from activists, farm workers and war resistance leagues to start the project, which he estimates will cost $50,000 a year. He chose Watertown, a city of 27,000 people near the Canadian border and Fort Drum, home of the 10th Mountain Division. The division has deployed more soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan than any other in the Army.

Mr. Ensign has three goals for the cafe. They are to allow the free exchange of ideas, to provide accurate information and to be an enjoyable gathering place, with live bands and karaoke. He and his supporters have not decided whether they will serve coffee.

Most in the community do not seem to know what to make of the cafe, several people said. Watertown’s mayor, Jeffrey E. Graham, said he did not attend its ribbon cutting on Oct. 27. In part, because it was inconvenient and in part because he was not sure of the cafe’s purpose. “I don’t think people want to be openly antiwar for fear of dissing the families that make that sacrifice,” he said. “On the other hand, I don’t see any harm.”

In the cafe’s first three weeks, foot traffic has been minimal. Its manager, Cinthia Mercante, who served for eight years in the military before the Persian Gulf war started, recently found herself calling out to a few soldiers hovering near the entrance: “Folks, you can come in. We won’t bite.”

Paul Foley, a volunteer who works in highway design, said he hoped the community would warm up to the cafe. “There’s been a little talk,” he said. “But the people who come will see that we’re not dangerous rabble-rousers. We’re just giving people a place to talk.”
548 2006-11-19 To complicate matters, consumers wouldn’t know whether the sofa they’re curled up on had been treated with Tris or its cousins. The United States does not require labeling on furniture contents.

All this is not to say that furniture fires don’t pose a danger. According to a recent report from the commission, 560 Americans died in house fires that started in upholstered furniture in 2003. But by contrast, cancer killed more than 500,000.

What makes the potential increased use of chlorinated and brominated fire retardants all the more troubling is that it comes at a time when the risk of furniture fires is receding.

Most fatal furniture fires are caused by cigarettes, which typically smolder for half an hour after being put down. The good news is that after decades of opposition from the cigarette industry, cigarettes that extinguish themselves within minutes are now mandatory in New York State and laws have been passed requiring them in five other states. They are likely to become universal in the United States in the near future, thereby greatly reducing the risk of furniture fires — and the need for chemical treatments.

So why are we still using these potentially dangerous chemicals?

In the United States, chemicals are innocent until proven guilty: we wait until someone has been harmed by exposure to chemicals before regulating them. This is not an effective strategy, since most cancers occur 20 to 40 years after exposure, and are usually caused by multiple agents. Consequently, it’s very difficult to link human cancer to specific chemicals or consumer products.

And there’s another problem: In the United States, the manufacturers of consumer products are not required to disclose the results of toxicity tests to regulators or the public before selling their products.

In marked contrast, the European Union is adopting a “better safe than sorry” philosophy through regulations known as the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals. Manufacturers must demonstrate that their products are safe for people and the environment to introduce them and keep them on the market.

This standard provides a strong incentive for finding new alternatives to potentially dangerous brominated and chlorinated chemicals. An innovative Swedish company, for example, is developing a nontoxic fire retardant, Molecular Heat Eater, derived from oranges and lemons, that prevents fires in plastics and fabrics.

Home fires are a defined danger in the present. Chemical fire retardants pose a more ambiguous risk that can last for decades. We need to consider the larger picture before passing regulations that would put chemical fire retardants inside our pillows and those of our children, who are even more vulnerable to carcinogens. These regulations would lead to the widespread use of fire retardants that could be ultimately much more hazardous to us and our environment than the fires they’re intended to prevent.
549 2006-11-19 Smith Street in Brooklyn, the center of a restaurant renaissance during the past decade, shows no sign of slowing down. Vietnamese, Italian and French cuisines are among the most recent arrivals.

This bright little Vietnamese shop, owned by Hanco Tang, has just a counter and a few tables; the attraction is banh mi, sandwiches on warm, plump, crusty baguettes. The classic combines ground pork, pâté and a Spam-like Vietnamese ham product with mayonnaise and the refreshing crunch of cucumber, daikon and carrots.

Adam Shepard, the chef and a partner, introduced Lunetta’s Italian menu last month. The bold flavors of fresh herbs are emphasized in most of the best dishes. Penne sauced with lamb and a dollop of creamy white ricotta is a one-bowl celebration of rosemary, in which even the strongly flavored braised lamb, tender and deeply caramelized, bows to its dominating perfume.

Mr. Shepard previously served Japanese food with an American accent in the restaurant, when it was called Taku.

Pacifico’s Tex-Mex is messy and cheesy, and fish tacos offer the crunch you would hope for on a beach in Baja.
550 2006-11-19 This, more than anything else, explains why so many free-agent signings turn out to be busts.

Teams pay free agents based largely on what they have just done, in the hope that they will repeat the performance. But the aging process guarantees that teams will be disappointed more often than not.

The last few seasons are full of examples: Richie Sexson of the Seattle Mariners; Jaret Wright, who played for the Yankees but was recently traded to the Orioles; Matt Clement of the Red Sox, among others. While big-budget teams have spent tens of millions of dollars for players starting to decline, teams with smaller payrolls, like the Minnesota Twins, have won by relying on inexpensive players still young enough to be getting better.

On average, batters peak at age 26 or 27, according to Baseball Prospectus, a Web site that publishes a widely read annual guide. By age 31, they are worse than they were at 24, and there is usually no going back. A typical player who has a .300 batting average at age 26 will hit .272 when he is age 32 (and often in the midst of a expensive free-agent contract).

The pattern isn’t quite as strong for pitchers. They develop better control over the course of their careers and walk fewer batters in their late 30s than at any other point, Tom M. Tango, a co-author of “The Book: Playing the Percentages in Baseball,” has found. More are pitching into their 40s today than ever before.

But most are still at their best during their 20s, largely because they strike out more hitters and give up fewer hits than they do later. Perhaps just as important, pitchers in their late 20s, like Matsuzaka, get hurt less often than younger or older pitchers.

Matsuzaka has also come on the market when big-budget teams like the Red Sox are flush with cash, thanks to booming interest in baseball and a new labor agreement that will reduce payments from rich teams to poorer ones. “You are going to see the market go way, way up this winter,” Nate Silver, a Baseball Prospectus writer, said.

For all the money sloshing around, however, this year’s crop of free agents isn’t especially strong. Matsuzaka has never pitched a major-league game before, but he was the most valuable player in this year’s World Baseball Classic, which included many big leaguers. He may be the best of this year’s free agents.

Of course, past performance doesn’t guarantee anything, no matter how young someone is. Last winter, the Red Sox traded a group of minor leaguers to the Florida Marlins for Josh Beckett, then a 25-year-old pitcher who seemed to be entering his prime. Beckett ended up allowing more than five runs a game for Boston in 2006, easily his worst season yet.

On Monday, one of the young prospects the Red Sox traded for Beckett — Hanley Ramírez — was named the National League Rookie of the Year.
551 2006-11-19 Colleen Marie McCarthy, the deputy national finance director for Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, was married yesterday to Daniel Calhoon Turrentine, a political fund-raising consultant. Both work in Washington, where the Rev. Dr. Luis León performed the ceremony at St. John’s Episcopal Church, Lafayette Square.

Mrs. Turrentine, 27, graduated from St. Mary’s College in Notre Dame, Ind. She is the daughter of Diane Mueller McCarthy of Port Washington, Wis., and the late Patrick Henry McCarthy. Her father worked in Milwaukee as a senior account manager at Verizon. Her mother is a patient services associate at a clinic in Cedarburg, Wis., with the St. Mary’s hospital group.

Mr. Turrentine, 29, was until September the national finance director in Washington for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. He graduated from Lafayette College. He is the son of JoAnn B. Turrentine and J. Drake Turrentine of Washington. His mother, who retired as a prekindergarten teacher at St. Francis Episcopal Day School in Potomac, Md., is a floral designer in Washington. His father is the chief legal officer and secretary of the board of Special Olympics Inc. in Washington.
552 2006-11-19 If voting were held for a 2006 Most Average Player award, or M.A.P., who would win?

This depends on one’s definition of average, of course, but a fair one is this: the major leaguer whose statistics are closest to average among players with at least 400 plate appearances. (Looking at only starting-caliber players is necessary because total league averages are thrown out of whack by scores of rookies with maybe three at-bats.)

By that standard, this season’s Most Average Player was Arizona Diamondbacks second baseman Orlando Hudson, who hit .287 with 15 home runs and 67 runs batted in — very close to the major league averages of .283-18-73. His stolen bases, on-base percentage and slugging percentages were almost dead-on with major league norms. So call him Mr. Average. If he objects, perhaps Mr. Mean.

Getting back to Hudson, the statistically minded are surely shaking their heads, knowing that Hudson would never really be considered an average major leaguer, because he put up those statistics as a second baseman. Players should truly be compared to norms at their position. It is those results (see chart) that paint a clearer picture of what is truly average.

The all-Average Team — including the likes of Blue Jays first baseman Lyle Overbay and Royals left fielder Emil Brown — has players who would find dozens of eager suitors on the open market. And the average performance the Tigers received from center fielder Curtis Granderson for just $335,000 last season made him one of the biggest bargains in the majors.

“There’s a misperception that it’s easy to acquire an average player, that those players are readily available,” said Rick Hahn, the White Sox’ assistant general manager. “You can’t denigrate that value.”

Average starting pitchers are even more coveted. Those who made at least 18 starts last season put up an average record of 12-10 with a 4.14 earned run average. While also considering statistics like batting average allowed and innings pitched, the most average pitchers were Jeff Francis of the Colorado Rockies (13-11, 4.16 E.R.A.) and Dave Bush (12-10, 4.25) of the Milwaukee Brewers.

Since Francis put up his numbers in the hitters’ haven of Coors Field, one could normalize the statistics based on home ballpark environment — and teams do just that. “Those guys are really valuable,” Hahn added. “You’re not going to find a pitcher in the minors who can make 30 or 32 starts and put up the league average for you.”

If being average is valuable, how about being far from average? This cuts both ways, naturally.

The two most unaverage players in the big leagues turned out to be Ryan Howard of the Phillies (.313 batting average with 58 homers and 149 R.B.I.) and Albert Pujols of the Cardinals (.331-49-137), and they will deservedly be the consensus top two in the National League M.V.P. voting to be revealed tomorrow afternoon.

Yet their nonaverageness was trailed only narrowly by Yadier Molina, the punchless .216-hitting catcher for the Cardinals (though Mets fans remember him quite differently).

Average is in the eye of the beholder, no doubt. But in building their clubs in off-seasons like this one, most baseball executives grab onto average players like trees in a hurricane.

“They may be average, but they look above average to me,” said Ned Colletti, the Dodgers’ general manager. “They’re definitely closer to positive than negative. You try to make average your minimum, because average is pretty darned good.”
553 2006-11-19 THE next time you’re about to buy or sell a stock, you may first want to look up — at the moon.

You read that correctly. Believe it or not, the stock market tends to do better or worse depending on where we are in the lunar cycle.

That’s the conclusion of two studies that have circulated for a couple of years in academic circles but that, until an article in the November issue of the Harvard Business Review, received relatively little attention outside academia. The first study, “Lunar Cycle Effects in Stock Returns,” was by Ilia D. Dichev, an associate professor of accounting at the University of Michigan, and Troy D. Janes, an assistant accounting professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo. The second study, “Are Investors Moonstruck? Lunar Phases and Stock Returns”, was by Lu Zheng, an assistant finance professor at the University of California, Irvine; Kathy Yuan, an assistant finance professor at Michigan, and Qiaoqiao Zhu, a graduate student there.

Both studies agreed on a crucial point: during the 15 days of the lunar month closest to the new moon — starting seven days before it and ending seven days after — the stock market’s average returns are much higher than those of the other half of the month.

The differences are quite large — as much as 10 percent a year, on average, depending on the stock index and the number of decades studied — and they are pervasive. The researchers found a lunar effect in all major United States stock indexes over their history, including the Dow Jones industrial average back to its start in 1896. Furthermore, after examining several dozen foreign markets, the study by Professors Dichev and Janes concluded that “if anything, the results are more pronounced for foreign countries.”

One complete lunar cycle — from new moon to full moon and back again — lasts slightly less than 30 days. New moons and full moons do not occur on the same days of each month in the modern Western calendar. That is important, because it means that the stock market’s lunar cycle is not a disguised version of any other seasonal pattern based on that calendar. Other research has found, for example, that the market performs particularly well at the beginning of each calendar month, especially at the start of each year.
554 2006-11-19 Over the years, he has been pushing up across the border looking for new spots, and this time we’d decided to head up to Rogers Pass. Only a small portion of the ski terrain in British Columbia is served by chairlifts. The heli-ski industry is booming, but for us, with smaller budgets, Glacier was one of the best places to get to the backcountry on our own two feet.

From the small burg of Golden, British Columbia, we wound up to the pass on the Trans-Canada Highway (Route 1), as the April rain solidified into a snowstorm. As the windshield wipers slapped, mountains rose dramatically from each side of the highway. We craned our necks at the peaks, but they were hidden in clouds, and all we could see were the flanks ripped bare of timber by avalanches.

What makes the skiing there great is also what makes it foreboding: its annual snowfall of 567 inches — over 47 feet — one of the deepest in Canada. Never had I felt so close to avalanches, and we were still in the car. We passed through a series of tunnels built to shelter drivers from the inevitable slides.

Rogers Pass itself had a desolate feel. This outpost in this wintry valley consists of a gas station, a visitor’s center, an avalanche forecast center and the Best Western Glacier Park Lodge. The roofs were steep and pointed to shed the yearly load, and the parking lots walled in by heaps of plowed snow.

It was the middle of the week, late in the season, and the hotel seemed abandoned. The lobby bar, a rustic affair with plump leatherish seats and a small zoo mounted on the walls, was empty except for an employee forking noodles from an institutional-style steel tray. She and the clerk wore the same costume, a slightly Victorian frock with a cameo brooch at the neck. It was a bit creepy.

By the look of it, they were trying to re-create those glory days of the early 1900s when Rogers Pass was a grand stopping point for passengers on Canada’s first transcontinental railroad. It seemed they were hoping for pipe-smoking chaps in velvet coats massaging snifters of brandy while recalling a wildebeest hunt in Africa, or regretting good-naturedly that it’s hard to hire a good sherpa anymore. Instead, they got unshaven tramps like Munzke and me, hauling in rations of granola bars and noodle dinners.

At dinnertime, we decided to join the gentleman’s club and ordered entrees from the menu in the bar. The few signs of Old World sophistication — the Quebecers were speaking French — were quickly offset by the intrusion of modernity.

Tinny pop songs like Olivia Newton-John’s “Xanadu” were piped in unsettlingly loud and in the corner, a teenager pumped loonies into the Internet machine to update her MySpace page.

We poked at our fish platters (20 Canadian dollars, or $17.70 at $1.15 Canadian to the U.S. dollar). The wine had turned to vinegar and their best Scotch wasn’t as good as the 16-year-old Lagavulin that Munzke had waiting in a plastic bottle in his backpack in our room. The cook wandered into the lounge with a cast on his arm. By the time the check came, I was yearning gently for the quiet of my own room, a camp stove and a box of Rice-A-Roni.

The storm dumped snow all night, and in the morning the Rogers Pass Discovery Center listed the avalanche danger as high, which meant that natural and skier-triggered slides were likely. The museumlike displays did nothing to assuage my fears. There was a diorama of the 1910 disaster in which 62 train workers were killed by an avalanche that buried the railroad. Inside the glass case I could see little rescuer figures digging in the snow for survivors beside knocked-down three-inch-tall pine trees and power lines. They all looked so helpless in there.

On the wall above, a reprint of the local newspaper from that day screamed with its headline: Death Stalks Rogers Pass.

So Munzke and I decided to skip the backcountry altogether, and drove down to Golden, spending the day riding the gondola and skiing the avalanche-controlled slopes of the Kicking Horse resort. The place even had a sushi bar, a big step up from the dining room at the pass.

By the time we got back to the Best Western a few more skiers had arrived, and we drank beer with them in the hot tub. The pool and tub sat behind the lodge in the parking lot, covered by a plastic canopy whose several tears let in occasional snow squalls from the storm that hadn’t really stopped for 30 hours or so.

In the tub were a dozen or so Canadians and a pair of New Zealanders. We swapped ski stories while our fingers pruned and the storm blew. The Canadians chugged down a couple of cases of canned beer — respecting the prohibition against glass bottles. Resourceful mountaineers, they also massaged the motel rules to solve the culinary dilemma on Rogers Pass: smuggling a microwave oven into a room.

“We’re not actually cooking in the room, eh?” said one. “We’re just reheating.”

Back in our room, Munzke and I flicked on the TV, but the only channel we got was the hotel’s security cameras, lonesome black and white still shots of empty hallways and vacant tables in the dining room. Suddenly, I missed my dog.

Hot tubs and sushi notwithstanding, for someone who likes the backcountry, skiing at resorts and sleeping in motels is ultimately a bummer. So the next day, we pasted climbing skins to our skis, tested our beacons and skied into the woods, where we would spend the next two nights at the A. O. Wheeler Hut, a rustic log cabin about half an hour from the road.

Upstairs on foam pads under its pitched ceiling the cabin sleeps up to 24 in winter, and this being a Saturday, with the routes to the huts at higher elevation considered too risky in these conditions, the place was chock-full of friendly Canadians. Icicles clung to the eaves, and after breaking them into slivers, they mixed well in a tin mug with the Lagavulin.

The cabin sits at the bottom of a steep forested valley. With the stormy skies, we were buried in clouds. I knew there were peaks and glaciers above the trees but could not see them.

THE next morning, with the avalanche danger ratcheted down to moderate for slopes beneath the treeline, we started climbing. A wet snow fell steadily and soon I was soaked to the skin. The trees were thick and so were the clouds, and we couldn’t make out anything across the valley.

We followed the switchbacks up the mountain, sometimes so steep that my skins wouldn’t stick and I’d slide backward in my tracks. When we finally emerged from the old growth, we were on a ridge of thin timber — evidence of past slides.

Now might be a good time to explain how avalanche beacons work. They are a little bigger than an iPod, and each skier straps one to his chest. When he’s buried under snow, his buddy (assuming that he is not buried too) will be able to flick his gizmo from “send” to “receive” and then follow the beeps to the vicinity of the buried person. The rescuer then unfolds a skinny pole and probes the snow until he connects with flesh, then whips out his shovel and starts digging. All of this must transpire in fewer minutes than it takes a person to suffocate.

I didn’t feel particularly safe. Munzke predicted that our ridge would very likely split an avalanche from above onto the flanks on either side, and assured me if I just breathed a bit more slowly everything would be fine. So we dug a pit to analyze the stability of the snow, which Munzke declared to be favorable, then sat on our packs and ate salami and cheese and pieces of chocolate.

For brief moments, the clouds above cleared and we got our first glimpse of what Rogers Pass is famous for: big, sharp peaks looming high above, jagged pyramids too steep to hold snow, their bases wrapped in white blankets of glaciers, wild and dramatic and more like Alaskan mountains than anything I’ve seen in the lower 48.

And then we dropped into a bowl, a brief shot of bare snow in the thick woods. Everything was just right. The snow was fluff that heaped on my thighs and blasted over my head, the mist peeled back and a mountain looked down, and those 10 weightless turns, floating off the ridge and soaring into the valley, now that was something.

There’s no easy way to get to Rogers Pass. The nearest international airport is in Calgary, leaving about 200 miles to drive; a recent Web search found nonstop round-trip fares from Kennedy in New York in mid-December starting at $457.

The nearest major United States airport is in Spokane, Wash., about 380 miles south of Rogers Pass; one-stop flights from New York via Seattle, Denver or other cities recently started at around $410 for mid-December.

The only place to eat and stay at Rogers Pass is the 50-room Best Western Glacier Park Lodge (250-837-2126; www.glacierparklodge.ca). Doubles start at 70 Canadian dollars, about $62 at 1.15 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar.

For backcountry hut reservations, contact the Alpine Club of Canada (403-678-3200; www.alpineclubofcanada.ca), whose many accommodations include the A. O. Wheeler Hut and the Asulkan Cabin; nightly nonmember rates are 32 Canadian dollars. No food is included.

All skiers should check on local conditions and see if a backcountry permit is needed at the Rogers Pass Discovery Center, (250-837-7500; www.pc.gc.ca/pn-np/bc/glacier). They should also travel with avalanche rescue gear (beacon, shovel, probe) and get instruction in using them.
555 2006-11-19 In finding a correlation between the price of rye and property crime in the 1800s, current economists are rediscovering relationships well known at the time (Freakonomics, Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt, Nov. 5). In his book, ''Laboring Cl...
556 2006-11-19 From the parking lot at John's Meat Market in Scotch Plains, you can hear the booming sounds of ''The Stars and Stripes Forever.'' Inside, the place is mobbed.     ''Ya want brisket?'' hollers the owner, Vinnie Losavio, to a customer in the store,...
557 2006-11-19 Since the 2004 tsunami, developers have been pouring redevelopment money into the Maldives, betting on an Indian Ocean comeback. Older hotels are getting makeovers, and new ones are taking opulence to new heights. But with so many thatched, over-w...
558 2006-11-19 Travel's New Superstars ... Hoxton Heats Up ... The Perfect Plane ... Maldives Born Again ... America's Most Over-The-Top Inn....
559 2006-11-19 LISS--Henry R., M.D. 81, a Pioneer in Neurosurgery, who in 1965 performed New Jersey's first stereotactic neurosurgery with his partner, Dr. George Zazanis, and served as senior vice president of medical affairs at Overlook Hospital in Summit for ...
560 2006-11-19 With the recent launch of Virgin Fuels, Richard Branson's $400 million investment into alternative energy sources, an airliner of a higher order began to seem attainable. If the perfect plane could be spliced together using the best innovations of...
561 2006-11-19 You may not have heard of BRIC -- the acronym for Brazil, Russia, India, China -- but you've heard its buzz. These emerging powers are where investors are sending capital, architects are rejiggering skylines and cognoscenti are mining for cultural...
562 2006-11-19 If you are lucky, as two 40-ish patrons recently observed upon dropping their purses to the bare wood floor and climbing on barstools, you will find a seat.      But sometimes, ''it's crazy,'' one said to the other as a bartender propped a small v...
563 2006-11-19 Portland, Ore., established itself as a capital of the organic-food movement years ago. This season it's reached a peak, with new restaurants putting an even more creative spin on local ingredients. At Vindalho (2038 Southeast Clinton Street; 503-...
564 2006-11-19 For those who like the idea of renting a villa but not ormolu and chintz, there's Rad Pads. This new group of properties from the British company Private World brings together a dozen modern and avant-garde houses in as many destinations, includin...
565 2006-11-19 What unfolded at Continental Arena on Saturday night was unexpected, yet not unfamiliar, to the Nets.     They were sluggish and sloppy and were outplayed by a lesser opponent, rekindling memories of their early-season struggles a year ago and a l...
566 2006-11-19 Train food is rarely good enough to eat, let alone earn praise. But a snack on Amtrak is now winning kudos: the bratwurst. This hickory-smoked pork sausage ($4) is seasoned with onion, garlic and spices and isn't emulsified like many other brats, ...
567 2006-11-19 A cheat sheet to the season's up-and-coming destinations.   CHARLES RUNNETTE...
568 2006-11-19 This season's most heralded new hotel is Winvian, set on the former country estate of a founding partner of Merrill Lynch in the Litchfield Hills of Connecticut. Different architects designed each of the 18 luxe cottages (and one suite), from the ...
569 2006-11-19 As Shanghai booms, so do its dance floors. The cult of the D.J. has taken hold in the Chinese city, with a growing rank of local clubgoers getting behind the turntable at clubs like C's Bar (685 Ding Xi Road; 011-86-21-6294-0547), Mural (697 Yong ...
570 2006-11-19 It is baseball's award season, with headlines and hardware bestowed upon each league's best rookie, pitcher and what-not. Tomorrow and Tuesday will bring the ever-anticipated Most Valuable Player awards, the season's ultimate prizes, on which base...
571 2006-11-19 Colleen Marie McCarthy, the deputy national finance director for Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, was married yesterday to Daniel Calhoon Turrentine, a political fund-raising consultant. Both work in Washington, where the Rev. Dr. Luis León pe...
572 2006-11-19 Consider this season's coffee-table books rocket propulsion for armchair travelers. ''Burton Holmes Travelogues'' (Taschen, $50) unites the photography and writings of this larger-than-life early-20th-century adventurer. ''In the Spirit of Miami B...
573 2006-11-20 Nasdaq on Monday offered to pay 2.7 billion pounds ($5.1 billion) for the London Stock Exchange, its second attempt to acquire Europe's biggest stock market. Nasdaq's previous bid was rejected, but it has built up a 25 percent stake in the London ...
574 2006-11-20 As "Little Miss Sunshine" edges toward $60 million, one of the Bagger's sources suggested to him that the strong word-of-mouth, which continues to fill the movie's sails with wind - and its producer's pockets with glorious lucre - might have an in...
575 2006-11-20 The Macao casino venture headed by James Packer and Lawrence Ho is moving ahead rapidly with its plans for a $1 billion initial public offering on the Nasdaq, with Citigroup, Credit Suisse and UBS expected to start marketing the offer to investors...
576 2006-11-20 Chevron said Friday that it called off plans to buy most of the gasoline stations owned by USA Petroleum, which runs California's largest network of independent outlets and is credited with inventing self-service fueling in the 1940s. The deal was...
577 2006-11-20 The faces are familiar, and the names are too: Chris McGurk, former vice chairman of MGM; Tom Pollock, former honcho of Universal; and Rob Friedman, a marketing guru late of the Sherry Lansing regime at Paramount. All these executives, once top me...
578 2006-11-20 Now tens of thousands of Iraqis seeking to escape the violence that has consumed their country have fled into Syria, creating their own schools, neighborhoods and communities there.

Violence continued to claim Iraqi lives at a rapid pace. Authorities said that 90 Iraqis were killed across Iraq on Monday, including 60 who were found dead in and around Baghdad. An elderly priest visiting a church in Naariya, an area in southern Baghdad, was kidnapped, a police official in the area said.

Among the dead was the host of a popular comedy show, Walid Hassan Jiaaz, who poked fun at post-invasion Iraqi life. He was shot dead by gunmen in western Baghdad. A deputy health minister, Hakim al-Zameli, a supporter of the militant Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, escaped assassination when his convoy came under attack; two of his guards were killed.

A week after the mass kidnapping of employees at the Ministry of Higher Education compound in Baghdad, the fate of those still missing remained unclear. Interior Minister Jawad Bolani said the kidnapping was not motivated by sectarian hatred, but gave no details on what might have been the reason for the act. He said a preliminary investigation showed that the kidnappers might have had help from someone inside the ministry itself.

During their meeting on Monday, Mr. Maliki used stern words in urging Mr. Moallem to take more serious steps in preventing Sunni Arab militants from crossing his country’s border into Iraq, the prime minister’s office said.

“We want to set a kind of relation with them to protect our people from the violence that was coming from them,” said a Shiite politician who had been involved in the talks. Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the chief spokesman for the American military command here, said Monday that Syrians made up about 20 percent of the 670 foreign fighters in custody here.

The United States withdrew its ambassador from Damascus in February 2005, after the assassination of Rafik Harriri, the former Lebanese prime minister. But as the Bush administration considers policy alternatives in Iraq, allies like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain are encouraging it to reopen dialogue with Syria and Iran.

In some ways, it has already started. Mr. Moallem met with former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who is co-chairman of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, in a hotel in New York in September and discussed what role Syria could play in helping to stabilize Iraq, the Syrian ambassador to the United States said.

Although the United States and Iran have been at odds over Tehran’s nuclear program, Bush administration officials have signaled that they would be willing to discuss Iraqi issues. Last week in testimony before Congress, David Satterfield, the State Department’s coordinator of Iraq policy, said that with respect to Iran, “we are prepared, in principle, to discuss Iranian activities in Iraq.”

He added, “The timing of such a direct dialogue is one we still have under review.”

At a news conference with one of Iraq’s most powerful Shiite leaders, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, Mr. Moallem said that relations between the two countries were still strained.

“I didn’t come to Baghdad to satisfy the United States,” he said. “I’m not a mediator for the United States in the region.”
579 2006-11-20 Reaching a deal with London could help Nasdaq overtake its rival, the New York Stock Exchange’s parent NYSE Group, in Europe. The New York Stock Exchange and Euronext, a network of four European stock markets and a London derivatives market, are expected to ask shareholders for final approval of their planned merger in December.

This is the second time this year that Nasdaq has offered to acquire the London exchange. In March, London rejected an indicated offer of £9.50 a share. On Monday, Nasdaq made an offer of £12.43, up more than 30 percent from March, but only 2 percent above the London exchange’s closing stock price of £12.18 on Friday.

Much has changed since March, though. London’s shareholders have rapidly turned over, and as many as a third of its investors now are thought to be hedge funds, chiefly concerned not with a company’s long-term business strategy but with the highest short-term return.

“It is difficult to see how this is not going to go through,” said Lynton Jones, a founder of Bourse Consult in London, which advises stock exchanges, and a former head of Nasdaq’s international operations. “The London exchange is boxed into a corner.”

But Nasdaq may still need to sweeten its offer. Apparently anticipating a higher bid, investors bid up the shares of the London Stock Exchange 6 percent on Monday, to £12.91.

Andrew Mitchell, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton in London, said, “It’s not obvious where the L.S.E. can move next, but by not entering into negotiations with Nasdaq, they have put them in an awkward position.” Nasdaq, he said, might be forced to offer more.

But officials at ratings agencies said that paying more could be dangerous for Nasdaq. One agency, Moody’s Investor Services, put Nasdaq on review for a possible downgrading because of any additional debt that the company might take on.

Nasdaq has now accumulated nearly 29 percent of the London exchange’s shares, enough to scare away rival suitors. It needs just over 50 percent to win control.

Doug Atkin, chief executive of Majestic Research in New York, said, “The really powerful thing about this is there is no alternative” for Nasdaq rivals who hope to match the deal.

Clara Furse, the chief executive of the London exchange, he said, has “the equivalent of the only beachfront property in town.”

Indeed, the London Stock Exchange was been reluctant to sell. In recent years, the 246-year-old exchange has turned down offers from Macquarie Bank of Australia, Deutsche Börse of Germany and OM of Sweden.

In a statement, Ms. Furse said, “Nasdaq’s final offer fails to recognize the outstanding growth record and prospects of our group on a standalone basis let alone the exchange’s unique global position.”

Nasdaq said in a statement of its own that it was “disappointed” by the London exchange’s decision.

Nasdaq’s chief executive, Robert Greifeld said during a conference call with investors that he would like to do the deal with the approval of the London exchange’s board. He gave a laundry list of concessions he would make in a takeover, including leaving the London Stock Exchange’s board independent, its management intact and holding Nasdaq board meetings in London. Nasdaq would also list its shares on the London exchange.

Nasdaq “respects the strength of the London market” and will insure the London exchange continues the same practices, he said.

Mr. Greifeld also pledged not to raise broker-dealer fees for users of either market for three years. Nasdaq plans to use a combination of cash, preferred stock and bank debt arranged with Bank of America and Dresdner Kleinwort to finance the deal.

Nasdaq expects to post an official offer this week, at which time London Stock Exchange holders have 28 days to tender their shares to Nasdaq. That can be extended to 60 days. In addition, 30 days after posting a formal offer, Nasdaq can buy more shares of the London exchange on the market.

If Nasdaq succeeds, both it and the New York Stock Exchange will face competition on other fronts. Seven major global investment banks — Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS — plan to start an electronic pan-European exchange. Predictions that it could take business away from the London Stock Exchange have weakened its share price.

Underlining the increasingly global market for stocks and futures and a growing demand for cheap trading across time zones, both the New York and the London exchanges are in talks with the Tokyo Stock Exchange over possible alliances.

On Monday, the British government said it was open to foreign ownership of the London market but stressed that any takeover must not threaten the current regulatory framework.

"We are neutral with respect to the nationality of the ownership of the L.S.E.," said Ed Balls, economic secretary to the chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, said. "Our interest in the ownership of the L.S.E. is that it should not affect the existing risk-based regulatory regime under which the exchange and its members and issuers operate.”
580 2006-11-20 A 22-year-old driver lost control of his car, struck a guardrail and spun into the center of the westbound lanes of the Sunrise Highway just after 4 a.m. yesterday, the Suffolk County police said. A short time later, the disabled vehicle, which was under the Locust Avenue overpass, was struck by a Suffolk County police car. The driver of the disabled car, Derek Romeo, was found lying on the side of the road after the crash and pronounced dead at a local hospital, the police said. The officer driving the police car, who was not identified yesterday, was treated for injuries and released, the police said. The police were investigating the accident yesterday afternoon and were trying to determine whether Mr. Romeo was thrown from his car during the initial accident or after his car had been struck by the police car.
581 2006-11-20 For many Americans, the imagery of this teeming, chaotic place is fixed in 1975, when the last Americans were evacuated by helicopter. Mr. Bush sped past the evacuation spot on his arrival here, but made no stops that would invite comparisons to the current debate over whether the United States should stay or retreat from Iraq.

He steered clear of the other sites that so dominated American politics in his youth, and spent the night at one of the gleaming new hotels that dot the skyline, rather than one of the old haunts, like the Continental, the Rex and the Caravelle, where official Washington once struggled to manage a losing effort.

Instead, he made an unannounced stop for dinner with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia at a trendy restaurant in a neighborhood that symbolizes the new Saigon — the name local people insist on using for a city that was renamed immediately after the Communist victory.

After dinner, Mr. Bush mounted the running board of his waiting limousine and waved to a crowd of curious, mostly younger Vietnamese who jammed the streets as news of his arrival spread. There were muted cheers.

In a trip that has focused relentlessly on the future, Mr. Bush urged China’s leader, Hu Jintao, to create “a nation of consumers and not savers, which will inure to the benefit of our manufacturers, both large and small, and our farmers, as well.” It was an echo of what Mr. Bush’s father used to urge in his visits to Japan, in hopes of closing the trade gap.

At the meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Hanoi over the weekend, Mr. Bush talked about exploring new free trade arrangements for Asia — a long-sought but still distant goal — and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice used the case of Vietnam as an instructive example of economic reform.

In a speech in Hanoi, she said that “20 years ago the leaders of Vietnam took a hard look at their isolated economy, and they made a strategic choice to begin reforms.” In fact, they have turned to serious reforms only in recent years.

Mr. Bush’s spokesmen said that he and the leaders of Japan and China saw “eye to eye” on steps needed to press North Korea.

But the spokesmen did not use those words to describe talks with the South Koreans, who have been particularly reluctant to fully join efforts to intercept suspected illicit shipments of arms, or to cut off economic links after the North’s nuclear test.

Christopher R. Hill, the chief American negotiator with North Korea, is to fly to Beijing this week to try to work out a mix of incentives for the North and to persuade the Chinese to push for a symbolically important dismantling of part of North Korea’s weapons complex. That last step is one the North Koreans have not yet indicated they are ready to take before negotiations resume.

Russia has continued to balk about imposing major sanctions against Iran, which has continued to defy a United Nations Security Council call for full suspension of its enrichment of uranium.

Rather than dwell on those differences in public, Russian and American officials celebrated an agreement to allow Russia to enter the W.T.O. after 10 years of stop-and-go negotiations, and talks that began shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

“We support Russia’s accession into the W.T.O.,” President Bush announced in Hanoi after a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin on the outskirts of the Asia-Pacific meeting.

American officials said the agreement with Russia was reached in principle more than a week ago, after the two countries gradually worked out nagging disputes on issues like agriculture inspections, chicken exports to Russia and intellectual property protection.

Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, said the pact should bring a significant increase to global trade.

Her Russian counterpart, Economy Minister German Gref, was equally effusive at the signing ceremony on Sunday. “Undoubtedly, this agreement is a very substantial milestone in the full integration of Russia into the global economy,” he said.

Mr. Putin has repeatedly said that joining the W.T.O. is a major foreign policy goal, although Russia’s oil-driven economy will get few direct gains from membership in the organization, which sets the ground rules for globalization. But joining would give Russia a voice in world trade talks, with the potential to help set future trade policy.

The agreement with the United States means that Russia has passed the last major barrier to its entry into the 149-member world trade entity.

But Russia still must win approval from Moldova and Georgia, countries with grievances over a Russian ban on importing wine. Those countries could further delay a final deal on W.T.O. membership, although trade officials have said they expect that Russia will manage to find a way to resolve the issue.
582 2006-11-20 For the most part, the blitzing packages they threw at the Bears (9-1) were bracingly effective. The Jets (5-5) limited quarterback Rex Grossman to 7 yards passing in the first half and held the Chicago offense to one field goal after 45 minutes.

But on the first play of the fourth quarter, a second-and-6 for the Bears at their 43-yard line, the Jets’ aggressiveness became their undoing. Safety Kerry Rhodes, who finished with eight tackles and one sack, led an all-out blitz. Grossman, reading the pressure like shorthand, took a three-step drop and dumped the ball to wideout Mark Bradley.

Bradley faked cornerback Drew Coleman coming off the line of scrimmage, and Coleman crumpled to the ground. After Bradley caught the ball, he encountered nothing but open field. The scoring play covered 57 yards and exposed the downside of the Jets’ strategy.

“Several times they had an all-out blitz,” Grossman said, “and didn’t have any safety help, kind of putting the corners out there on an island.”

Grossman was 11 of 22 passing for 119 yards. His leading receiver was Bradley, who finished with 4 catches for 80 yards. Asked about his score, Bradley said: “Every receiver loves a one-on-one situation. May the best man win.”

Jets quarterback Chad Pennington is usually averse to risk. Temperamentally speaking, he is more like the man who buries his fortune in his backyard than a day trader. But after moving the ball 70 yards on the Jets’ third drive, Pennington got greedy.

On a third-and-goal at the Bears’ 6-yard line, Pennington forced a pass into tight coverage in the end zone. It was intended for tight end Chris Baker but was picked off by Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher.

The interception was the first of two by Pennington. It came as the Jets’ second-year place-kicker, Mike Nugent, was warming up on the sideline for what he figured would be, at worst, a chip-shot field goal and, at best, an extra point.

Receiver Laveranues Coles, Pennington’s favorite target, was alone in the back of the end zone on the play, a fact that he pointed out to Pennington afterward in a painfully one-sided conversation on the sideline.

Coles led the Jets with 8 catches for 80 yards, but departed the Meadowlands believing that he left at least one more on the field. “There were a lot of opportunities out there, especially when we got one-on-one matchups,” he said.

Pennington and his receivers were not on the same page, although he was helpless to explain why. “Right now we are experiencing some downfalls in the passing game,” he said, adding, “That’s disappointing to me.”

Pennington, who completed 19 of 35 passes for 162 yards, said that the read on the first interception “didn’t tell me to go to Laveranues’s side.”

He added: “They just happened to bust the coverage and I can’t control that. Urlacher made a great play. He just broke on the football really quickly. I didn’t see him until I let go of the football.”

The Jets crossed midfield only twice after that, and they did not return to the red zone. Their next-best drive was wiped out by Pennington’s second interception, by cornerback Nathan Vasher, at the Bears’ 25, with 5 minutes 26 seconds left in the third quarter.

A gamble on special teams at the start of the second half also backfired. The Jets went for an onside kick, as they had done against the Colts in Week 4. But the Bears had done their film work and knew to be suspicious when Erik Coleman, who usually lines up on the right side on kickoffs, appeared on the left side.

The Bears’ Chris Harris recovered the short kick at the Jets’ 44. Running back Thomas Jones did the rest, carrying the ball seven consecutive times, picking up 42 yards and setting up Robbie Gould’s 20-yard field goal.

“I really liked the play, I liked the situation, I liked the call,” Jets Coach Eric Mangini said, adding, “You have to take a calculated risk.”

When Johnson mingled with the fans, as he does at every home game, he was approached by many people in Jets jerseys who simply wanted to congratulate him on choosing the 35-year-old Mangini as Herman Edwards’s replacement.

After five years of Edwards’s conservative game-day approach, the fans have warmed to Mangini’s more aggressive style. “Great move with Mangini,” one fan said. Another nominated Mangini for coach of the year, to which Johnson replied, “If we win today, I’ll vote for him, too.”

The Jets did not win but, true to Mangini’s philosophy, they went down swinging.

The Jets’ rookie linebacker Anthony Schlegel, who was inactive the first nine games, made his N.F.L. debut, playing on special teams. ... Receiver Wayne Chrebet, who retired in June, was among the crowd of 77,632. He said he was attending his first Jets game since his retirement. He had not come to one earlier in the season, he said, because he thought it would be too hard to be a spectator after suiting up for 11 seasons.
583 2006-11-20 “The reason I’m so interested in immunology is that it gives you the potential to develop vaccines for cancer, malaria and H.I.V./AIDS,” said Mr. Shenderov, 19, who skipped the fourth and seventh grades and is now a senior and a biochemistry major at N.Y.U.

There is also a more personal reason. In 1988, at age 6, Eugene was found to have leukemia, one of the tens of thousands to fall ill as a result of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear plant explosion. The Shenderovs lived only 100 miles away from the plant at the time, in the town of Chernovsky.

Two years later, the family moved to the United States as refugees, hoping to provide Eugene with life-saving treatment and to freely exercise their Jewish faith, Kevin said.

In a telephone interview from Oxford yesterday, Eugene, who has fully recovered, said his brother is “smart as a whip,” and “pretty much can absorb and understand anything.” Eugene’s award earned him a small amount of New York City fame when the City University of New York used his face on recruiting ads in the subways.

The brothers have a 12-year-old sister, Stacey. Kevin said their parents did not have time be interviewed yesterday: their mother, Faina, was studying for her doctorate of pharmacy and their father, Peter, a radiation oncology physicist at Maimonides Medical Center, was helping her.

The Shenderovs are not the first siblings to win Rhodes Scholarships, but are the first ones to do so in recent years, said Elliot F. Gerson, American secretary for the Rhodes Trust, which administers the prize. Perhaps the best known are the Supreme Court justice and all-American running back Byron R. White and his older brother, Clayton White, a scientist and researcher, who both won the prize in the 1930s.

The winners announced yesterday also included Jacob E. Lemieux of Manhattan, a student at Stanford University; Maya Shankar of Cheshire, Conn., and Yale University; and Christian C. Sahner, of Maplewood, N.J., and Princeton University. Harvard had six winners; Yale, four and Stanford, three.

The Rhodes Scholarships were created in 1902 by the will of the British philanthropist Cecil Rhodes, who made his fortune in diamonds and other precious stones of colonial Africa.

About 85 scholars are selected worldwide each year, based on their academic achievements, “physical vigor” and character.

Kevin Shenderov, who likes badminton matches and mountain hikes, competed in his first marathon last month, in Toronto, finishing in just under four hours. He trained for about six months, he said, running from his house on East 23rd Street in Midwood, Brooklyn, to the Coney Island boardwalk and back, he said.

His average day includes a batch of classes that range from chemistry to quantum physics to the study of Islam, work as a teaching assistant and several hours in the laboratory at N.Y.U. Medical Center.

“He has this dimension to him that one associates not just with the joy of learning, but with the joy of life,” said John Sexton, the president of N.Y.U. “He’s not withdrawn and contemplative. He’s engaged and active and thinks of his own development as a knowing person, as a learned person, as being connected to broader causes.”

Last month he organized a daylong conference on global health at N.Y.U. His work has appeared in the Global Health Review, a biannual journal he helped found. He enjoys reading (“Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed,” by Jared Diamond, is his choice at the moment) and loves acting, though his sole experience on stage dates to high school, when he performed in Tennessee Williams’s “Summer and Smoke.”

“Acting is really time-consuming, and I just don’t have the time, unfortunately,” he said. “That and I’m not that good of an actor, really.”
584 2006-11-20 Tim Duncan scored a season-high 35 points and grabbed 14 rebounds last night, and the San Antonio Spurs improved their franchise-best road start to 5-0 with a 108-99 victory against the Sacramento Kings.

The first meeting between the teams since the Spurs beat the Kings in the sixth game of their first-round playoff series in May was a physical game that featured three players leaving for the locker room to get stitches.

“I came to Arco Arena and a hockey game broke out,” Brent Barry said.

Barry scored 11 points off the bench before going down with 22.2 seconds left in the second quarter after a hard collision with Ronnie Price. Both players were helped off the court and needed stitches — nine for Barry to close a two-inch gash on the left side of his forehead and seven for Price on his chin. Both returned, with Barry wearing a large bandage held on by a headband.

“It was unfortunate we both got hurt on the play,” Barry said. “It’s basketball. It’s part of the game.”

Kenny Thomas of Sacramento headed to the locker room 5 minutes 25 seconds before halftime to get two stitches on his lip after being hit in the mouth by Duncan. Kings Coach Eric Musselman protested that it should have been Duncan’s third foul, but nothing was called.
585 2006-11-20 True to form, the Mets have worked swiftly so far this off-season. They have locked in on a player, nabbed him with a hefty contract and then crossed that need off their list. But with Tom Glavine, the Mets have little control. All they can do is wait and hope.

The Mets will not exercise their $14 million option on Glavine for next season by today’s 11:59 p.m. deadline, instead buying him out for $3 million and making him a free agent. Glavine is interested in only two teams, however, and he has spent the last month with his family at their suburban Atlanta home deliberating whether to re-sign with the Mets or to finish off his splendid career where it began, with the Atlanta Braves.

Nothing else — not money, not personal relationships, not his pursuit of 300 victories — but Glavine has said that his family’s wishes will dictate his decision, and the Mets anticipate him needing until next week, after he returns from vacation, to make up his mind.

The Mets and Glavine have remained in contact, with each side aware of where the other stands. The Mets would love an answer as soon as possible so they can proceed with the rest of their plans. But out of respect for Glavine, who has 290 wins, they will give him as much time as he needs. Glavine’s agent, Gregg Clifton, said last week at the general managers’ meetings in Naples, Fla., that Glavine expected a resolution before baseball’s winter meetings begin Dec. 4.

The Mets are likely to offer Glavine a contract in the $10 million to $11 million range — the presumed annual cost of a second-tier free-agent pitcher like Jeff Suppan or Vicente Padilla — that may include an option for 2008. The Braves, who can begin negotiations with Glavine at midnight tomorrow, are believed to be very interested in Glavine but cannot compete financially with the Mets. They can offer him something the Mets cannot: a chance to see his children off to school for half the season.

Whether Glavine stays will have little effect on the Mets’ interest in the free-agent pitcher Barry Zito. Now that the Red Sox have won the right to negotiate with the star Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Mets view Zito as the top pitcher available and are interested in signing him no matter what. But if Glavine elects to sign with the Braves, the Mets are likely to go full-throttle after Zito and at least one other pitcher. The negotiations for Zito figure to last well into December.

Now that the Mets are on the verge of signing the free-agent outfielder Moises Alou to a one-year contract, they may intensify their efforts to package outfielder Lastings Milledge in a deal for a front-line starter. The Mets are enthralled with their young outfield prospects Carlos Gomez and Fernando Martínez, who they believe have more potential than Milledge, and could trade him for a pitcher, perhaps Dontrelle Willis of Florida, Jake Peavy of San Diego or Jason Jennings of Colorado. The Mets are still interested in White Sox pitchers Javier Vázquez and Freddy García, but Chicago would like one of the Mets’ top young pitchers — Mike Pelfrey or Philip Humber — in return.
586 2006-11-20 BHUBANESHWAR, India, Nov. 19 (AP) — India on Sunday successfully test-fired a medium-range missile capable of carrying nuclear warheads days after its rival, Pakistan, had launched a similar missile.

The Indian missile, called the Prithvi, was fired into the Bay of Bengal from a test range in Chandipur in the eastern state of Orissa, a Defense Ministry official said, speaking on condition of anonymity under ministry rules. The test came three days after Pakistan carried out a similar test of its nuclear-capable Ghauri missile, also known as the Hatf-5.

The two countries recently concluded a crucial round of peace talks in New Delhi in an effort to resolve their differences, including the thorny issue of their territorial dispute over the Himalayan region of Kashmir. India and Pakistan have fought three wars, two over Kashmir, since 1947.

The missile test Sunday was “routine” and “part of the country’s air defense exercises,” an unidentified official said, according to the Press Trust of India news agency.

India routinely test-fires missiles it is developing for military use, as does Pakistan.

A Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Tasnim Aslam, said Sunday that India had informed Pakistan ahead of time, as is its standard procedure.

On Saturday, district authorities in Chandipur evacuated about 2,750 villagers living near the testing range to two large shelters about a mile away, the news agency said.
587 2006-11-20 Everybody nodded assent. Down the hall a parrot made that signal three-tone noise from “Close Encounters.”

While Mr. Milch’s background includes significant stints as an addict, a horse player and a depressive, he is also a student of the poet Robert Penn Warren and a teacher of fiction seminars at Yale. Attentive, upturned faces are his inspiration, his clay and his congregation. The atmosphere in the room feels a bit like church, of which Mr. Milch is well aware. “Showbiz and churches are the same thing,” he said during a break. “You never saw ‘The Wizard of Oz’?”

He has, as recovered drug users generally do, come back from the dead several times, and has come to believe that he is intended, somehow, to tell stories in a way that has an impact on the species.

“I am an instrument of purposes that I don’t fully understand,” he said, not caring how grand or silly it might sound. “Time will tell whether I am a wing nut or a megalomaniac,” he added. “The difference between a cult and faith is time. I believe that we are a single organism, and that something is at stake in this particular moment.”

The reason he acts out all the parts in his shows in front of the people who work on them, and explains their philosophical underpinnings, invoking Gustav Theodor Fechner and three euphemisms for the male sex organ in the same sentence, is related to the notion of faith.

“They need to understand something,” he said of his actors. “And if they don’t have a script, they need to believe in something.”

After the break Mr. Milch walked Brian Van Holt, who plays Butchie Yost, a surfer turned addict, through a scene in which John from Cincinnati enters his fetid apartment.

“Everything is shameful to a junkie,” Mr. Milch said. “Every time a junkie walks into a new environment, he looks around and says, ‘What are the specific items of the indictment?’ ”

Mr. Milch knows this because he has lived from fix to fix. He embraces his own imperfection and finds humanity in the woundedness of others. Rebecca De Mornay, an actress who has spent a couple of years between opportunities, will play Cissy Yost, the matriarch of the family. Shaun Yost, a talented young surfer turned skateboarder, will be played by Greyson Fletcher, a nonactor and, not so coincidentally, one of the real-life models for at least part of the story.

The conscience of the pilot, a wizened character named Bill, is modeled after Mr. Milch’s best friend, Bill Clark, a retired New York police detective who is never far from Mr. Milch’s side. The role will be held down by Ed O’Neill, who will be the moral center of the series and the dramatic collective Mr. Milch is trying to build.

“We are going to be doing a story that is on HBO and there are these endearing characters. It is about surfing, but some of the characters levitate and as the story complicates itself, my faith begins with looking at my friend,” Mr. Milch said, gesturing toward Mr. O’Neill.

In an interview later that day Mr. Milch does not so much answer questions as flatten them and then rebuild them to create a teachable moment.

“What is this show about? It is about itself,” he said later in the day, lying on the floor supported by the crook of one arm, the other doing jerky arabesques in the air. “Ostensibly it is about a family of surfers who seem to have become more and more disassociated from themselves and from good surfing. They were all champions, and they are in one way or another alienated, loaded and ascetic.”

He paused. “And then a strange guy comes into their life: John from Cincinnati.”

Surfing in general has an indifferent show-business history, heroin addiction has never been a big commercial draw, and it would be hard to come up with a surer route to shark bait than aliens.

“The smart money is that this show is about a stupid subject,” he said. “The wave of commerce,” he added, “is that what goes up must go down.”

“Deadwood” was a success, albeit one whose abrupt end left Mr. Milch with “a bitter taste in the cup.”

“So now the smart money is saying that HBO and I are on the way down,” Mr. Milch continued. “But there is a saying at the racetrack: the smart money tends to miss its bus in the morning.”

He is less cocky than steeped in his own legacy of overcoming doubts. In an a-literate medium, his love of words has brought him awards, applause and a lot of money.

Chris Albrecht, chief executive of HBO, said the network is betting on a horse they have come to revere.

“He is a great writer and a great producer who is very responsive to the business realities of making a big television show,” Mr. Albrecht said. “We don’t have to worry about looking for a broad audience. You have to just say to him, ‘Go write it.’ ”

Shortly after the day’s work the “John From Cincinnati” group decamped to Imperial Beach, Calif., a stand-in for the border town in the script, where they spent several weeks shooting the pilot.

Sometime after their return Mr. Milch, in a follow-up phone call, said he was still choosing to believe. The story and cast were jelling, he said. And the look of the show, he seemed pleased to report, was informed not by Martin Scorsese or MTV, but by his mentor Robert Penn Warren.

“Have you ever seen moonlight on the Wabash as the diesel rigs boom by? Have you ever wondered how the moonlit continent might look through the tearless and unblinking distance of God’s wide eye,” he quoted Warren over the phone. “I have been working to make sure that the camera is stationed at a tearless and unblinking distance.”
588 2006-11-20 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:

Alesco Financial, 22 million shares. Merrill Lynch and Bear, Stearns & Co.

Infosys Technologies (India), 30 million American depository shares, each representing one equity share. ABN AMRO, Banc America Securities, Deutsche Bank Securities, Goldman, Sachs and J. P. Morgan Securities.

Spirit AeroSystems Holdings, an initial public offering of 52.1 million class A common shares. Credit Suisse, Goldman, Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
589 2006-11-20 When Franco Zeffirelli’s claustrophobic 1981 staging of “La Bohème” returned to the Metropolitan Opera House on Saturday, it was hard not to compare it to Bartlett Sher’s nimble new “Barber of Seville” for the Met. Mr. Sher’s walkway around the orchestra pit brings the action and the intimacy to the foreground. Watching the drama of “La Bohème” unfold in Zeffirelli’s rooftop garret is like peering into a distant, cluttered dollhouse.

And these bohemians sometimes seemed rather wooden. Rolando Villazón, the young Mexican tenor, was believable as the young poet Rodolfo, ardently singing “Che gelida manina” with expressively phrased eloquence. But his usually charismatic presence seemed diminished here, and his voice often lacked heft.

The Chilean soprano Angela Marambio, in her Met debut, was a robust Mimì, which was fortunate, considering that this staging needs a consumptive with lungs strong enough to shout from the rooftops. Her voice was warm and strong in “Mi chiamano Mimì,” yet as she simpered cloyingly at Rodolfo, it seemed as if neither of them really believed in love at first sight.

Mr. Zeffirelli’s ever-popular staging brings opera to the masses by cramming masses onstage, even if the circuslike hubbub of Act II renders the singers almost irrelevant. But for one blissful moment it was as if someone had hit the pause button for instant crowd control. The cavorting Parisians froze in place, allowing the audience to focus on the fine soprano and the feisty, flirtatious Musetta of Patricia Racette, who was substituting for an indisposed Susannah Glanville.

Ms. Racette was a lively counterpart to her jealous lover, Marcello, here sung ably by Peter Coleman-Wright. The other bohemians included the strong, lively Colline of the bass-baritone John Relyea and the baritone Aaron St. Clair Nicholson making his house debut as Schaunard. Paul Plishka, a bass, was effective as both the landlord Benoit and the wealthy Alcindoro.

Act III, with its pretty, snowy set, was the most dramatically and vocally successful, and the chemistry between Mimì and Rodolfo warmed up considerably. But back in the garret Mimì’s death scene seemed stilted, marred by Ms. Marambio’s hackneyed coughs and Mr. Villazón’s somewhat implausible sobs.
590 2006-11-20 On paper, your Jets have a winnable game against all six opponents — Houston (3-7), at Green Bay (4-6), Buffalo (4-6), at Minnesota (4-6), at Miami (4-6) and Oakland (2-8).

That doesn’t mean your Jets will win all six, because N.F.L. games aren’t played on paper, but your Jets are capable of winning all six. If they were to win all six, they would be 11-5, a virtual lock for an A.F.C. wild card. If they were to win five of the six, a 10-6 record might be good enough for a wild card.

So don’t pretend that the word “playoffs” is not in your vocabulary. Don’t make the playoffs a mystery. Make it your goal and your players’ goal. Say the word “playoffs” and repeat it again and again, day after day, meeting after meeting.

When you were on Bill Belichick’s staff with the Patriots, and before that on Bill Parcells’s staff with the Jets, you know they never used that pathetic “p-word” paranoia. They knew how to say “playoffs” loud and clear. They wanted the word “playoffs” imprinted, if not impaled, on their players’ minds.

The playoffs are why pro football teams and pro football players play. And why pro football coaches coach. To make the playoffs. To have a shot at the Super Bowl.

Your word “progress” is a nice word, but progress is merely relative to overall improvement. Progress can mean something or not much of anything, depending on where your team progressed from. But the word “playoffs” is a tangible goal. Making the playoffs means much more than making progress.

Losing to the Bears isn’t something for you or your players to be ashamed of. The Bears are 9-1, by far the best team in the National Football Conference.

Three plays changed yesterday’s game — Bears middle linebacker Brian Urlacher’s end-zone interception of Chad Pennington’s third-and-goal pass from the 6-yard line, your gamble in ordering an onside kickoff to start the second half, and the rookie cornerback Drew Coleman’s slip and fall on quarterback Rex Grossman’s pass to wide receiver Mark Bradley for a 57-yard touchdown.

Pennington, who completed 19 of 35 for only 162 yards, hasn’t been sharp lately, and he knows it.

“But it’s not anything we can’t fix,” he said. “It’s a matter of getting the feel we had early in the season.”

As the head coach, you insisted that Pennington made “a lot of good decisions — a lot of our runs and passes were ‘check with me’ based on the front and the coverage they were giving us. Chad called a lot of good plays.” But the Bears’ defense is considered the best.

Asked if his arm might be tiring after two rotator-cuff operations, Pennington insisted that “physically, I feel good; mentally, this is something I haven’t experienced in my career — the inconsistency.” But it’s certainly not time even to think of benching him for Patrick Ramsey.

As the head coach, you correctly took the blame for the unsuccessful onside kick to start the second half that gave the Bears the ball on the Jets’ 40 before seven consecutive rushes by running back Thomas Jones positioned Robbie Gould’s 20-yard field goal.

“It looked good in practice,” you said of the onside kick. “I think it’s like anything else. If you like something and you like the opportunity, there is a risk involved in everything you do. You have to take a calculated risk.”

The onside kick backfired. So did the blitz that left Coleman out there alone as Bradley sprinted past him to catch the clinching touchdown. And so will all your silliness about not using the “p-word” if you don’t say “playoffs” loud and clear. Say it so your players will know why they’re playing. And why you’re coaching.
591 2006-11-20 Dear Coach,     It's time to stop being coy about refusing to use the ''p-word,'' as in playoffs....
592 2006-11-20 ANOTHER MINING DEAL -- In the latest deal to sweep the mining industry, Phelps Dodge, the world's second-largest copper producer, will be acquired by Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold, a much smaller rival that has been embroiled in environmental a...
593 2006-11-20 South Carolina Coach Steve Spurrier insisted yesterday that he planned to stay in his job and that he had not been contacted about replacing Miami Coach Larry Coker.      Several reports, citing unnamed sources, said Miami was interested in Spurri...
594 2006-11-20 LISS--Henry R., M.D. 81, a Pioneer in Neurosurgery, who in 1965 performed New Jersey's first stereotactic neurosurgery with his partner, Dr. George Zazanis, and served as senior vice president of medical affairs at Overlook Hospital in Summit for ...
595 2006-11-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
596 2006-11-21 Persistence can be an admirable trait. But Nasdaq's months-long wooing of the London Stock Exchange may be wearing thin with some investors, Laurie Kulikowski of TheStreet.com suggests. On Monday, the London exchange rejected Nasdaq's latest takeo...
597 2006-11-21 Investment bank Lazard and a long list of insiders will sell a total of 12 million Lazard shares to the public, the company said Tuesday. At the bank's Monday closing stock price of $45.79, the offering would net about $632 million in proceeds. La...
598 2006-11-21 Sunday's record-breaking buyout of Equity Office Properties Trust had many analysts predicting that yet more real-estate investment trusts will become takeover targets. UBS' Scott Crowe wrote in a research note that the $36 billion deal, in which ...
599 2006-11-21 Alcatel, the world's largest supplier of broadband Internet equipment, sued Microsoft, accusing it of infringing patents for digital video and communication networks. While details of the alleged infringement were not disclosed, the company said t...
600 2006-11-21 David M. Willey, the former finance chief at Capital One Financial, will pay $1.8 million, including an $801,000 fine, to settle insider-trading accusations, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Monday. Mr. Willey exercised almost 148,000 o...
601 2006-11-21 The rumors had been circulating for months that Equity Office Properties, the nation's largest office landlord, might join the parade of publicly traded real estate companies that were being taken private or merging with other public companies. Bu...
602 2006-11-21 The yellow pages directories spin-off from Verizon Communications had a solid debut Monday on Wall Street, with shares climbing more than 7 percent. Idearc finished at $28.20, up $1.95, on volume of 8.2 million shares in composite trading on the N...
603 2006-11-21 For decades, European Union officials have been trying to plug holes that let tax dollars leak out of Europe through investments channeled into so-called offshore banking centers. Switzerland, as the biggest offshore center in the world, often has...
604 2006-11-21 Britain's Office of Communications opened a highly sensitive and unprecedented inquiry into BSkyB's 940 million pound ($1.78 billion) raid on ITV shares yesterday to see whether it was a "change in control." BSkyB is also facing accusations that i...
605 2006-11-21 French media giant Lagardere said Monday it has agreed to buy Sportfive for 865 million euros ($1.1 billion), entering the market for televised soccer rights. France's largest publisher said the acquisition of the European manager of soccer-broadc...
606 2006-11-21 Nasdaq failed to force the London Stock Exchange into merger discussions, leaving the New York company's dreams of a trans-Atlantic market in the hands of the British exchange's shareholders. Just hours after the new $5 billion bid were made publi...
607 2006-11-21 FreshDirect, the online grocery service in New York, claims to sell food for significantly less than local supermarkets. To see if it really does, I put together a small shopping list and compared prices in three places: FreshDirect; a Food Emporium on Broadway in the West 60's; and the Fairway Market at 132nd Street.

The prices at Food Emporium seemed to be typical for a Manhattan supermarket. And FreshDirect beat them, easily. The 10 items on my list – which you can read below – cost $41.18 at FreshDirect, compared with $47.19 at Food Emporium. A small bunch of scallions, for example, cost 99 cents at FreshDirect and $1.59 at the supermarket.

FreshDirect does charge $5 for delivery, while Food Emporium will deliver free. But for a typical weekly shopping list, you won't have any trouble making up that $5 with savings elsewhere. (You can also reduce the FreshDirect delivery fee by buying a "delivery pass" that covers multiple orders.) Besides cost, I've found the vegetables, fruit, meat and fish to be far better at FreshDirect than at Food Emporium.

But regular supermarkets aren't the only option for buying food in New York. There is Fairway, which now has four stores: on the Upper West Side, in Brooklyn, on Long Island and in Harlem. I've shopped frequently at the two in Manhattan and thought that the Harlem store, which is just off the 125th Street exit of the West Side Highway, had better prices than the Upper West Side store. So I looked at the same 10 items at the Harlem store.

It was the clear winner on prices, over both FreshDirect and Food Emporium. (On quality, Fairway and FreshDirect are similar, well ahead of most other supermarkets.) The 10-item basket cost just $32.48 at Fairway. It's really an amazing difference – almost a third less expensive than at Food Emporium.

I imagine that a family doing its regular shopping at FreshDirect, rather than a Manhattan supermarket, could save $20 a week. At Fairway, you might save $50 a week. The bottom line is that this exercise made me think I should almost never shop at a regular Manhattan supermarket.
608 2006-11-21 Ms. Arbour said that on Monday she met Palestinian women and children who felt "terribly exposed, terribly vulnerable, extremely afraid, very abandoned and I have a sense there is the same thing here" in Sderot.

In the hours before Ms. Arbour visited Sderot, the Israeli military carried out a pre-dawn raid in Gaza City, killing a wanted Hamas militant and an elderly woman, Palestinian medical workers said.

The Israeli forces, which included numerous armored vehicles, surrounded the house of the Hamas militant, Ayman Hassanin, 26.

Using loudspeakers, soldiers demanded that he surrender. But Palestinian gunmen began converging on the area and a fierce shootout soon erupted.

Mr. Hassanin was killed, along with Saadia Herez, 70, according to the Palestinian medical workers.

Israeli forces were also operating in two places in the northern Gaza Strip, attempting to suppress rocket fire. An Israeli air strike in Beit Hanun wounded more than 10 Palestinians, according to Palestinian medical workers.

Despite the Israeli presence, the Palestinians still managed five rocket launches today, the Israeli military said.

Also in Gaza, two Italians working for the International Committee of the Red Cross were seized by Palestinians in the southern town of Khan Yunis who stopped their vehicle, according to Palestinian security officials. No group claimed responsibility.

Palestinian militants in Gaza have kidnapped more than two dozen Westerners, most of them aid workers and journalists, in recent years. Most of the cases have been resolved within 24 hours, with the victims released unharmed.

In a separate development, 51 immigrants from India, claiming descent from a biblical "lost tribe," were warmly welcomed today as they arrived in Israel.

The Bnei Menashe have been coming from the remote Mizoram region in northeastern India since the 1990s, and now number about 1,000 in Israel. Many earlier immigrants were on hand to greet relatives who arrived today.

The Bnei Menashe say they are descended from one of the 10 tribes of ancient Israel, which, according to the Bible, were dispersed by the Assyrians more than 2,700 years ago.

However, Israeli religious authorities questioned the Jewish heritage of the Bnei Menashe, and the Interior Ministry halted their immigration in the summer of 2003.

But the authorities now accept them as Jewish, and another 150 are set to land over the next week, with some 7,000 more in India still seeking to come, according to Michael Freund, chairman of Shavei Israel, which has worked to bring the Bnei Menashe here.

"The Bnei Menashe are part of the extended family of the Jewish people," said Mr. Freund. "They are our brothers and sisters, and there is no reason why they should not be allowed."
609 2006-11-21 DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 20 — The Securities and Exchange Commission has started an informal inquiry into the Ford Motor Company’s recent earnings restatement, which was brought on by accounting errors.

In a filing with the S.E.C., Ford said the agency’s Division of Corporation Finance and the Division of Enforcement had contacted the company for additional information about the restatement, which changed Ford’s earnings from 2001 through the third quarter of this year. The restatement reduced by $850 million the amount the automaker had lost since 2001.

An S.E.C. spokesman, John Heine, said Monday that the commission did not comment on pending investigations.

The accounting errors, caused by the way Ford counted interest rate hedging by its financial arm, the Ford Motor Credit Company, narrowed the net loss for the first nine months of this year to $7 billion from the initial report of $7.25 billion, the company said last week. It also reduced the third-quarter net loss to $5.2 billion from a previously reported $5.8 billion.
610 2006-11-21 Texas quarterback Colt McCoy returned to practice yesterday and is expected to start this week against Texas A&M.

Knocked out of the Longhorns’ loss at Kansas State on Nov. 11, McCoy, a freshman, was cleared for Friday’s game, when the No. 11 Longhorns can win the Big 12 South.
611 2006-11-21 A plan for a Europe-wide ban on all trade in cat and dog fur falsely labeled as synthetic and used in clothing, personal accessories and soft toys for children was announced by the European Commission. Markos Kyprianou, the commission’s consumer protection commissioner, said Europeans were shocked by “images of cats and dogs being kept in cages and slaughtered in cruel and shocking conditions for their fur.” An investigation by the animal-rights group Humane Society International showed that dog and cat fur production had taken place in the Czech Republic and other Eastern European countries. China is said to be the main producer, with an estimated 5,400 cats and dogs killed there each day.
612 2006-11-21 The government of Romano Prodi removed the country’s top spy, Nicolò Pollari, the head of Sismi, the military intelligence service. He has been charged in connection with the abduction of an Egyptian cleric, Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr, in Milan by American intelligence agents in 2003. The government also replaced the head of the domestic secret service, Gen. Mario Mori, and the chief of the government intelligence oversight committee, Emilio Del Mese. Mr. Prodi described the removals as a “natural rotation.”
613 2006-11-21 Korean Air Lines, South Korea’s biggest carrier, ordered 25 Boeing planes in its largest deal ever as it seeks to benefit from rising demand for passenger and cargo flights. The carrier ordered 15 short- and long-range passenger aircraft and 10 freighters, which it will begin receiving in 2009, it said. The airline said the order was valued at as much as $5.5 billion at list prices.
614 2006-11-21 Amazon declined to say how many Nintendo Wiis it sold over the weekend. But it said it was true to its promise to put them on sale Sunday morning.

“Everything went off without a hitch on our end,” said Craig Berman, an Amazon spokesman. “If folks waited up, we certainly appreciate them and love their passion for wanting to buy a product from Amazon.”

While many shoppers chose the online route, several thousand others camped out in the flesh at stores around the country, hoping to become the first to own Nintendo’s new machine. Last week, prospective owners of another new video game console, PlayStation 3 from Sony, also waited in line for a day or more.

The introductions bring the start of a new generation of game consoles, pitting Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft against one another, and the hype has led to high demand among gamers chasing a limited supply. The PlayStation was especially scarce and sold out almost immediately on Amazon and elsewhere. Nintendo has said it will ship millions of Wiis by the end of the year.

When shopping for hot or deeply discounted items in the real world, of course, people can drive up to a store and survey the length of the line in the parking lot, then choose whether or not to fight the crowds for the low-cost television or the dress or suit in just the right size. In the virtual world, shoppers can end up pointing, clicking and hoping.

The issue may become more significant as more online retailers try using doorbusters. Amazon plans its first doorbuster sale this Thursday morning at 11 a.m., offering a limited supply of a highly discounted item. It invited customers to vote for their pick from a list of four, and the front- runner is 1,000 Xbox 360 game consoles for $100, down from $300.

The promise of that sale has led a number of people on Amazon discussion boards to figure out if they can set the clocks on their own computers to be precisely synchronized with Amazon’s internal clock. That way, they theorized in online postings, they can better their chances of beating out the competition.

Wal-Mart also plans to use virtual doorbusters to draw people to its site next week. Patti Freeman Evans, a retail analyst at Jupiter Research, said online retailers had used “limited supply” sales for some time but that, increasingly, they are learning from and mimicking the success of offline retail sales strategies.

Ms. Freeman said the doorbuster strategy can pose some challenges for online retailers — and not just because they do not have doors. She said that for one thing, customers cannot see how far back they are in line, making it hard to tell whether they will get an item.

She said that to help customers, Amazon and others would be well served to be clear about what time the sales start. “If they can be a little more specific, it gives customers a chance to plan,” she said.

That would have helped Vanessa Castillo of Miami, who wrote on Amazon’s site that she felt like she “wasted a whole night” on the site with nothing to show for it.

For his part, Mr. Punsalan thought that buying online would make him smarter, and warmer, than his friends who decided to line up at a store. While they spent the night on the sidewalk, he moved from desk to couch to bed with his laptop.

When he grew tired of constantly refreshing the Amazon page, Mr. Punsalan put on the DVD of “The Da Vinci Code” and watched while trying to shop. Eventually he went to bed, slept through an alarm and was back on the site at 8. Soon he spotted a change on the page indicating that Wii sales had begun. He tried to buy one but was told they were “not available.”

Mr. Punsalan’s friends who waited outside in the cold got their Wiis and the last laugh. To make matters worse, Mr. Punsalan said his girlfriend felt he should not spend more time hunting for a Wii in stores after wasting a whole night in front of the computer. “She said, ‘You lost your chance on Amazon.’ ”
615 2006-11-21 Reaching a deal with London could help Nasdaq overtake the New York Stock Exchange’s parent NYSE Group in Europe. The New York exchange and Euronext, a network of four European stock markets and a London derivatives market, are expected to ask shareholders for final approval of their planned merger in December.

This is the second time this year that Nasdaq has offered to acquire the London exchange. In March, London rejected an informal offer of £9.50 a share. On Monday, Nasdaq made an offer of £12.43 a share ($23.57), up more than 30 percent from March, but only 2 percent above the London exchange’s closing stock price of £12.18 on Friday.

Much has changed since March, though. London’s shareholders have rapidly turned over, and as many as a third of its investors now are thought to be hedge funds, chiefly concerned not with a company’s long-term business strategy but with the highest short-term return.

“It is difficult to see how this is not going to go through,” said Lynton Jones, a former head of Nasdaq’s international operations and a founder of Bourse Consult in London, which advises stock exchanges. “The London exchange is boxed into a corner.”

But Nasdaq may still need to sweeten its offer. Apparently anticipating a higher bid, investors bid up the shares of the London Stock Exchange 6 percent on Monday, to £12.91.

Andrew Mitchell, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kelton in London, said, “It’s not obvious where the L.S.E. can move next, but by not entering into negotiations with Nasdaq, they have put them in an awkward position.” Nasdaq, he said, might be forced to offer more.

Yet officials at ratings agencies said that paying more could be dangerous for Nasdaq. One agency, Moody’s Investors Service, put Nasdaq on review for a possible downgrading because of any additional debt that the company might take on.

Nasdaq has now accumulated nearly 29 percent of the London exchange’s shares, enough to scare away rival suitors. It needs just over 50 percent to win control.

Doug Atkin, chief executive of Majestic Research in New York, said “the really powerful thing about this is there is no alternative” for Nasdaq rivals who hope to match the deal.

He added that Clara Furse, the chief executive of the London exchange, had “the equivalent of the only beachfront property in town.”

And London has been reluctant to sell. The 246-year-old exchange has turned down offers in recent years from the Macquarie Bank of Australia, Deutsche Börse of Germany and OM, owner of Nordic region markets.

In a statement Monday, Ms. Furse said, “Nasdaq’s final offer fails to recognize the outstanding growth record and prospects of our group on a stand-alone basis, let alone the exchange’s unique global position.”

Nasdaq replied that it was “disappointed” by the London exchange’s decision.

Its chief executive, Robert Greifeld, said during a call with investors that he would like to reach a deal with the approval of the London exchange’s board. He ran off a long list of concessions he would make in a takeover, including leaving the London Stock Exchange’s board independent, its management intact and holding Nasdaq board meetings in London. Nasdaq would also list its shares on the London exchange.

He said Nasdaq “respects the strength of the London market” and will ensure that it continues its same practices. Mr. Greifeld also pledged not to raise broker-dealer fees for users of either market for three years. Nasdaq plans to use a combination of cash, preferred stock and bank debt arranged with Bank of America and Dresdner Kleinwort to finance the deal.

Nasdaq expects to post an official offer this week, at which time London Stock Exchange holders have 28 days to tender their shares. That period can be extended to 60 days. In addition, 30 days after posting a formal offer, Nasdaq can buy more shares of the London exchange on the market.

If Nasdaq succeeds, both it and the New York Stock Exchange would face competition on other fronts. The global investment banks — Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS — have formally disclosed their plan to start a electronic European exchange. Predictions that such a market could take business away from the London Stock Exchange have recently weakened its share price.

Underlining the increasingly global market for stocks and futures, and a growing demand for cheap trading across time zones, both the New York and the London exchanges are in talks with the Tokyo stock market over possible alliances.

On Monday, the British government said it was open to foreign ownership in London but stressed that any takeover must not threaten the current regulatory framework.

"We are neutral with respect to the nationality of the ownership of the L.S.E.," said Ed Balls, economic secretary to the chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown. “Our interest in the ownership of the L.S.E. is that it should not affect the existing risk-based regulatory regime under which the exchange and its members and issuers operate.”
616 2006-11-21 “The ‘markets’ that are rolling off the commission’s production line are not fit for their public purpose,” wrote Robert A. Weishaar Jr., the lawyer for the industrial companies.

The commission dismisses the critics, saying that where it has determined that a market for electricity exists, the prices in that market are assumed to be “just and reasonable,” the standard set in federal law. The commission’s rules seek to curb monopoly power, but not oligopoly power, in which a few firms control the market. The commission says that anyone manipulating markets will be discovered either by the monitors in each regional market, by competitors or utilities that buy power, by the commission or even by the public.

Allowing producers of electricity to compete for utility customers should assure the lowest possible price, the commission says.

But the opposite has sometimes been true.

For eight hours last May, for example, the price of a megawatt of power in New England leaped from about $50 to almost $1,000. The region’s electricity exchange attributes the spike to congested transmission lines, but has kept the identities of the high bidders secret.

Its own studies say that the exchange’s rules make it possible to inflate prices artificially during periods of high demand and that at least one producer has manipulated prices in the past, though its identity was not disclosed.

Officials of other exchanges all said they had strict rules to ensure that capacity is not withheld from the market to inflate prices artificially.

But critics of the current system have found ammunition in a study at Carnegie Mellon University by Sarosh N. Talukdar, who used computer models to simulate a market in which 10 utilities bought electricity and 10 producers sold it.

In that experiment, the buyers and sellers learned to manipulate the price within 100 rounds of bidding, capturing from 50 percent to 90 percent of the prices an unregulated monopoly would have charged. Instead of falling, prices soared.

Earlier experiments at Cornell University and George Mason University found the same thing, with simulated trading by students, professors and even members of Congress.

Such high prices suggest collusion, which is illegal in real markets, but collusion was impossible in Professor Talukdar’s experiments because the trades were made by simple computer programs, not humans.

“My studies show it is easy to learn from the signals given by others how to get the benefits of colluding without breaking the law,” Professor Talukdar said.

“Economists have this faith in markets, this blind faith that markets are always a good thing,” the professor said, “but the design of markets matters a great deal and the design must be verified to see if it really works as a free market.”

Professor Frank A. Wolak, a Stanford University economist who favors competitive pricing, said the current mix of markets for wholesale power and regulated utilities to deliver them cannot produce the benefits of competition. And he warned that “even small flaws in the design of markets can cause enormous harm to consumers in very little time.”

Why have prices not fallen in the electricity market, when prices dropped sharply after competition was introduced in other previously regulated industries?

Rising fuel costs are one major reason. But the electricity market also turns out to be different in some fundamental ways from other kinds of markets. Efforts to induce competition, the critics say, have failed to properly take that into account.

In the markets for everything from stocks and commodities to real estate, airline trips and trucking services, for example, buyers always have the option to walk away from a deal — whether the purchase be company shares, frozen pork bellies, houses, plane tickets or space in a tractor-trailer.

But many utilities in about half the states, including New York, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland and Texas, must buy power every day — usually because they were encouraged or forced by regulators to sell their own generating plants and no longer produce electricity themselves.

And every utility must buy power at some point, to meet peak demand on hot summer days.

Unlike the stock market, where vast numbers of strangers buy and sell, the electricity markets involve a relative handful of buyers and sellers. In New Jersey, for example, just 10 generators won bids this year to supply a third of the state’s base load of power for the next three years at prices 55 percent higher than the previous year’s three-year bid.

Similarly, California has 1,400 power plants, but ownership of those plants is so concentrated that just six generating companies in that state can set an artificially high price of electricity virtually all the time, research by Carnegie Mellon University shows.

Moreover, in many markets some buyers and sellers are related, a corporate parent owning generating plants that sell to a sister utility. Often the bidders are brokers, including Wall Street investment houses like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, and that arrangement hides the identity of the real power generators.

Trades also repeat each day, which means that those that generate power learn from not just what the weather report says about demand for power, but from the trading patterns of their competitors in producing power and the utilities that buy it.

Another important aspect is secrecy. Individual stock investors can make sure they got a fair price by checking the prices paid just before and after their trade. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the electricity exchanges stamp many trading records confidential.

The federal commission’s spokesman, like those for several of the exchanges on which electricity is bought and sold, said that market monitors employed by the electricity exchanges ensure the integrity of the trades. But utility customers have challenged whether the monitors are blind to price rigging and errors.

Another factor is the very nature of electricity, which must be produced, transmitted and consumed in an instant. Car makers can cut production when vehicles do not sell. Investors who hold too much of a particular stock can sell it in blocks over time to get the best price. But electricity cannot be held in inventory.

Finally, the electricity market appears to be particularly balanced on a fine edge. The Chadbourne Park law firm, in a newsletter for investors in electricity generating stations, cautioned that tiny changes in generating capacity could make them rich or wipe them out. It concluded that having 2 percent more generating capacity than a market needed to meet demand would mean “very low electricity prices,” while a 2 percent shortage of electricity would cause “significant price spikes,” which means outsize profits for power plant owners.
617 2006-11-21 David M. Willey, the former finance chief at the Capital One Financial Corporation, will pay $1.8 million, including an $801,000 fine, to settle insider-trading accusations, the Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday.

Mr. Willey exercised almost 148,000 options on Capital One stock through swaps and cashless transactions, and sold 60,200 shares on the market in May 2002, after learning that federal regulators planned to downgrade their assessment of the bank’s overall condition, the S.E.C. said yesterday in a statement.

Capital One shares fell 40 percent two months later when the company announced that regulators were forcing it to increase reserves for loan losses, the S.E.C. said.

Mr. Willey arranged the transactions without telling other executives about the regulators’ concerns, according to the complaint. He knew that when others learned of the problems, Capital One’s standard policy would have been to ban trading by top executives, the S.E.C. said. He also failed to disclose some transactions in a regulatory filing.

A lawyer for Mr. Willey, William Mann of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw in Washington, declined to comment.

Mr. Willey, who resigned from Capital One in 2003, did not admit or deny the accusations, the S.E.C. said. Besides the fine, Mr. Willey will forfeit his profits on the trades, plus interest.
618 2006-11-21 NEW DELHI, Nov. 20 — A new report by a government panel accuses King Gyanendra of Nepal and others in his administration of committing rights abuses during pro-democracy protests in April and urges that the king be punished.

The protests forced the ouster of Gyanendra’s government and the restoration of an elected Parliament that had been removed four years earlier. Since then, the interim government has handed a series of defeats to the king, including ending his control over the army.

The report has not been formally released, but people familiar with its contents spoke to reporters about it on Monday.

Gyanendra’s ultimate test will come when the nation goes to the polls next year to elect a constituent assembly, which is expected to decide the fate of the monarchy. While some political parties favor a ceremonial role for the king, leftist parties, along with Maoist guerrillas, insist on the monarchy’s abolition.

King Gyanendra did not accept an invitation from the government commission to respond to its findings. The panel also found 201 officials in the royal administration responsible for a violent crackdown on protesters last April, including senior police and army officials.

It is unclear how Nepal will pursue legal proceedings against the king, who for generations has been regarded as a human incarnation of a Hindu god. A member of the panel, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the report has yet to be made public, said the commission had urged the government to draft new regulations to try the king.

The Maoist rebels, who are expected to sign a peace agreement this week, have been taken to task recently as well. On Sunday, the United Nations issued a statement expressing concern about the Maoists’ continued recruitment of children.
619 2006-11-21 While many real estate specialists were marveling at the size of the transaction, James S. Corl, the chief investment officer for real estate at Cohen & Steers, complained that Blackstone’s price was too low. An investment fund that specializes in REIT stocks, Cohen & Steers is Equity Office’s largest shareholder, with $1.4 billion worth of stock.

Based on rising office rents, the replacement value of the Equity Office portfolio and the price that real estate is commanding overseas, Mr. Corl said the company was worth more than $60 a share. He suggested that other suitors might emerge. “I think this is far from over,” he said.

Dismissing Mr. Corl’s contention that he was selling on the cheap, Mr. Zell noted that until just recently, analysts had been sour on Equity Office. “When the stock was at $25 a share — and was the most hated stock in the REIT index — he didn’t say those things,” he said.

But Barry Vinocur, the editor of Realty Stock Review, said that several real estate professionals told him yesterday that the deal should have fetched a higher price.

A contest is under way for another office REIT, Reckson Associates Realty. Last week, the investor Carl C. Icahn and a private company bid $4.6 billion for the REIT, topping a pending $4 billion offer from SL Green. The offer is contingent on the company’s review of Reckson’s books.

In terms of overall returns — stock price appreciation plus reinvested dividends — Equity Office, with a 51 percent gain, has outperformed the office REIT sector so far this year, at 37 percent. But its long-term performance has lagged, according to SNL. The company had total returns of 109 percent during the last five years, compared with 150 percent for the office sector and 183 percent for all equity REITs.

Mr. Lindemann said Blackstone’s offer represented a “substantial” premium for Equity Office. “Wall Street didn’t think the stock was worth that much,” he said.

In fact, Mr. Zell has long complained that Wall Street “savants” had placed too low a value on Equity Office. The Blackstone offer represents “a serious indictment of the analytical community,” he said.

A public company since 1997, Equity Office grew by buying other large portfolios in markets across the country. Mr. Zell, considered a pioneer, sought to appeal to corporate tenants by offering them one-stop shopping for all their office space. But analysts said this notion never caught on because office buildings, unlike shopping centers, do not easily lend themselves to branding.

In the last few years, Equity Office quit markets like Salt Lake City and Fort Worth, that it no longer viewed as promising and tried to strengthen its presence in stronger markets like New York and Washington. Recently, Equity Office bought the office portion of 1540 Broadway, formerly known as the Bertelsmann Building, in Midtown Manhattan for $525.1 million.

Last year, the company bought 1095 Avenue of the Americas, a nondescript 41-story building, also in Midtown, for $505 million and said it would spend another $260 million to remodel it. Initially, the venture looked risky, but rents and real estate prices in Midtown have been rising at a dizzying pace while space is tightening. Metropolitan Life Insurance is expected to move nearly 1,300 employees into the building, where annual rents are $80 a square foot.

As further evidence of the hot Midtown market, Boston Properties, another real estate investment trust, said yesterday that it had agreed to sell 5 Times Square, an office building it developed in 2002, for $1.28 billion to the AVR Realty Company, a Yonkers company that also owns the Brill Building near Times Square.

If Blackstone’s deal goes through, the New York company, founded in 1985 by Peter G. Peterson and Stephen A. Schwarzman, would become one of the nation’s largest real estate owners. But based on its practice with other REIT purchase, the company can be expected to sell large chunks of the Equity Office portfolio.

And Mr. Zell himself is hardly making his exit from the real estate business. He remains the chairman of three other publicly traded real estate companies, Equity Office Residential, the nation’s largest apartment REIT; Equity Lifestyle Properties, which owns mobile home parks; and Capital Trust, which specializes in real estate finance.
620 2006-11-21 PISCATAWAY, N.J., Nov. 20 — If Steve Spurrier were the athletic director at the University of Miami, Rutgers might have had to give Coach Greg Schiano a raise Monday.

But because Spurrier is the football coach at South Carolina, Rutgers does not have to change Schiano’s contract, at least not for the next 72 hours.

Miami plays its last game of the regular season Thursday night, and Spurrier seems to assume, like many others, that Coach Larry Coker will be fired, possibly by Friday afternoon.

Asked about his own interest in the Miami job Sunday night on a weekly conference call, Spurrier said that Schiano should be the leading candidate.

After Schiano was made aware of Spurrier’s endorsement, he sounded more amused than flattered.

“Steve is 61 years old and he has won a lot of games,” Schiano said Monday. “That’s a good position to be in. What does he care? He says what’s on his mind.”

Of course, there is a chance that Miami is thinking the same way as Spurrier. Not only has Schiano guided Rutgers to a 9-1 record this season, but he also worked two years as the Hurricanes’ defensive coordinator and still does much of his recruiting in South Florida.
621 2006-11-21 In writing of ways in which Democrats are “idiotic,” Maureen Dowd gives the example of Nancy Pelosi’s “acting on relationships” instead of strategy (“Squeaker of the House,” column, Nov. 18).

I don’t see this as particularly Democratic (or feminine). The Bush administration has given new, mind-boggling meaning to cronyism, and what is that about but relationships?

I am also disheartened by the idea of giving a “rival” a position and then taking away everything that person needs to be effective, as a Pelosi supporter is quoted as suggesting: “All of a sudden their office is moved and their wires are disconnected and there’s a Playskool phone on their desk, so that it’s not even worth having the job anymore.”

Sabotaging salaried representatives — a nice use of taxpayers’ money. Are there no adults on Capitol Hill?

Two lines in Maureen Dowd’s column say it all: “It reminded you of just how idiotic Republicans can act sometimes,” and, “It reminded you of just how idiotic Democrats can act sometimes.”
622 2006-11-21 Now tens of thousands of Iraqis seeking to escape the violence that has consumed their country have fled into Syria, creating their own schools, neighborhoods and communities there.

Violence continued to claim Iraqi lives at a rapid pace. Authorities said that 90 Iraqis were killed across Iraq on Monday, including 60 who were found dead in and around Baghdad. An elderly priest visiting a church in Naariya, an area in southern Baghdad, was kidnapped, a police official in the area said.

Among the dead was the host of a popular comedy show, Walid Hassan Jiaaz, who poked fun at post-invasion Iraqi life. He was shot dead by gunmen in western Baghdad. A deputy health minister, Hakim al-Zameli, a supporter of the militant Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, escaped assassination when his convoy came under attack; two of his guards were killed.

A week after the mass kidnapping of employees at the Ministry of Higher Education compound in Baghdad, the fate of those still missing remained unclear. Interior Minister Jawad Bolani said the kidnapping was not motivated by sectarian hatred, but gave no details on what might have been the reason for the act. He said a preliminary investigation showed that the kidnappers might have had help from someone inside the ministry itself.

During their meeting on Monday, Mr. Maliki used stern words in urging Mr. Moallem to take more serious steps in preventing Sunni Arab militants from crossing his country’s border into Iraq, the prime minister’s office said.

“We want to set a kind of relation with them to protect our people from the violence that was coming from them,” said a Shiite politician who had been involved in the talks. Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the chief spokesman for the American military command here, said Monday that Syrians made up about 20 percent of the 670 foreign fighters in custody here.

The United States withdrew its ambassador from Damascus in February 2005, after the assassination of Rafik Harriri, the former Lebanese prime minister. But as the Bush administration considers policy alternatives in Iraq, allies like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain are encouraging it to reopen dialogue with Syria and Iran.

In some ways, it has already started. Mr. Moallem met with former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who is co-chairman of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, in a hotel in New York in September and discussed what role Syria could play in helping to stabilize Iraq, the Syrian ambassador to the United States said.

Although the United States and Iran have been at odds over Tehran’s nuclear program, Bush administration officials have signaled that they would be willing to discuss Iraqi issues. Last week in testimony before Congress, David Satterfield, the State Department’s coordinator of Iraq policy, said that with respect to Iran, “we are prepared, in principle, to discuss Iranian activities in Iraq.”

He added, “The timing of such a direct dialogue is one we still have under review.”

At a news conference with one of Iraq’s most powerful Shiite leaders, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, Mr. Moallem said that relations between the two countries were still strained.

“I didn’t come to Baghdad to satisfy the United States,” he said. “I’m not a mediator for the United States in the region.”
623 2006-11-21 Even a slight difference in the lengths of a person’s legs may play a role in whether arthritis develops, researchers have found. But the nature of the link is unclear.

“We can’t say for sure whether a leg length difference of about two centimeters is actually going to cause you to get arthritis,” said the lead author of the study, Dr. Joanne M. Jordan of the Thurston Arthritis Research Center at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

But the study, presented at a recent conference of the American College of Rheumatology, suggests that at a minimum, differing lengths may be enough to worsen arthritis.

The researchers made the finding as part of a long-term study of arthritis involving more than 3,000 volunteers. Of these, 210 had a difference in leg length of two centimeters or more.

While that might seem like a lot, Dr. Jordan said it was not uncommon. She said those who had such differences seldom noticed it because their gaits adjusted to take account of it.

The study found that people with legs of different lengths were more likely to have arthritis in the hip and, especially, the knee. Among people with hip arthritis, those with severe cases were also more likely to have legs of different lengths.
624 2006-11-21 By resurrecting characters born decades ago — the original “Rocky” swept him to stardom in 1976, as Jimmy Carter was preparing to take office — Mr. Stallone may well rally some support from baby boomers who are similarly reluctant to leave the stage. But the gambit also leaves Mr. Stallone and his collaborators considerably exposed.

“We won an Academy Award for ‘Rocky’ and sent all our kids through college, and it means a lot to us,” said Irwin Winkler, a producer of the original film and an executive producer of the new one. “We didn’t want to be embarrassed. Even after we’d finished the picture and knew it was good, we worried about whether it was an easy target for jokes.”

In “Rocky Balboa,” which has begun screening for the press, Mr. Stallone seeks to undercut the absurdity of pitting an ancient boxer against a young champion by casting the showcase bout as an exhibition fight, and by approaching the script with self-awareness and humor. “They’re playing around with the fact that he’s an old guy coming back, joking about it, and that works well,” said Peter Sealey, a former film executive who is now a professor of marketing at University of California, Berkeley. “I think this one has a shot.”

Mr. Stallone has also tried to widen Rocky’s audience by going virtual. Rocky is drawn back to the ring after a national sports show features a digital boxing match between Rocky Balboa and the current champ, Mason (the Line) Dixon. “It’s a high-technology, Google-blogging, iMac-type of premise going on there mixed with the classic underdog versus the establishment,” offered Mr. Sealey.

But the story’s drive comes from its obvious attempt to grapple with irrelevance. “Maybe you’re doing your job, but why do you got to stop me from doing mine?” the superannuated Rocky demands at one point of boxing commissioners who are reluctant to license him.

“This movie is about a man who doesn’t feel he’s all washed up because he’s 60 years old,” Mr. Winkler said. “And about a man who doesn’t feel he should be ignored or will be ignored because he’s getting on with his life.”

Mr. Stallone, whose brightest spots lately have been a turn as the toymaker in “Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over” and his appearances on the reality boxing show “The Contender,” acknowledges that there were very few real film projects for him before “Rocky Balboa.”

But he was not yet ready to accept obsolescence, even if that meant risking ridicule by turning back to the past. “Every generation runs its course, and they are expected to step aside for the next generation,” Mr. Stallone said. “My peers are going through it right now, and they feel they have much to contribute, but the opportunity is no longer there. They’re considered obsolete, and it’s just not true. This film is about how we still have something more to say.”
625 2006-11-21 Even though, by chance, the nonrunners had more benign moles and freckles and significantly higher sun sensitivity as determined by eye color and skin shade, the runners had more solar lentigines and more lesions suggestive of basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas, two less aggressive skin cancers. The study appears in the November issue of The Archives of Dermatology.

Sun exposure may not be the only risk factor that distance runners face. The authors write that although there is no question that regular exercise is important to good health, there is good evidence that high-intensity training and excessive exercise can lead to suppressed immune function.

“This is quite well established,” Dr. Ambros-Rudolph said. “Many alterations in immune cell function have been noted at the cellular level in marathon runners.

“For example, there is the association between excessive exercise and immunosuppression reflected in the increased incidence and severity of upper respiratory tract infections in marathon runners after races.”

The exact mechanism is unknown, but there is evidence that trauma sustained during extreme exercise can induce the release of cytokines, proteins that can stimulate the growth and activity of various immune cells and that may limit the ability of the immune system to fight potential cancers.

Clinical examination by dermatologists showed that none of the participants had lesions that suggested malignant melanoma. But 24 of the marathon group and 14 of the control group were referred for surgical treatment of lesions that appeared to be basal or squamous cell carcinomas or the precancerous lesions called actinic keratoses. Follow-up reports on these patients were not available because of the limits in Austrian laws on personal privacy.

About a third of the marathoners ran up to 25 miles a week, and nearly half ran 25 to 45 miles. Almost 15 percent ran more than 45 miles a week. Those who trained the most intensively had the highest rates of skin lesions.

Almost all the runners dressed in clothing that exposed the legs, arms, shoulders and upper back, and only about half used sunscreen regularly.

Physical exercise on sunny days can be more harmful to the skin than other kinds of sun exposure, the authors suggest, because sweating may significantly increase the sensitivity of the skin to ultraviolet radiation, making sunburn more likely. Moisture on the skin reduces the UV light to shorter wavelengths that are more easily absorbed and decreases their reflection and dispersion.

Dr. Ambros-Rudolph emphasized that the main problem, for both casual runners and extreme exercisers, is sun exposure.

“We hear a lot about sun exposure and skin cancer,” she said. “But we forget about it when participating in outdoor sports. Sunscreen alone is not the ultimate answer. It’s also important to wear reasonable gear that covers the shoulders and upper back, and to avoid training in peak sun hours.”
626 2006-11-21 India's manufacturing grew 12.1 percent in the first half of the country's fiscal year, which ended in September, compared with 9.5 percent in the period last year. The fast-paced growth of the manufacturing sector has been important in raising In...
627 2006-11-21 BSkyB, the satellite television company affiliated with the News Corporation, has bought a 17.9 percent stake in ITV, Britain's biggest commercial broadcaster, in a move that could thwart the ambitions of Richard Branson, the Virgin Group entrepre...
628 2006-11-21 To the Editor:     In writing of ways in which Democrats are ''idiotic,'' Maureen Dowd gives the example of Nancy Pelosi's ''acting on relationships'' instead of strategy (''Squeaker of the House,'' column, Nov. 18).      I don't see this as parti...
629 2006-11-21 ENVY IN SILICON VALLEY -- Envy may be a sin in some books, but it is a powerful driving force in Silicon Valley. And now that Google's purchase of YouTube for $1.65 billion has amplified talk of a second dot-com boom, many high-tech entrepreneurs ...
630 2006-11-21 The government of Romano Prodi removed the country's top spy, Nicolò Pollari, the head of Sismi, the military intelligence service. He has been charged in connection with the abduction of an Egyptian cleric, Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr, in Milan by...
631 2006-11-22 Restaurants openings that aren't....
632 2006-11-22 The head of global stocks at the Citadel Investment Group, a $12 billion Chicago-based hedge fund, has left the firm, amid rumors that that the fund had lost money in the energy market, The New York Times reported. The move came a surprise as Anan...
633 2006-11-22 Less than three weeks after they reached an accord hailed as proof that rival software companies could work together, the chief executives of Novell and Microsoft are engaged in an unusual public dispute. Explaining the agreement at a software dev...
634 2006-11-22 Alesco Financial debuted as a public company Tuesday as underwriters priced 26.4 million shares at $9 apiece. Underwriters, led by Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns, were granted an over-allotment option to sell an additional 3.96 million shares. Go ...
635 2006-11-22 NYSE Group made a major concession Tuesday in its bid to get Euronext investors to approve a combination of the two exchanges, agreeing to evenly split the board between Europeans and Americans. The New York Stock Exchange, which previously was ex...
636 2006-11-22 Acacia Newlon-Yafai, a 20-year-old student at the University of California, Los Angeles, is one of them. She searches Web sites like cheaptickets.com for low fares, signs up at airline sites to receive fare-sale alerts via e-mail message, and only travels when the price is right.

A month ago, a Southwest Airlines service called “Ding!” sent her an e-mail message about a $128 roundtrip fare to San Jose, where her family lives and her holiday plans were set. “If you look awhile, you can figure it out,” Ms. Newlon-Yafai said. “If you want to fly two weeks in advance, you can’t do that.”

Such hard-nosed shopping is on the rise. About 25 percent of air travelers consult online newsletters and other sources of special deals before buying, up from 17 percent last year, according to Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. And 17 percent of travelers use Web sites like kayak.com, itasoftware.com or sidestep.com, which scour other Internet sites for travel deals.

“Consumers have access to more and more information,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “It’s exactly what airlines don’t want consumers to have.”

In the long-term, the sharp fare increases this year likely will be an anomaly. The 15 percent rise in fares, after all, resulted in large part from a sharp contraction of airline fleets brought on by bankruptcies and a drop in air travel after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. In coming years, the growth of Internet fare shopping, and the expansion of low-cost airlines will likely help moderate price increases.

Southwest Airlines, for example, acquired 36 additional Boeing 737s this year and expected to acquire 37 next year, growing as some traditional airlines have shrunken.

“We don’t have enough aircraft,” said Gary C. Kelly, chief executive of Southwest, the biggest low-cost carrier.

Andry Ramandraivonona, an investment banker who lives on the Upper East Side in Manhattan, booked flights to Boston for himself, his wife and their two small children two weeks ago, using itasoftware.com. He paid $100 roundtrip for each.

The family would like to go home to Paris for Christmas, but was put off by the $1,700-per-person cost. “It’s a bit prohibitive,” Mr. Ramandraivonona said. They may delay the trip or make them go sooner.

Leisure fares, those bought far in advance with restrictions, averaged $90 one-way last week on domestic routes, 9 percent lower than a year earlier and the 10th consecutive week of decline for leisure prices, according to Harrell Associates, a travel consulting firm in New York.

Business fares, which are typically booked at the last minute and carry few restrictions, averaged $479 one-way last week on domestic routes, 8 percent higher than a year earlier. But the rate of increase has slowed markedly from spring and summer when business fares were rising by 20 percent or more over the same periods a year ago.

While the tide is shifting toward consumers on prices, they should probably give up hope of counting on an empty seat next to them when they fly. The number of planes in the fleets of airlines in the United States is growing only slowly. And a reason consumers are able to find more deals online is that airlines are using such systems to fill seats that might go vacant. After all, any revenue they can bring in for a seat is better than nothing.

Industry analysts said that flights could very well average close to 80 percent full for years to come, which means that those on popular routes at convenient times are typically 100 percent full.

One thing could, however, send fares back up sharply, at least temporarily. US Airways offered last week to buy Delta Air Lines, which is operating in bankruptcy, for about $8 billion. US Airways has said it would reduce the carrier’s combined fleets by about 10 percent if the deal goes through.

Taking 80 or so big jetliners out of service would allow the combined airline — and others — to raise fares because there would be less competition in some markets. Delta is opposing the bid and wants to remain independent.

Higher fares appear to have affected many people’s travel plans this year. Many more bought tickets to fly on Thanksgiving Day, arriving at family gatherings a little later but at lower cost, according to Sabre, which operates a vast computer reservation system. And skipping grandma’s house altogether was also more popular, as Las Vegas rose to the No. 3 travel destination over the holiday, from No. 8 last year, Sabre said.

When airlines put their fare information online years ago, their main goal was to cut out traditional travel agents to save the commissions they paid them. But many airlines were surprised to learn how much time consumers were willing to spend shopping for fares.

Steve Kronick, an emergency room physician in Ann Arbor, Mich., said he searched Internet sites for weeks this summer to find affordable seats to take his wife and two children to Seattle to see friends this week. They paid $1,400 for four roundtrip tickets on Northwest Airlines after Dr. Kronick consulted farecast.com, which tries to tell consumers the best time to buy an air fare.

“I don’t know how accurate it is,” Dr. Kronick said. “But it makes you feel better.”

George W. Evans, a graduate business student at Emory University in Atlanta, paid $500, about $100 more than last year, for a roundtrip flight this week to visit family in Pelham, N.Y. Earlier this year, he worked on a class project about Delta Air Lines and was part of a group of students who presented their work to some Delta executives.

“They told us their strategy this year was going to be to raise fares,” he said. “I heard it from the horse’s mouth. It was right after I bought my tickets. I felt used.”

Even with the higher fares, of course, the airline industry remains deeply troubled after more than $30 billion of losses in recent years. And air fares, compared with the rising prices of many other goods and services, have remained quite cheap over time.

Kiki Morris, who works in the entertainment industry in Los Angeles, paid $500 a month ago for her ticket to New York on JetBlue Airways. She usually pays $100 for a Lincoln Town Car just to get her to the airport in Los Angeles, but this time took a regular taxi, for $50, instead.

The price to fly one mile on an airliner, about 12 cents on average domestically, has changed little over the last 20 years. And, taking inflation into account, prices have fallen by nearly half.

“Air fares are so cheap,” said Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights. “A brake job on your car at the dealer is like $500 now. The airlines are just killing each other on these fares.”

Still, for many, fares are high enough that the ability to travel is limited. “It made me decide between Thanksgiving and Christmas,” said Tammy Rowe, 30, a public relations worker in Chicago who flew to Atlanta yesterday to meet family. “I noticed back in the spring and summer that fares were kind of jacked up.”

Ramona Collins, 33, of Flushing, N.Y., flew to visit her brother in Arkansas yesterday on Northwest Airlines. Her roundtrip ticket cost $402, she said, purchased in mid-October on kayak.com. “It was probably at least $100 more than last year,” she said.

“It makes me think about not going anywhere for Christmas,” she said. Normally, she would go to Arkansas to see her parents.

She is reconsidering, and added, “They don’t know that yet.”
637 2006-11-22 A dominating victory over the defending Stanley Cup champions did wonders for the Rangers (12-9-1). Carolina (12-8-3) came in having won five of six games and its roster includes several of the N.H.L.’s most dangerous scorers.

But those scorers came up empty and the game quickly became all about the Rangers. Jaromir Jagr scored twice to give him 11 goals and a league-leading 34 points. Brendan Shanahan scored his league-leading 17th goal of his remarkable season. And forward Marcel Hossa scored his first goal since last season.

But shutting out Carolina took a combination of scoring, a tough defense and Lundqvist’s returning to his old self. He narrowly missed his first shutout of the season in Sunday’s 4-1 victory over Tampa Bay by letting in a goal on a breakaway with 2 minutes 40 seconds to play.

“It’s important for the fact that he’s taken some heat, more for the performance of the team, not necessarily for him,” said defenseman Aaron Ward, who played for Carolina last season. “It’s great to see him step up and play against a team that just won the Stanley Cup and is on a roll like that.”

Lundqvist has started his own roll. He said the spark came before the Rangers played at Florida early this month, when he talked to the team’s sports psychologist, John Phelan, about what was going wrong.

“He didn’t say much,” Lundqvist said. “I just sat there and talked and he said, ‘You probably got the answer right there.’ I always keep telling myself, keep focus on the next puck, next puck. It sounds silly, but it’s little things that make a difference.”

Lundqvist readily admits his job is much easier when his teammates give him a lead, and the Rangers jumped ahead early last night. Hossa scored 3:39 into the game by deflecting a shot by defenseman Fedor Tyutin. Shanahan scored late in the first for a 2-0 lead.

What seemed to seal the game was the Rangers’ killing off a five-on-three power play early in the second, when Carolina could not muster a good scoring chance.

“The biggest factor was we just played a lazy game,” Carolina Coach Peter Laviolette said. “We’re not working as a group out there. That sums it up.”

Lundqvist made several spectacular saves. Late in the second, he slid across the crease to his right to push away a chance by Ray Whitney. That launched the first chant from the crowd.

He got the fans going again early in the third, when he stopped another shot by Whitney. When the rebound went right to Éric Bélanger, Lundqvist was out of position but swept the shot away with his stick.

“Nobody in the world can play great 100 games,” Jagr said. “You have to keep working and when the goalie’s hot, take advantage of it and put some streaks together.”

At least for the past two games, the goalie has definitely been hot. Just listen to the crowd.

“I think everybody loves to play here,” Lundqvist said. “To win here, it’s the best place to be.”

The Rangers acquired forward Brad Isbister from Carolina for the rights to forward Jakub Petruzalek and a conditional fifth-round pick in the 2008 draft. Petruzalek, 21, had a goal and 11 assists in 13 games with Hartford, the Rangers’ American Hockey League affiliate. ... Rangers forward Jed Ortmeyer has been cleared to return to noncontact practice, his first action since doctors discovered a pulmonary embolism in August.
638 2006-11-22 Volkswagen said it would stop production of its Golf model at its Brussels plant, shocking workers and government leaders who fear more than 3,500 jobs could be lost. The company said it would move all Golf production to plants in Mösel and Wolfsburg in Germany as part of plans to cut production in Western Europe because of falling demand. A VW spokeswoman, Evelyne Helin, said 1,500 jobs could be salvaged of the 5,300 at the assembly plant.
639 2006-11-22 But there are other explanations, including a belated awakening within the Bush administration that the agenda of its Asian allies is very different from Washington’s. Iraq is rarely in the headlines in the countries Mr. Bush visited. Yet the resentments that have built up over the years, as Mr. Bush pressed his security and counterterrorism agenda ahead of the Asian desire to find ways to spur economic growth, are the subject of regular commentary.

“The Asians got tired of all this homework, and began to organize their own summit, one that excluded the United States, to return to the trade issues they view as so central,” said Michael Green, who left the administration late last year after running the Asia side of the National Security Council. “I think some in the administration realized we were sounding a little shrill on terrorism — because there has been a lot of quiet cooperation in Asia — and it was time to get the president back to the trade agenda.”

So instead of pressing the hunt for Al Qaeda affiliates in Indonesia and terror groups like Abu Sayyaf in the Philippines, this time Mr. Bush talked about the distant goal of creating a free trade area in the Pacific.

The talk was motivated partly by a desire to avoid American exclusion: Mr. Bush’s proposal for a sprawling free-trade area would compete with calls in Asia for a regional one that would exclude non-Asian countries. But it was less of an initiative than a long-range vision, like President Clinton’s call for a “free trade area of the Americas” in the early 1990s.

“It’s a recognition that in Asia, economics is where the game is — with China, and of course with India and others — and in that arena, the president has been in deep kimchi,” said James Lilley, who served as American ambassador to China and South Korea, and is close to Mr. Bush’s father.

Mr. Bush’s aides, not surprisingly, deny that the administration’s troubles in Iraq are limiting his influence in places like Southeast Asia. Such explanations, they argue, are creations of the news media, seeking a storyline of presidential decline after the Republican defeat in the midterm elections.

Yet it was striking that a president who came to office with hopes of dominating the agenda in Asia felt the need on this trip to make the case that the United States could be counted on to stay around.

“America will remain engaged in Asia, because our interests depend on the expansion of freedom and opportunity in this region,” he said in a speech in Singapore. In what seemed to be a message directed back home, to a Congress he will no longer control come January, he warned against growing isolationist tendencies that would cede American influence. Left unsaid was the obvious: that if America retreats, China, India and others will gain.

The true test may come in the next few months, as Mr. Bush manages the diplomacy over North Korea. On previous trips to Asia, he has declared the world could not “tolerate” a nuclear North Korea. Last month, the North Koreans set off their first nuclear test, leaving no doubt that they have a working weapon, even if it is one that did not work very well.

The backroom diplomacy of this trip was centered on joining forces with China and others to lure or compel the North Koreans to make a symbolic step toward disarmament. But the North Koreans know that America’s military is stretched to the limit already, and that, unlike the situation three years ago, there is little reason to fear that Washington’s demands may be backed up by force.

And the rest of Asia, while interested in seeing the North Korean issue resolved, is even more interested in stability. For them, containment of Pyongyang would be fine; disarmament, Bush-style, a little too provocative.

“You go to a meeting in Asia these days, and these issues never come up,” said David Rothkopf, a former Commerce Department official who wrote a definitive history of the National Security Council. “The Asians think that the world is a really great place right now, and they are making progress at a speed never thought possible before. And Bush’s agenda, it just doesn’t scan.”
640 2006-11-22 “We are sorry for any pain this has caused the families of Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson,” Mr. Murdoch added, referring to Mr. Simpson’s former wife and a friend of hers, who were both murdered in 1994. In 1995, Mr. Simpson was acquitted of criminal charges involving their deaths, but was found liable in a later civil trial.

Mr. Murdoch was at his farm in Australia yesterday and unavailable for further comment.

Mr. Murdoch has taken considerable business risks through five decades building a media empire — including borrowing heavily and flirting with insolvency to build a British satellite television business, and starting a fourth major TV network in the United States in the face of daunting competition.

One of his hallmarks — and a recurring source of controversy over the years — has been his boldness in pushing the limits of public taste at his multinational TV and publishing outlets.

In Britain, where he owns the nation’s largest group of newspapers, Mr. Murdoch has stirred controversy over the years, particularly at his tabloid The Sun, which shows a topless woman in each edition. The Sun’s most famous front page headline was the word “Gotcha!” referring to Britain’s sinking of an Argentine battleship with the loss of more than 300 sailors during the Falklands war.

Still, his most audacious fare has been on his Fox TV network in the United States. Two of its hits in the past were the situation comedy “Married With Children” and the early reality hit “Who Wants to Marry a Multi-Millionaire,” which probably would not raise eyebrows today.

In recent years, under the guidance of Fox’s executive vice president for alternative programming, Mike Darnell, who also oversaw the O. J. Simpson project, the network has raised the ante for provocative fare. (Mr. Darnell also oversees the network’s major hit, “American Idol.”)

Short-lived Fox programs included one on which magicians revealed their long-held secrets; one called “The Chamber” that had quiz show contestants being terrorized by flames or alligators; “Man vs. Beast” (featuring 44 dwarfs in a tug-of-war against an elephant); “Married by America,” in which viewers voted on which singles would be matched with marital candidates; and, recently, a program called “Who’s Your Daddy” that showed a woman who was adopted as a child trying to figure out which contestant was her real father.

One show proposed by Mr. Darnell that did not get the green light from Fox executives was “Jumbo Jet Crash: The Ultimate Safety Test”, which would have shown an empty jet equipped with cameras hurtling into the desert.

Even while rivals have criticized Mr. Murdoch, they have ended up emulating him. For instance, NBC developed the reality show “Fear Factor,” which made contestants eat insects and perform other repugnant acts. His early championing of so-called tabloid TV through the program “A Current Affair” heralded the era of celebrity obsession.

But rarely has a project sanctioned by Mr. Murdoch and the News Corporation’s president, Peter A. Chernin — as the O. J. Simpson project apparently was — been withdrawn at the last moment.

HarperCollins, the publishing unit of the News Corporation, did cancel a book by the last British governor in Hong Kong, Chris Patten, in 1998. While some interpreted that as a move by Mr. Murdoch to protect his interests in China, Mr. Murdoch blamed publishing executives.

Mr. Murdoch’s decision to scuttle the Simpson special and book came as some Fox affiliates refused to broadcast the program and as on-air personalities on the Fox News Channel criticized it. The show was to be broadcast next week, after the book’s publication on Nov. 30. The Fox network has been having a dismal fall season so far, coming in last among the four big networks.

In general, though, Mr. Murdoch has reveled in the role of being an outsider pushing the limits and has been rewarded financially for doing so. The News Corporation, with movie studio, publishing, television, newspaper and Internet holdings, is worth $67 billion, as its shares have risen nearly 50 percent off their lows in the last year.

“He gives sports junkies sports; he gives conservatives conservative news; he runs a naked woman in one of his newspapers,” said Leo J. Hindery Jr., a longtime media executive. “He’s the most commercial guy you’ll ever meet in media.”

At the company’s annual meeting last month, Mr. Murdoch fielded accusations of “vulgar sexual content” on his Fox network and F/X cable network from a nonprofit watchdog group, the Parents Television Council. “The problem that we have with Fox is that it is the youngest-skewing of the major broadcast networks,” Melissa A. Clark, an official with the council said yesterday. “In addition to having some of the most offensive content on the networks, they are targeting that content to the youngest viewers.”

At the annual meeting, Mr. Murdoch thanked the group for its “thoughtful” comments and said that the people behind Fox were “family people” who were conscious of such concerns. “Perhaps there are occasions when they certainly step over the line, but we do our best,” he added.
641 2006-11-22 The head of global stocks at the Citadel Investment Group, a $12 billion Chicago-based hedge fund, has left the firm, according to a person briefed on the situation.

The executive, Anand Parekh, formerly head of the North American structuring group at Deutsche Bank, left Citadel on Friday. He was one of seven business heads at the giant hedge fund, and was seen by some investors as among those who could be a potential successor to Kenneth Griffin, the 38-year-old billionaire founder and chief executive of Citadel.

Bryan Locke, a spokesman for the fund, said Citadel did not comment on personnel issues. Mr. Parekh could not be reached for comment.

Performance within the equities division started the year strong, but lagged as the year wore on. While those results remain positive for the year, they are not as strong as other areas of the fund’s portfolio. Citadel was up about 2.5 percent in October and is up 20 percent for the year, according to an investor.

James Yeh, who is head of global markets and quantitative strategy, will now be involved in the equities business, according to the person briefed on the situation.
642 2006-11-22 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 21 (AP) — The Comcast Corporation and the Walt Disney Company said Tuesday that they had signed a multibillion-dollar distribution deal that would allow the cable operator to distribute Disney programming through its video-on-demand service.

As part of the multiyear deal, Comcast also agreed to buy Disney’s 39.5 percent stake in the E Entertainment Television channel for $1.23 billion. Comcast currently holds a 60 percent interest in the channel.

No other financial terms of the deal were disclosed.

The deal extends a content distribution agreement for the 10 ABC-owned broadcast television stations and many of Disney’s TV networks, including Disney Channel, ABC Family, Toon Disney, ESPN and ESPN2, the companies said.

As part of the agreement, Comcast will start a Spanish-language sports network called ESPN Deportes, the companies said.

Disney has agreed to allow Comcast to distribute episodes of “Desperate Housewives,” “Lost” and two unspecified new fall programs through the on-demand service free within 12 hours of broadcast. Comcast will also add “World News With Charles Gibson,” “Nightline” and “This Week” to its on-demand roster.

“This is one of the broadest distribution agreements in the history of our company,” Disney’s president and chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said in a statement.
643 2006-11-22 Yet the terms of engagement between Microsoft and Linux promise to become an even greater source of controversy. The general counsel of the Free Software Foundation, which holds the license to Linux, yesterday called on Microsoft to alter its pledge not to file patent-infringement suits against customers who use Novell’s version of Linux, called SuSe Linux. He said the pledge should be extended to all Linux users or to none.

That point was a crucial part of the Microsoft-Novell pact, which also included joint technology development and marketing programs.

The deal was also regarded as a way for Microsoft to try to undermine its leading open source competitor, Red Hat, whose customers would not enjoy the same patent pledge as Novell customers.

Preferential treatment for one distributor or group of developers of Linux over others is something the new version of the Linux software license, which is nearly complete, will seek to prohibit, said Eben Moglen, general counsel of the Free Software Foundation.

“This deal raises important questions,” said Mr. Moglen, who is a law professor at Columbia University, “and it is not going to work well under the new license.”

The new version, the General Public License 3.0, is in the final public comment stage, and is scheduled to become effective next March. A major aim of the license revision is to deal with the spread of software patents, and patent lawsuits, in recent years. And the new license will almost certainly make it difficult for companies to make selective patent pledges to some Linux distributors, developers and users, and not to others, Mr. Moglen said.

He said the concern was that Microsoft could use such patent promises as a competitive weapon to undermine companies who are rivals or to threaten independent Linux software developers.

“Microsoft should take back the patent promise to Novell customers or extend the promise of patent safety to everyone, not just Novell customers,” he said.

Microsoft has not previously made an issue of patent claims against Linux companies or developers. And while Mr. Ballmer’s assertion last week that Linux code includes Microsoft’s intellectual property may be his personal belief, it is not been reflected in the company’s strategy — at least not so far.

In an interview after the Novell deal, Bradford L. Smith, the general counsel of Microsoft, pointed to the agreement as an example of the “new intellectual property paradigms” that would be needed so that corporations and consumers could more easily use all kinds of technology, from open-source and proprietary software to digital music and video in different formats.

The different technologies and businesses will remain different, Mr. Smith said, but rigid intellectual property rules should not prevent them from working together. “What’s needed are bridges, not walls,” he said.

In its statement on Monday, Microsoft said, “Both of our companies are fully committed to moving forward with all of the important work under these agreements.”
644 2006-11-22 For 13 years, New York’s lawmakers always had an excuse when they failed to do enough for New York City schools. We have to wait for the courts, they explained. The courts will tell us what to do. It was a cowardly dodge — an attempt by elected officials to foist hard choices upon someone else. Still, they got what they wanted. This week, New York’s highest court concluded the Campaign for Fiscal Equity case by agreeing that New York City schools need at least $2 billion more a year to provide the sound basic education promised by the state Constitution.

The dollar figure was a disappointment to teachers, plaintiffs and other education advocates who had wanted more than twice that amount, as ordered by a lower court. But it is a good starting point to build upon as the new governor and Legislature find a way to provide education funds more fairly across the state. The incoming governor, Eliot Spitzer, says he will work to get more than the court’s minimum for city schools. He will also need to persuade legislators to untangle a state school aid formula that has shorted high-needs areas in favor of the richer suburbs. Mr. Spitzer wants the city to contribute more, perhaps as much as $1 billion extra, but he might have a hard time getting Mayor Michael Bloomberg to go along.

Changing the lopsided state education aid formula, which is protected so vigorously by suburban state senators, will have to be part of a larger package that provides new benefits to the areas that will lose money and new revenue to the state to pay for it all. Revamping the state health care system might eventually provide savings to go for education. And Mr. Spitzer has endorsed more property tax relief that would help the suburbs.

Too many youngsters have sifted through failing schools in New York City’s 1.1 million-student system while legislators and the courts delayed action. Evidence of the desperate need in urban areas for better teachers and smaller classes, decent science laboratories, modern textbooks and even the most basic computers made the urgency clear.

Now the courts have handed the problem back to Mr. Spitzer and the legislature. That is the right venue — if they can only do the job.
645 2006-11-22 WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 — A Democratic staff member of the House intelligence committee has been cleared of wrongdoing by a Republican-led leak investigation and reinstated in his position, committee officials said Tuesday.

The staff member, Larry Hanauer, was suspended last month from access to classified materials at the direction of the committee’s chairman, Representative Peter Hoekstra, Republican of Michigan.

Mr. Hoekstra said at the time that he thought Mr. Hanauer might have been a source for an article on Sept. 24 in The New York Times about a National Intelligence Estimate saying the Iraq war had become a cause célèbre for terrorists.

Mr. Hanauer had obtained a copy of the classified study at the request of a Democratic panel member, Representative John F. Tierney of Massachusetts, shortly before it was described in the article.

Democrats on the committee protested that the accusation was groundless and unfair and that Mr. Hanauer had merely properly responded to a routine request from a member.
646 2006-11-22 Doctors in London remained uncertain yesterday what substance could have felled Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former K.G.B. operative seriously ill in an intensive care unit. Scotland Yard is investigating the case as a probable poisoning, and doctors are trying to learn how the substance was delivered.

Although the London hospital has not released a full accounting of his illness, the doctors have indicated that he is suffering from gastrointestinal problems, hair loss, pain and failure of the bone marrow, the body’s factory for producing blood and immune cells.

Mr. Litvinenko traces his illness to food or drink he ingested on Nov. 1, after eating a meal with a man who had offered him information about the killing of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya and whom he was meeting for the first time. He was admitted to University College Hospital in London on Friday.

Initial suspicion focused on thallium, a colorless, odorless compound that causes hair to fall out and is a common culprit in poisonings meant to hide homicides over the years. But the progression of Mr. Litvinenko’s symptoms over the past few days have not been typical for thallium poisoning, and the hospital announced yesterday afternoon that test results cast doubt on that theory.

“Based on results we have received today and Mr. Litvinenko’s clinical features, thallium poisoning is an unlikely cause of his current condition,” the hospital’s statement said. His doctors said the levels of thallium detected were not toxic.
647 2006-11-22 Stocks resumed their November advance yesterday after an increase in oil prices lifted Exxon Mobil, the world’s biggest energy company, and shares of Google surpassed $500 for the first time.

Deere, the maker of farm equipment, led industrial stocks higher after saying that fourth-quarter profit rose more than analysts forecast. Boeing, the maker of commercial aircraft, climbed after receiving a $5.5 billion order from Korean Air Lines.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has gained 10 out of the last 12 days as earnings reports exceeded estimates and declining consumer and wholesale prices heightened speculation that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates anytime soon.

“Everyone’s really comfortable with the Fed on hold, and that’s really the best scenario for stocks,” said Alec Young, an equity strategist at Standard & Poor’s in New York. “There’s barely any down days, because the picture looks good. Stocks will continue to outperform other asset classes.”

The S.& P. 500 added 2.31 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,402.81. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 5.05 points, to 12,321.59. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.12 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,454.84.
648 2006-11-22 This is a moment of transition for Mr. Leff, as he makes the adjustment from embattled warlord of the cheap-eats army to private citizen with a 401(k). After years of obsessively tending to the boards and worrying about server costs, he is now simply a Chowhound reviewer. This should mean that he can finally step back and taste success. If only his taste buds weren’t so exhausted.

“I’m actually in a state of existential confusion and disorientation at this point,” Mr. Leff said. “The line between work and leisure has long been blurred for me, and this tour has brought that to a head. I’ve had a lot of trouble taking a day or two off because mealtime rolls around and I get hungry. What am I supposed to do? Go to Wendy’s?”

So far, Mr. Leff has eaten his way through the Southeast, New York and north to New England, the Maritime Provinces and now California (he admitted that he is woefully behind schedule posting his reviews). He does not call on local food critics for advice, carry guidebooks or announce himself when he dines. Mainly, he relies on intuition and a nose for garlic, coriander and barbecue sauce.

Mr. Leff has discovered Amish breakfast buffets, Indonesian lunch counters, and, his biggest surprise, a Vietnamese restaurant in practically every town he’s visited. “I’ve heard the word ‘pho’ more these two months than in the last 40 years,” he said. (Mr. Leff’s trip blog is at chow.com/tour.)

Mr. Leff, who resembles the member of Penn & Teller who speaks, is a man of many strong opinions, some of them positive. Over the years, his Chowhound raves have conferred cult status on little-known joints like Di Fara Pizza in Brooklyn and Lotus of Siam, a Thai food heaven in a Las Vegas strip mall. His best-known discovery is the “Arepa Lady,” Maria Piedad Cano, who sells Colombian corn cakes from a cart on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens. Thanks to Chowhound, she is now stalked by Japanese news crews.

But many Chowhounders grew tired of Mr. Leff’s off-the-cuff remarks (many a new discovery is labeled “the best ______ Jim ever ate!”) and his habit of deleting posts without notice or explanation. These critics say this could be an excellent time for the Alpha Dog who ruled Chowhound with an iron paw to loosen his grip.

“Jim was having an increasingly difficult time with people challenging his sensibilities,” said Steve Plotnicki, an early Chowhounder who now runs a discussion group called Opinionated About Dining (oad.typepad.com). “You could never argue with him about, say, his sainted Arepa Lady. ‘Come on, Jim, she’s using cheap corn flour.’ No, that detail would seem elitist. He wants the conclusion of any discussion about the Arepa Lady to be that the Arepa Lady is good.”

Nor did Mr. Leff win friends by blasting notables in the food world. In a heated thread in 2001, Mr. Leff knocked down the critic Mimi Sheraton’s assertion that Kossar’s bakes the only good bialys in New York: “Never believe such pronouncements from nonchowhoundish writers.” Ms. Sheraton had just published a book chronicling her exhaustive hunt for bialys on two continents. Not surprisingly, some of the site’s more opinionated adherents drifted away.

“Jim is unflaggingly enthusiastic, but he puts you to stringent tests,” said Sylvia Carter, a food columnist for Newsday, who has known Mr. Leff since he was in high school. (He used to write her fan letters.) “The first time Jim ever had tomato bread in Spain, the tomato was on one side. Now if you tell him you like tomato on both sides, his lip begins to quiver.”

Chowhound’s popularity — 800,000 users viewed the site in 2005 — has also dispossessed its early adopters. One result is that Chowhound has spawned more splinter groups than the old Bulgarian Communist Party. Ms. Sheraton, along with others including Anthony Bourdain and Russ Parsons, a food writer for The Los Angeles Times, gradually disappeared from Chowhound and joined the conversation at egullet.org, a site started by several disaffected Chowhounders. “We wanted a higher level of culinary discourse,” said Jason Perlow, a founder of eGullet, who recently decamped to his own blog, Off the Broiler (offthebroiler.wordpress.com).

More recently, refugees from both Chowhound and eGullet launched Mouthfulsfood (mouthfulsfood.com) and Opinionated About Dining, where members are screened before they are allowed to write about food but anybody can read the contributions.

When asked about his critics’ remarks, Mr. Leff rolled his eyes and said what matters most to him these days is good eating, especially since he no longer needs to beg for donations or police posts that obviously came from a chef’s mom. Before the CNET acquisition, Mr. Leff had eked out a living as a freelance writer and jazz trombonist. Still, his new salaried position, even with its generous expense account and other undisclosed perks, does not appear to have changed him much. Mr. Leff made multiple stops on his flight to Los Angeles to save money and he missed his connecting flight because, he said, “nobody told me how many phenomenal eating opportunities there are at Midway Airport.”

Robert Sietsema, a regular contributor to Gourmet magazine and food critic for The Village Voice, said that is the story of Mr. Leff’s life. “He always lures you in with boast of the most delicious doughnut in Whitestone, Queens,” he said. “But it quickly becomes like Zeno’s paradox, where you get halfway to the doughnut and Jim has to stop for South Indian food. You stop at 20 places and never make it to the doughnut.”

That is a fair description of Mr. Leff’s Chow Tour. In Florence, Ala., he checked into a hotel room to catch up on paperwork, only to find a distracting dish of shrimp grits in the hotel buffet.

“I ended up writing about them all night,” he said.

Trolling the outskirts of Chattanooga, he came upon Old Plantation Barbecue, a ribs place that filled him with “bliss followed by anger that nobody was there,” he said. At the Ship Pub in St. John’s, Newfoundland, Mr. Leff swooned over bacon and corn chowder in a way that astonished the man who had cooked it.

“Chefs who aren’t told they’re great by the food mafia aren’t registering it on a conscious level,” Mr. Leff said. “The ‘geniuses’ are the ones we’ve heard about because they’ve been written about. That’s just wrong.”

Back in Los Angeles, Mr. Leff was doing his best to avoid flash and hype. Leaving the strudel behind, he drove past Ford’s Filling Station, the star of the burgeoning Culver City restaurant scene, choosing Fassica instead, a hole-in-the-wall Ethiopian restaurant serving large platters of chicken and lamb stews alongside Ethiopian honey wine. Next, it was mango pickles in a chili sauce at a Fijian market. Then he moved on to small soft French pastries called cannelés at Surfa’s, a chef’s supply store with a cafe, where Mr. Leff sensed trouble. “If Dexter Gordon’s playing tenor sax, you know the prices are up 30 percent,” he said.

Mr. Leff does not know exactly what comes next. His Chow Tour has no end date, not that things would change if it did. “Say it ends,” he said, eyeing the halal meat markets and Indian sweet shops on Venice Boulevard. “I go to work at a car wash. But then the next day, I wake up and I’m hungry again. When does it end? It doesn’t end.”
649 2006-11-22 Sometimes, even on weeks less stressed than this one, which happens to be the Super Bowl and Oscar week of chowing-down, Tony Brown thinks it takes a miracle.

A miracle to match the too-much-food-too-often society with the struggling agencies he delivers food to every day. A miracle to navigate the Long Island traffic and make all his deliveries and pickups in a day. And a miracle to fill the 24-foot International truck with grocery store turkeys and hams and apple pies and canned corn, with the excess from catering halls and Waldbaum’s and King Kullen, from Panera Bread and KFC and Taco Bell and deliver them to churches and rescue missions and social service organizations across Nassau County.

But when he prayed about it, when he asked for a miracle, he heard a clear message instead. “Be the miracle,” it said. He wrote it down in red felt-tip pen on a page from his receipt book and Scotch-taped it behind the steering wheel of his truck a year ago. When he got a new truck, he took the piece of paper with him. So every day the message “Be the miracle” stares him in the face as he drives along.

For shoppers, as we’re told every time we turn around, the big day, the Day of Awe, is the Friday after Thanksgiving when the seasonal shopping bell goes off, sending us lemming-like to the malls. But for food banks and relief agencies, for groups like Island Harvest on Long Island, which distributes about seven million pounds of donated food a year, the crunch comes a few days earlier. It comes at the beginning of Thanksgiving week, when a small ragtag army mobilizes to deliver the one-day miracle everyone expects on Thanksgiving — that, for one day, for rich and for poor, there is enough, too much, to eat.

In the middle of that, staffing warehouses or steering trucks, are people like Mr. Brown, an amiable man of 50 who drove an ambulette for a center for the elderly in his previous life, but has found a sense of mission navigating his truck for Island Harvest. The nonprofit organization matches more than 500 commercial food donors — restaurants, supermarkets, caterers and the like — with more than 430 member agencies.
650 2006-11-22 Infosys Technologies, the outsourcing company, will offer $1.6 billion worth of its shares in the United States, the biggest overseas offering by an Indian company. The 30 million American depository shares, each worth one common share, were price...
651 2006-11-22 GOOGLE, STILL FEELING LUCKY -- Google's shares closed up $14.60 at $509.65, rising past the $500 mark for the first time, not bad for a company that was forced to reduce its initial share price to $85 barely two years ago because of lackluster dem...
652 2006-11-22 PRICE--Barry. Beautiful boy, away from us 31 years. You're always in our hearts. Love and kisses, Mommy, Daddy, Jodi, Blair, Mark...
653 2006-11-23 German drug and chemicals maker Bayer said it will sell its H.C. Starck unit to a consortium led by Advent International and the Carlyle Group for about $1.49 billion including debt. Bayer said in a statement Thursday that the sale of the chemical...
654 2006-11-23 Even worse, the Knicks finished the game with 11 assists on 32 baskets, an astoundingly poor lack of teamwork that left Thomas so angry that he kept the locker room closed for 20 minutes and took only three questions from reporters. Though Crawford, Marbury and Francis combined for 56 points (along with 10 turnovers), the Knicks’ No. 2 scorer, Quentin Richardson, did not take a shot in a scoreless 18 minutes 29 seconds.

“If tonight is an indication of how it’s going to be, then it definitely won’t continue,” Thomas said of the lineup change. “This was unacceptable. Even in the games we lost, we always competed and played together as a team. Tonight, we didn’t do that. You can point to all of us.”

Richardson said: “Look at how we performed. He should be upset. We went out there and lost by 20. The whole game was terrible, pretty much. We didn’t play hard, and they got any shot they wanted.”

Ricky Davis led a balanced Timberwolves offense with 21 points, while Kevin Garnett added 19 points and 9 rebounds even though he sat out the fourth quarter.

Along with the lineup change, Thomas gave Marbury the freedom to play the way he always has, to be Starbury again.

“It wasn’t taken away from me,” Marbury said. “It was more so me trying to do something to basically fit in to make sure it was a fit. He wants me to go out and play the way I normally play.”

Marbury scored 18 points. But he committed five turnovers, all in the first half, and the Knicks were already far behind when he started scoring midway through the second quarter.

“I have no explanation for this,” Marbury said.

Francis, who Thomas said volunteered to come off the bench, replaced Marbury late in the first quarter. Thomas played Marbury and Francis together in a three-guard alignment for much of the second quarter, a move that succeeded only in getting Francis in foul trouble. It neither slowed the Timberwolves nor energized the Knicks’ offense.

Recently, Francis termed his benching last season in Orlando by Larry Brown, the coach at the time, against his former team, as the worst day of his life. A testy Francis would not confirm whether the latest move was his idea, but he said he was fine with it.

“I’m straight, man,” he said. “I’m not going to make an issue about coming off the bench. Hopefully, it’ll help us get better. It didn’t help us win tonight, but hopefully it will help us get better.”

However it happened, Thomas has finally abandoned an experiment that appeared unworkable from the start. Francis, a three-time All-Star, is averaging 9.8 points and Marbury 10.9, both well below their career norms.

The Knicks have gotten more energy and production from Crawford and Nate Robinson off the bench most games than they have from Marbury and Francis.

“Steve thought this would help the team and help him,” Thomas said. “We’ll see how it goes.

“We’ve got to find some combinations that work, and I’ve got to get more out of these two than I’ve gotten so far. We definitely need one or two changes in certain parts of the game, when we’re hitting that dead spot and the other team is having 8-0 and 10-0 runs on us.”

Thomas said the change would probably be temporary, until Jared Jeffries returns from a broken left wrist in two weeks.

According to Thomas, Francis has not asked to be traded. Even if Francis did, the Knicks could not easily move him. He is owed $48.7 million on a contract that runs through 2009.
655 2006-11-23 Acacia Newlon-Yafai, a 20-year-old student at the University of California, Los Angeles, is one of them. She searches Web sites like cheaptickets.com for low fares, signs up at airline sites to receive fare-sale alerts by e-mail message and travels only when the price is right.

A month ago, a Southwest Airlines service called Ding sent her an e-mail message about a $128 round-trip fare to San Jose, where her family lives, and her holiday plans were set. “If you look a while, you can figure it out,” Ms. Newlon-Yafai said. “If you want to fly two weeks in advance, you can’t do that.”

Such hard-nosed shopping is on the rise. About 25 percent of air travelers consult online newsletters and other sources of special deals before buying, up from 17 percent last year, according to Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. And 17 percent of travelers use Web sites like kayak.com, itasoftware.com or sidestep.com, which scour other Internet sites for travel deals.

“Consumers have access to more and more information,” Mr. Harteveldt said. “It’s exactly what airlines don’t want consumers to have.”

In the long term, the sharp fare increases this year will probably be an anomaly. The 15 percent rise in fares, after all, resulted in large part from a sharp contraction of airline fleets brought on by bankruptcies and a drop in air travel after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. In coming years, the growth of Internet fare shopping, and the expansion of low-cost airlines will most likely help moderate price increases.

Southwest Airlines, for example, acquired 36 additional Boeing 737s this year and is expected to acquire 37 next year, growing as some traditional airlines have shrunk.

“We don’t have enough aircraft,” said Gary C. Kelly, chief executive of Southwest, the biggest low-cost carrier.

Andry Ramandraivonona, an investment banker who lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, booked flights to Boston for himself, his wife and their two small children two weeks ago, using itasoftware.com. He paid $100 round trip for each.

The family would like to go home to Paris for Christmas, but was put off by the $1,700-a-person cost. “It’s a bit prohibitive,” Mr. Ramandraivonona said. They may delay the trip or make the trip sooner.

Leisure fares, those bought far in advance with restrictions, averaged $90 one-way last week on domestic routes, 9 percent lower than a year earlier and the 10th consecutive week of decline for leisure prices, according to Harrell Associates, a travel consulting firm in New York.

Business fares, which are typically booked at the last minute and carry few restrictions, averaged $479 one-way last week on domestic routes, 8 percent higher than a year earlier. But the rate of increase has slowed markedly from spring and summer when business fares were rising by 20 percent or more over the same periods a year ago.

While the tide is shifting toward consumers on prices, they should probably give up hope of counting on an empty seat next to them when they fly. The number of planes in the fleets of airlines in the United States is growing slowly. And a reason consumers are able to find more deals online is that airlines are using such systems to fill seats that might go vacant. After all, any revenue they can bring in for a seat is better than nothing.

Industry analysts said that flights could very well average close to 80 percent full for years to come, which means that those on popular routes at convenient times are typically 100 percent full.

One thing could, however, send fares back up sharply, at least temporarily. US Airways offered last week to buy Delta Air Lines, which is operating in bankruptcy, for about $8 billion. US Airways has said it will reduce the carrier’s combined fleets by about 10 percent if the deal goes through.

Taking 80 or so big jetliners out of service would allow the combined airline — and others — to raise fares because there would be less competition in some markets. Delta is opposing the offer and wants to remain independent.

Higher fares appear to have affected many people’s travel plans this year. Many more bought tickets to fly on Thanksgiving Day, arriving at family gatherings a little later but at lower cost, according to Sabre, which operates a vast computer reservation system. And skipping grandma’s house altogether was also more popular, as Las Vegas rose to the No. 3 travel destination over the holiday, from No. 8 last year, Sabre said.

When airlines put their fare information online years ago, their main goal was to cut out traditional travel agents to save the commissions they paid them. But many airlines were surprised to learn how much time consumers were willing to spend shopping for fares.

Dr. Steve Kronick, an emergency room physician in Ann Arbor, Mich., said he searched Internet sites for weeks this summer to find affordable seats to take his wife and two children to Seattle to see friends this week. They paid $1,400 for four round-trip tickets on Northwest Airlines after Dr. Kronick consulted farecast.com, which tries to tell consumers the best time to buy an airfare.

“I don’t know how accurate it is,” Dr. Kronick said, “but it makes you feel better.”

George W. Evans, a graduate business student at Emory University in Atlanta, paid $500, about $100 more than last year, for a round-trip flight this week to visit family in Pelham, N.Y. Earlier this year, he worked on a class project about Delta Air Lines and was part of a group of students who presented their work to some Delta executives.

“They told us their strategy this year was going to be to raise fares,” he said. “I heard it from the horse’s mouth. It was right after I bought my tickets. I felt used.”

Even with the higher fares, of course, the airline industry remains deeply troubled after more than $30 billion of losses in recent years. And airfares, compared with the rising prices of many other goods and services, have remained quite cheap over time.

Kiki Morris, who works in the entertainment industry in Los Angeles, paid $500 a month ago for her ticket to New York on JetBlue Airways. She usually pays $100 for a Lincoln Town Car just to get her to the airport in Los Angeles, but this time took a regular taxi, for $50, instead.

The price to fly one mile on an airliner, about 12 cents on average domestically, has changed little over the last 20 years. And, taking inflation into account, prices have fallen by nearly half.

“Airfares are so cheap,” said Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights. “A brake job on your car at the dealer is like $500 now. The airlines are just killing each other on these fares.”

Still, for many, fares are high enough that the ability to travel is limited. “It made me decide between Thanksgiving and Christmas,” said Tammy Rowe, 30, a public relations worker in Chicago who flew to Atlanta yesterday to meet family. “I noticed back in the spring and summer that fares were kind of jacked up.”

Ramona Collins, 33, of Flushing, N.Y., flew to visit her brother in Arkansas yesterday on Northwest Airlines. Her round-trip ticket cost $402, she said, purchased in mid-October on kayak.com. “It was probably at least $100 more than last year,” she said.

“It makes me think about not going anywhere for Christmas,” she said. Normally, she would go to Arkansas to see her parents.

She is reconsidering, and added, “They don’t know that yet.”
656 2006-11-23 The chief executive of BJ’s Wholesale Club resigned yesterday after months of disappointing sales, sparking speculation on Wall Street that the retailer may be put up for sale.

The company said its chairman, Herbert J. Zarkin, would serve as interim chief executive, succeeding Michael T. Wedge, who leaves after about four years on the job.

“Simply put, the timing of today’s announcement is too odd to ignore and leads us to believe that the company’s board of directors may be beginning to think strategically, including a potential sale of the company or other recapitalization alternatives,” an analyst at J. P. Morgan, Charles Grom, wrote in a note to clients.

Mr. Grom said the news came just two days before the traditional start of the holiday shopping season and only a week after the retailer released its third-quarter earnings.

Analysts have long speculated that private equity firms would be interested in BJ’s. It has very little debt and holds an attractive real estate portfolio.

But Cathy Maloney, the vice president of investor relations for BJ’s, said, “Today’s announcement is not a signal to the market that the company is for sale.”

Adrianne Shapira, retail analyst with Goldman Sachs, said the management change showed an “increased sense of urgency” to improve lackluster performance.
657 2006-11-23 The company that owns and operates the Indian Point nuclear reactors said yesterday it would seek federal approval to operate the reactors for 20 years after their original licenses expire. The company, Entergy Nuclear Northeast, operates the Indian Point 2 and 3 reactors, which jointly produce about 2,000 megawatts of electricity. Indian Point 2’s license is to expire in 2013 and Indian Point 3’s in 2015. The reactors must undergo a review by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission before a renewal can be granted.
658 2006-11-23 Two employees of the city ice skating rink in Boise have been fired for making a midnight fast-food run in a pair of Zambonis. An anonymous tipster reported seeing the two ice-resurfacing machines chug through a Burger King drive-through and return to the rink around 12:30 a.m. on Nov. 10. The Zambonis have a top speed of about 5 miles per hour, and were driven 1.5 miles. The drivers, both temporary employees whose names were not released by the Parks and Recreation Department, had to negotiate at least one intersection on their late-night creep from Idaho Ice World. “They were fired immediately,” said the parks department director, Jim Hall. Mr. Hall said the city could charge the employees with operating an unlicensed motor vehicle on a public street.
659 2006-11-23 The device, a fetal pulse oximeter, was meant to be used with fetal heart-rate monitoring, which is performed in 85 percent of births in the United States. Despite its routine use, the heart monitoring is controversial, because doctors adopted it in the 1970s without rigorous testing and then kept using it even after studies found that it led to higher Caesarean rates but not healthier babies. The heart monitors can create false alarms that lead to Caesareans.

Researchers had hoped that the fetal pulse oximeter would improve that situation — that monitoring both the oxygen level and the heart rate would help doctors do a better job of deciding when a baby was in trouble and needed to be delivered in a hurry. But it did not, the study found.

Dr. Bloom and other researchers said that when the oximeter was developed, doctors were excited about it, because the idea of tracking a baby’s oxygen level seemed so logical.

“It would be so nice to have a monitor or a device of some sort that can provide us useful information during labor to know that the baby is doing well,” said Dr. Catherine Y. Spong, an author of the study who is also a specialist in high-risk pregnancies and the chief of the pregnancy and perinatology branch of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. “This held great promise.”

But at the same time, many experts worried that the doctors’ enthusiasm would lead to widespread use of the technology before it could be thoroughly tested.

“Once something gets ingrained into practice, it’s really hard to take it back even if it doesn’t have any benefit,” Dr. Spong said.

The oximeter was made by Nellcor, a division of Tyco Healthcare, and approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2000. But the approval was granted on the condition that the company do further research. In 2001, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also called for more research, and refused to endorse the device.

“People were waiting for this paper, because it was a very large, very well-designed, randomized, controlled trial, to see whether fetal pulse oximetry made a difference,” said Dr. Sarah J. Kilpatrick, the vice chairwoman of the college’s obstetric practice committee, and head of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Illinois, Chicago.

“Is it the kiss of death?” Dr. Kilpatrick said. “Based on the data that’s published, you cannot argue that there’s an indication for this device right now.”

The new study included 5,341 women with full-term pregnancies at 14 hospitals around the country. The oximeters were used with fetal heart monitors at each birth — but in half the cases, the doctors were not shown the readout from the oxygen monitor.

The idea was to find out if the Caesarean section rate or the babies’ health differed between doctors who knew the oxygen levels and those who did not. But there were no differences. The study was halted early because it became apparent that the information from the oxygen monitor was not helping anybody.

In January 2006, Nellcor discontinued the oximeter. A spokeswoman for the company said component problems and “a lack of widespread acceptance” were the reasons.

Dr. Spong and other researchers said that part of what drove them to study the oxygen monitor was the desire to avoid repeating what happened with fetal heart-rate monitoring: it became a mainstay of medical practice and training despite a lack of evidence that it was effective. Obstetricians embraced heart monitors because they believed that lack of oxygen was a major cause of cerebral palsy, and that monitors would help prevent it by showing when a baby lacked oxygen and needed to be delivered right away.

But as it turned out, fetal heart monitoring did not reduce cerebral palsy rates; it has since become clear that lack of oxygen is rarely the cause of the problem. And it has also become clear that the readings from the machines can be tricky to decipher.

In his editorial, Dr. Greene noted that when asked to interpret the same oxygen monitor readout on different occasions, experts frequently disagreed with one another and sometimes with their own interpretations.

But, for lack of anything better, most obstetricians depend on the heart monitors. Many insist that certain patterns are a clear signal that a baby is in trouble.

Dr. Greene said heart monitors had never been proved more effective than a trained nurse with a stethoscope. But he doubted that his profession would ever return to those days.

“It might add more of a human touch to it, which many people miss in modern obstetrical care,” Dr. Greene said. “But at this point it would be like ruthlessly yanking Linus’s blanket away from him.”
660 2006-11-23 The city, starting an aggressive campaign to combat hunger and unhealthy eating, plans to name a food policy czar to help make healthier options available to poor New Yorkers, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn said yesterday.

As part of the campaign, the new official, whose title will be food policy coordinator, will work to figure out ways of ensuring that those eligible for food stamps are able to get them. Although the number of people using food stamps has roughly doubled under the Bloomberg administration, officials said, at least 500,000 New Yorkers who are eligible for the stamps do not claim them, according to Ms. Quinn.

City officials also said that they would expand to 1,000 stores a program to encourage bodegas in low-income areas to offer healthier products like low-fat milk and fresh vegetables.

A Department of Health and Mental Hygiene study this year of Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick, two neighborhoods in Brooklyn with high rates of poverty and obesity, found that 80 percent of food stores were bodegas, as opposed to larger supermarkets. The study found that only a third of the bodegas sold reduced-fat milk, and only a tenth sold leafy green vegetables.

“There is no easy solution, and every solution takes time, and every solution that takes time also costs,” Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at the Melrose public housing complex in the Bronx. “I think that this is a small price to pay, and one well worth paying, to be able to make sure that everybody in this city lives the great American dream.”
661 2006-11-23 “I think this is colossal if this happens next year and the year after that,” Mr. Kabakov said in an interview following the ceremony. “Soviet literature lived from Lenin Prize to Lenin Prize. In essence this can replace that function.”

By Western standards it was an odd literary event. The billionaire oligarchs not only financed the prize, they were members of the new literary academy, or jury, that picked among the 14 finalists. The jury included writers like Eduard Radzinsky, the co-chair of the jury; Alyona Doletskaya, the editor of Russian Vogue; and business leaders like Viktor Vekselberg, the oil and metals tycoon who bought Malcolm Forbes’s Fabergé egg collection.

Aleksandr Mamut, a financier who was a co-presenter of the third prize, to Mr. Shishkin, is an owner of a chain of Russian bookstores and recently bought three publishing houses. “Literature and music are what made Russia great in the eyes of the world, more than the atom bomb,” said Pyotr Aven, a banker who presented the prize with Mr. Mamut.

Critics of the prize have described it as an attempt by the oligarchs to get some public relations mileage out of literature.

“They want to show a cultural image, they want to show their significance,” said Aleksandr Shatalov, a literary critic who attended the ceremony, but was not a jury member.

Though the most lucrative, the Big Book prize is not the only literary award in Russia. Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a former oil magnate now in a Siberian jail, had financed a Russian Booker Prize in recent years. He is writing tracts from his cell.

Each year the awarding of the Booker had spurred furious debate about the state of post-Soviet Russian literature. Big Book promises to provide another rich forum for squabbles and hand-wringing.

The state of modern Russian literature was Topic A at a roundtable discussion of Big Book finalists held on the eve of the ceremony at Russian State University for the Humanities. Only a dozen students showed up, but the four finalists who participated grew quite spirited in their comments, fretting about the impact of the Internet and other issues.

Mr. Kabakov, for instance, was troubled by the striking success of Oksana Robski, a popular new novelist who specializes in recreating the lives of Russia’s richest women, including scenes of mind-boggling materialism, bodice-ripping passion and mountains of cocaine.

He pointed, also, to “Dukhless” (or, “Soulless”), the latest best seller to plumb the depths of the moneyed class, depicting the moral disintegration of a young business executive into an orgy of cocaine and casual sex. It reads like “Bright Lights, Big City” Russian style, yet the book has drawn praise from many, something that distressed Mr. Kabakov.

“You can say ‘The Forsyte Saga’ is a book about the middle class, and so is ‘Dukhless,’ ” he said, scoffing. Yet he denied feeling any jealousy for the success of such books. Such writers, he said, are working in “a different profession.”
662 2006-11-23 “Israeli Map Says West Bank Posts Sit on Arab Land” (front page, Nov. 21) was unfortunately accurate. I say “unfortunately” because this illegal confiscation of Palestinian lands by Israel has continued for years, as my family and many others have endured firsthand.

With no repercussions for these actions from the outside world, and particularly from the United States government, it is no wonder that they continue.

It is also no wonder that the Israeli government has refused to give the information directly to Peace Now, the Israeli group that advocates Palestinian self-determination in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Peace Now had requested it under Israel’s freedom of information law.

“Israeli Map Says West Bank Posts Sit on Arab Land” included as part of the headline, “A New Obstacle to Peace.” Many Jews will react to this with a bitter chuckle, as once again, logic is stood on its head when it comes to Israel.

Many of us wonder when will the world wake up and realize that this conflict was never about land at all. If it were, an agreement could have been reached a long time ago.
663 2006-11-23 The Da Capo Chamber Players, like most new-music ensembles, do plenty of commissioning, and no doubt just as much filling out of grant applications to cover the expense. At its performance on Tuesday evening at Merkin Concert Hall, the group played a half-dozen of the scores composed for it since 1979. Two of the works, Gene Pritsker’s “Self Laceration” and Chandler Carter’s “Conversation Piece,” were world premieres, and a third, Eric Chasalow’s Flute Concerto , was given its first New York performance.

Of the new works Mr. Pritsker’s “Self Laceration” (2006) was the most immediately striking, its off-putting title notwithstanding. It begins with a rhythmically insistent, irresistibly zesty movement in which the focus moves briskly around the ensemble. The clarinet, violin, cello, flute and piano each have exposed lines that capture the character of the instrument and create a lively dialogue. The individual instruments speak in distinct, idiomatic voices.

Mr. Chasalow’s Flute Concerto (2005) packs a lot of ideas into 15 minutes. Its movement titles — “Flight and Confusion,” “Eggshell, More Like a Heart” and “Feather, Breath, Mirror” — look impressionistically vague on paper, but Mr. Chasalow’s appealingly symmetrical writing evokes them in a painterly way, by making vibrant, sharply articulated textures morph into stretches of wispy lyricism and back. Patricia Spencer played the solo line with a deft command of both technique and timbre.

Mr. Carter’s “Conversation Piece” (2006) is based on his chamber opera, “The Sister,” and has a decidedly operatic quality: as in Mr. Pritsker’s work, the instruments suggest specific, sharply drawn characters in a fluid drama, and their lines have the angular, anxious quality of contemporary vocal writing. The players also make fragmentary spoken contributions, and if they offer only the barest glimpse into the missing libretto, the real action is in the shapely instrumental dialogues.

All three new works drew on a rigorous harmonic and rhythmic language, tempered by a lyrical eclecticism that rounded off the potentially harsh edges, and gave the pieces a direct appeal. The older scores worked similarly, with the exception of Philip Glass’s “Modern Love Waltz” (1980), which burbled along pleasantly in Mr. Glass’s consonant style, in an ensemble arrangement by Robert Moran. Philippe Bodin’s “Peal” (2000) opened the program with an explosion of brash timbres and insistent rhythms that gradually melted into softer textures. And Stephen Jaffe’s three-movement “Nonesuch Serenade” (1984), an essay in constant textural shifting, prefigured the essentially vocal style of Mr. Carter’s score.

Besides Ms. Spencer, the group’s superb players are Meighan Stoops, clarinetist; David Bowlin, violinist; André Emelianoff, cellist; and Blair McMillen, pianist. In Mr. Chasalow’s work Michael Adelson conducted, and Thomas Kolor was the percussionist.
664 2006-11-23 Carry enough pocket-size electronic gear and you don’t have much pocket space for anything else. So it’s not uncommon to see backpacks and shoulder bags with small pockets to hold cellphones, iPods and other gadgets (and, often, big pockets for laptops). But it’s hard to operate an iPod stored inside a bag. And running headphone cords between the bag and your ears invites snags.

A new messenger bag, the Professional from G-Tech (www.g-techworld.com), is meant to solve these problems. A seemingly abstract pattern of symbols on the strap is actually an iPod remote control, built into the washable fabric. (The technology is ElekTex “smart fabric” from Eleksen.)

Also built into the $129 bag, though not into the fabric, are thin, flexible, washable loudspeakers from NXT that leave your ears free to hear traffic and let you share your music with your friends — and, it should be noted, everyone else within earshot. A built-in connector lets you use the speakers with other music players or with a laptop; the bag has compartments for the laptop, music player and a cellphone. CompUSA and other retailers are carrying it.

If music’s your bag, this might be as well. IVAN BERGER
665 2006-11-23 Medications to treat diabetes are expensive, and there is no cure. For the poor of New York, many of them uninsured, the disease can force difficult decisions between seeking treatment and being able to provide for a family. Almost 50 percent of the poor or working poor in the city have no more than $500 in savings, according to a recent study by the Community Service Society of New York, another of the charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund. The fund’s 95th annual campaign began on Nov. 4 and will continue through Feb. 9.

For people struggling with the burdens of diabetes and poverty, an emergency infusion of money from the fund can ease the despair the disease can cause, provide time to get back on track and help restore dignity.

The money raised during this period will continue a long history of providing help to people like Mr. Monroe, who has been battling the disease and raising his sons alone since their mother abandoned the family several years ago.

“Sometimes I look at my leg and it is really, really bad,” said Mr. Monroe, 43, gripping his cane and carefully settling into a living room chair. His left calf was swollen and black. “Every doctor tells me something different.”

Before diabetes, Mr. Monroe was a strong man who hauled heavy boxes and labored in stockrooms. He would spend his free time with his sons, Shakheem Scott, now 8, and Rasheem Monroe, 7. They enjoyed fishing on lazy weekend afternoons.

But since his second foot operation, last fall, Mr. Monroe is more likely to stay upstairs and watch his sons play in the backyard of their apartment building. They sometimes fight over a bike. “I could only afford one,” he said. “They have to learn to share.”

The operation last fall removed the gangrene from his foot, but not the throbbing pain. “The pain, I can’t tell you about the pain, boy,” he said, shaking his head.

On his bedside table, there is a cluster of pill bottles. One prescription is for pain and one controls his blood pressure. He also takes pills for his diabetes, in addition to injecting insulin twice a day.

Working a stockroom job has been impossible since it became painful just to stand up, he said.

Mr. Monroe lives on Supplemental Security Income payments of $651 a month and $174 a month in welfare. Medicaid covers most of his medical care. He pays $225 in rent for his subsidized apartment and $125 for electricity every month. What is left is used to pay for transportation to doctors, co-payments for his medications, food and, if possible, clothing for the boys.

“I didn’t think I was going to come down with sugar,” he said. “My mother warned me not to eat ice cream. I didn’t listen.” Now he is afraid to eat, he said. Unable to afford fresh produce, he buys canned or frozen food.

And he sometimes breaks down and gives the boys “kid food” like frankfurters or cereal. He spends $60 in addition to $93 in food stamps for groceries every month.

“I raise my boys like my mother raised me and my four brothers. She told us to love one another,” Mr. Monroe said. “That’s the same thing I tell to my boys.”

Since his foot problems began, he has worried about losing the children. That possibility seemed imminent about a year ago.

He and the boys were living in a shelter when he had the foot operation last fall. While he was recovering in the hospital, an Administration for Children’s Services caseworker inquired about the boys, who were staying with Mr. Monroe’s mother in another part of Brooklyn and were not going to school.

When he was released from the hospital, the children’s services agency asked the shelter to help Mr. Monroe obtain the subsidized apartment in which he now lives.

The agency also contacted the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service. Marilyn Mellien-Harris, a caseworker who visited Mr. Monroe in his new home, saw that the boys had outgrown their clothes and that the apartment was bare. With $648 from the Neediest Cases she bought some pants and shirts and a dining table and chairs. She also assigned morning and evening homemakers, who tidy the apartment and prepare the boys’ meals and get them ready for school.

“I am grateful for the table and for their service,” Mr. Monroe said. “Without them I would be lost. I was doing it before, but I had more strength then.”

Most of the other furnishings in the home are items that Mr. Monroe found on the street. “You would be surprised with what people throw away,” he said. He spent $175 at a secondhand store to buy bunk beds for the boys. But just before he sat down in his living room for an interview, the bunk beds collapsed.

“When I see it crumble, I said, ‘Oh, my God, now I have to focus on that,’ ” Mr. Monroe said. He stood up, leaning on a cane, and limped into the boys’ room. He directed the boys to put the twin mattresses on the floor.

“I don’t want to sleep on the floor,” Rasheem said in a tiny voice.

Mr. Monroe responded: “But the bed fall apart. Now Daddy’s got to do something to get you another bunk bed.”

“I can’t tell you that, Ra Ra,” Mr. Monroe said. “I can’t tell you that, boy. I don’t know myself.”

The Brooklyn community service bureau responded, using $478 of Neediest Cases money, and within weeks Shakheem and Rasheem had new bunk beds.

Before Nusrat Anwar, 60, and Mohammad Anwar, 61, of Forest Hills, Queens, learned nine years ago that they had diabetes, they were content, knowing that they were raising two wonderful children.

“I was so happy when my girls were born, I remember giving everyone presents to celebrate,” said Mrs. Anwar, a teacher at the Therese Cervini Head Start Center in Queens.

She pulled an album off a bookshelf to show off family photographs, including some of her daughters, Faroghe, 20, and Fatima, 18.

“But now I can’t see their faces,” she said, leafing past pictures of her own wedding 20 years ago in Pakistan, and stopping to pull out a photograph of a young woman with long raven hair — Faroghe. Though she could not see the picture clearly, she knew it by its size.

Mrs. Anwar described her blurred vision: “It is narrow from the top, then spreads, then extends and squeezes.”

“When you put a pencil in the water, it is dented. That is the same with me,” she added.

Her vision is getting worse despite two cataract operations and laser surgery. She is worried that she will lose her sight completely. “I’ll miss seeing my children, my work, colors,” she said, her voice drifting off. “I won’t be able to read anymore or write poetry.”

The Anwars, unlike Mr. Monroe, do not have a strong family history of the disease. They are not overweight, and they do not eat sweets or drink alcohol.

“I don’t know why I have the disease,” said Mrs. Anwar, who moved to the city from Pakistan to join her husband just after they married. “Sometimes I blame New York.”

Mrs. Anwar learned that she had diabetes after an annual health exam at her school, which is financed by Catholic Charities of Brooklyn and Queens, another of the seven agencies supported by the Neediest Cases. Shortly after the diagnosis, her husband’s doctor told him that he, too, had diabetes.

The illness affects Mrs. Anwar more than it does her husband, she said. Even with her medication and a change in diet, her cholesterol level is too high. “My doctor says if I don’t get it under control, my diabetes won’t improve,” she said.

Her sugar levels are not Mrs. Anwar’s only health concern. She takes pills for arthritis, osteoporosis and the canker sores on her tongue. She has drops for a recurrent ear infection. Last month, she had a fungal infection on a toe.

The Anwars have health insurance, so visits to a doctor cost them a $10 co-payment. But even though their plan covers 80 percent of the cost of their prescriptions, the Anwars must pay full price at the pharmacy and wait for the insurer to reimburse them. “When you have to pay $400 to $600 at a time it is really hard,” Mrs. Anwar said.

With the out-of-pocket costs for medicine and a mortgage payment of $1,900 a month, they barely get by on her salary and the money her husband makes as a driver for a car service, she said. As soon as money comes in, she pays it out.

“Sometimes I am afraid something will happen to me,” she said. The family has no savings. Recently the Anwars did not have $1,000 for college fees for Faroghe, who is a junior studying communications and journalism on scholarship at Fordham University. Faroghe’s wages from a part-time job paid for textbooks.

Mrs. Anwar received $1,000 from an unexpected source: the Head Start school where she works. Natalia Sabatini from Catholic Charities of Brooklyn and Queens was able to get the money, from Neediest Cases, to cover Faroghe’s school fees.

“I couldn’t believe it,” Ms. Anwar said. “ I was really grateful.”

Faroghe, too, was appreciative. “It is one less thing to worry about,” she said, looking at her mother.

Jacqueline Drake, who turns 40 today, has lived with diabetes for 12 years. With help from the Community Service Society of New York, an agency supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, she said, she is finally ready to deal with her disease.

“Forty is going to be my year,” said Ms. Drake, sitting on a chair in her apartment in Park Slope, Brooklyn, surrounded by a bookshelf, a new sink, stacks of pans and some boxes. “I have so much to be thankful for.”

“I have a brand-new apartment, I have a job, my mother is alive and well, and it’s a better time now,” she said. “Before it was so bad.”

She says she has put an end to years of destructive choices in relationships and food, and she has learned to manage her diabetes. As a birthday present to herself she plans to have gastric bypass surgery within the next year.

“You see this?” she said, holding her belly. “I am morbidly obese. I thought I was just fat.”

Ms. Drake, a home health aide, knows that the operation will not cure her diabetes, but it is likely to lead to greater mobility and make it easier for her to exercise. The cost of the operation will be covered by health insurance provided through her union, 1199 United Healthcare Workers East. Union representatives, she said, determined that paying for her surgery would prove less expensive in the long run: she estimated that insulin costs her insurer about $1,500 a year.

Her weight problem, she said, stemmed from bad eating habits she formed in childhood. It caught up with her in her late 20s, when she began to experience one of the first symptoms of diabetes.

“I was drinking, drinking, drinking — soda, water, whatever I could drink,” she said. Her mother recognized the warning sign and persuaded her daughter to go to the emergency room, where Ms. Drake found out her glucose level was dangerously high — 960, far beyond the normal range of 80 to 130. “They were surprised I was actually able to walk into the hospital,” she said. “I went straight to insulin.”

At the time, she worked hourly jobs and did not have health insurance. Not understanding the gravity of the disease, she said, she stopped taking the insulin because it was expensive and inconvenient. Soon her eyesight became blurred and her body weak, and one day she passed out. For the second time in six months, she found herself in the emergency room.

“Because I was working, I couldn’t get Medicaid or qualify for food stamps,” she said. “You are right in the middle crack, and you are trying to reach out. It was like, don’t you all see my hand? I need help.”

Without help, she said, she could not always afford to buy insulin. She wound up back in the hospital again.

Becoming a home health aide provided Ms. Drake with a bit more stability. Her assignments sometimes required her to live with elderly clients for long periods of time; when they did not, she would rent cheap apartments and depend on what her clients had for food — usually provisions from food banks. It was not the best diet for her diabetes, but she had no other choice, she said.

“I’m a home health aide,” she said. “You wouldn’t believe that we take care of ourselves worse than anyone.”

By the beginning of 2001, she was working 20 hours a week and qualified for health insurance through the health care workers’ union.

While she was beginning to succeed at her job, Ms. Drake was not doing as well in her personal life. She had met a man who was charming and made her feel important, but who partied too much, she said. She thought she could help him, she said, but soon he took advantage of her good will and put her in financial peril.

In early 2003 they moved in together, signing a lease on an $1,100-a-month two-bedroom apartment in Crown Heights. But she discovered he was cheating on her while she was at work, and by November 2003 she had moved out.

“I saw so much potential,” she said. “I thought by helping him I could help myself, but he ended up pulling me down.” Ms. Drake found a one-bedroom apartment in the same complex for $775, and she thought her name had been taken off the first lease.

By the middle of 2004, she said, she hit a dry patch at work and could not pay her rent, which had increased to $815. She owed more than $3,000 in rent.

When she approached her union for a loan, she was turned down because her name was still associated with the apartment she had shared with her former companion. He had left it, owing $7,000 in back rent.

“I was so frustrated,” she said. “I wasn’t going to pay his rent.”

At housing court she was given the number of the Community Service Society, another of the seven charities supported by Neediest Cases.

She spoke with Madelyne Hidalgo, a caseworker, who helped Ms. Drake with the paperwork needed to clear her of responsibility for her former companion’s back rent. Ms. Drake received the loan from her union, but she still owed slightly more than a month’s rent and was on the verge of eviction.

Ms. Hidalgo used $914 in Neediest Cases money to pay the outstanding amount. Ms. Drake said settling the matter made her feel that her life could begin again.

Last April, she learned of a vacancy in the Park Slope apartment building where her mother, Ellen Drake, 66, lives; the previous tenant, a diabetic elderly man whom Ms. Drake had become friendly with while visiting her mother, had died.

At $775 a month, the rent-controlled apartment was affordable. Ms. Drake got the apartment, but did not have money to move her possessions out of storage. Ms. Hidalgo helped her again, using $594 from the Neediest Cases for the move.

“I can’t believe I have my stuff back,” Ms. Drake said. Her crystal candy bowls are especially precious to her, she said, because they were gifts from women whom she once cared for.

“Before I was in contact with Community Service Society and the Neediest, I was depressed and all my bills was backed up,” She said. “You name what was wrong, was wrong.”

But her outlook has improved. “Forty is going to be my time,” she said. “It is all about me.”
666 2006-11-23 To the Editor:     ''Israeli Map Says West Bank Posts Sit on Arab Land'' (front page, Nov. 21) was unfortunately accurate. I say ''unfortunately'' because this illegal confiscation of Palestinian lands by Israel has continued for years, as my fami...
667 2006-11-23 REVENGE OF THE FLIER -- Air travelers, who have endured full flights and a 15 percent increase in ticket prices this year, are exacting revenge with aggressive searches for deals that analysts say are beginning to force down prices. [Page A1.]    ...
668 2006-11-23 Twelve games and eight losses into his self-established 15-game evaluation period, Isiah Thomas finally concluded what everyone else who follows the Knicks has been saying since training camp: Stephon Marbury and Steve Francis cannot thrive in the...
669 2006-11-23 Photo of several of 90 houses damaged by explosion at chemical plant in Danvers, Mass...
670 2006-11-24 In your opinion, what are the best bars and clubs in Crescent City? Back to Article...
671 2006-11-24 Since then, several other government and business leaders have been arrested or called in for questioning in a widening probe of official wrongdoing involving bribery or stealing government funds.

Some experts say the ongoing corruption investigations are being used as a political weapon to remove government officials who are not loyal to President Hu Jintao.

But most analysts also say that corruption is endemic here and that it is threatening the country’s prosperity.

“The social security fund is the key to the stability of the society,” said Zhu Lijia, a professor of public administration at the National School of Administration in Beijing. “This affects a large number of retirees and unemployed workers who live on the money. That’s why there have been huge disturbances in various places.”

The social security fund fraud was uncovered by the national audit office, which for the past few years has been systematically scrutinizing the books of government agencies and institutions and then releasing its findings to the public.

The “audit storm,” as it has been dubbed in the state-controlled press here, has uncovered a stunning degree of corruption in the nation’s biggest banks, hospitals, ministries and even in smaller departments, like the lottery division of the national sports body.

Last year, for instance, the National Audit Office said that more than $35 billion of government money was misused.

The government also said it handled 147,000 corruption cases last year and that regulators had uncovered more than $60 billion in “irregularities” at the big four state-owned banks.

Still, after huge government bailouts, three of the big four state owned banks have gone public in Hong Kong in the past 14 months.

The National Social Security Fund invested in several of those public offerings and earned about $7.5 billion on its investments, according to a report earlier this month by Xinhua, the official state run news agency.

But last year, the social security fund managed to cover only about 43 million people in China, a country that today has more than 220 million people over the age of 60.

By 2040, that figure is expected to nearly double, reaching about 400 million, according to the United Nations.
672 2006-11-24 You cannot abuse people through selective enforcement of the law. You cannot single people out for special punishment without cause. You cannot instruct the police to harass people for being Latino and poor. Cities and towns across the country have overlooked these basics in their eagerness to punish those they presume to have violated federal immigration laws. But thankfully for all of us, the Constitution still has the final say.

On Monday, a federal judge ruled that Mamaroneck, a village in suburban Westchester County, N.Y., had waged a discriminatory campaign of ticketing and harassment to drive Latino day laborers out of town.

In Freehold, N.J., last week, advocates for immigrants hailed the settlement of a three-year-old lawsuit sparked by similar mistreatment. Day laborers there will no longer be ticketed for soliciting work in public places, and building inspectors and police officers will stop entering homes without residents’ consent in what the advocates said was a selective crackdown on Latinos in rental housing.

That followed a heartening ruling issued last May, when a federal judge ordered the city of Redondo Beach, Calif., to stop arresting day laborers for violating a local ordinance against soliciting work in public.

Together these victories send an important message about basic rights and promise to help stem a tide of local vigilantism. The underlying problem, however, remains. The righteous ardor of the Mamaronecks and Freeholds of this world has risen in direct proportion to the federal paralysis on immigration. It underscores the urgent need for Congress and the president to step up to the perennially difficult task of determining who may cross our borders and how, and of creating a fair and viable path out of the shadows for deserving immigrants who are living and working here illegally.

And while the courts have upheld the basic rights of an abused minority, they have not made day laborers any more welcome in their communities or helped local governments find ways to treat them with dignity while upholding residents’ desires for a reasonable amount of order. The judge who assailed Mamaroneck, saying it was beyond doubt “that the village acted with malicious or bad-faith intent to injure the day laborers,” added that she had also found no law that would compel it to create a hiring site for them.
673 2006-11-24 Wanting a quick meal, Ms. Shelby said, she and her 15-year-old cousin had stopped at the restaurant, the Round the Clock, a popular spot in this pocket of northwest Indiana, on Aug. 12. After cleaning their plates, the pair simply got up and left. They made it to the parking lot.

“Our waitress chased her down,” said the restaurant manager, Milan Radinovich. “We called the cops, and the prosecutors and judge took it from there.”

This month, rather than simply sentence Ms. Shelby to six months of probation, which is not unusual for a minor offense, Judge David Chidester of Porter County Court went a step further. Harking back to the old idea that if a customer cannot pay his tab, he can work it off washing dishes, Judge Chidester gave Ms. Shelby a choice: work in the restaurant’s kitchen until the debt was paid, or spend a day in the lockup.

“We said no,” Mr. Radinovich said. “We wanted nothing to do with her. Get out. Stay out.”

So off to the county jail it was for Ms. Shelby, who had to leave the baby at home for a full day of washing dishes for inmates spending Thanksgiving behind bars.

After being dropped off at the jail promptly at 9 a.m. by her mother, who “was not very happy,” Ms. Shelby said, she donned the dark red jail garb and headed to the kitchen, where the turkey was being prepared.

But maybe 30 minutes into her shift, Ms. Shelby took ill, and was told by jail officials to sit down and rest. Before long, she was consulting with the medical staff, who thought she had perhaps come down with the flu, according to Ms. Shelby and a jail guard who escorted her.

The dishwashing was over, but the sentence was not. Unable to reach the judge, jail supervisors told Ms. Shelby they had little choice but to keep her in a cell until her scheduled release at 6 p.m.

“Do I think I deserve this?” she said. “I didn’t pay. We ditched. But they told me I wouldn’t have to wear the jail clothes, and look at me. They told me I would wash dishes, and I’m in a cell, locked up.”

To make matters worse, Ms. Shelby said, the publicity surrounding her sentence cost her a job. A high school dropout, Ms. Shelby completed a course to become a certified nursing assistant and was hired at a rehabilitation center in the weeks after her arrest.

“But all the news, they just fired me,” Ms. Shelby said. “I had made enough to pay back my family the $325 bail they put up for me to get out. But I have no job now. Looking for work.”

Sgt. Michael Grennes of the Valparaiso Police Department said the punishment was just.

“They decided to get up and leave,” he said, noting that Ms. Shelby’s 15-year-old cousin, who is pregnant, was charged as a juvenile in the case. “The judge decided to do something unusual here, to teach a lesson. Perhaps it’s an important lesson learned.”

Ms. Shelby said she understood her family’s anger and embarrassment, and even the punishment the judge gave her — if only in part. But Thursday was Thanksgiving.

“My baby’s at home, and I want to get back to her,” she said. “That’s what I’m looking forward to. I can give thanks.”
674 2006-11-24 When she was 18 and living in New Brunswick, N.J., Minnie met her future husband. Mr. Silver, after brief stints working in a candle factory, selling balloons to tourists in Manhattan and delivering seltzer, was going to Hebrew school. He used his own money because his father would not pay, his wife recalled. In his family, girls married and boys learned a trade.

To placate his father, Mr. Silver also enrolled in trade school to learn granite cutting, eventually apprenticing to a stonecutter.

“He didn’t like it at first,” Mrs. Silver said. “He had hulky hands, and the tools were too small.”

“ ‘What does Sam have on his pinkie?’ ” Minnie recalled her father asking about Sam’s livelihood. “ ‘I’m very proud to have that,’ ” she remembered Mr. Silver replying, showing a large callus on his finger. “ ‘This means that I am a full-fledged monument maker.’ ”

Mr. Silver explained that part of mastering the trade meant hitting the finger used to secure the engraving tool so many times it showed cuts and bruises. The next day, Minnie’s father drove to a monument dealer and told the workers to show him their hands. All of them had calluses on their pinkie fingers. Satisfied that his future son-in-law was not a common laborer, he approved the union.

Mr. Silver yearned to open his own business, and the couple decided on the Lower East Side, where there used to be one monument establishment after another.

At a time before women worked in the business, the customers who came to the Silvers’ store always asked for “the owner, which meant your husband,” Mrs. Silver said. But word eventually got around that “Sam’s wife is selling monuments,” and doing very well at it. “Selling monuments is a personal thing,” Mrs. Silver said. “You say, ‘Tell me something about your mother.’ You want to show something that fit her personality.”

The monument district started dying out as the Jewish population dispersed and rents rose. The Silvers, who have owned their building since the mid-1950s, managed to take over most of the remaining customers.

The store is filled with examples of their work. On one family monument, a mother who was a seamstress was remembered by a spool of thread. On others, a feather in an inkwell for a son who was a writer; the scales of justice for a lawyer; an “Rx” for a pharmacist. Gravestones have been adorned by a deck of cards, a slot machine and a tennis racket.

Many customers have bought an engraving of candlesticks for their mothers because they were the ones who lighted the Shabbat candles every Friday night. Others would bring in a photograph of challah bread, which an artist reproduced. Tears came to Mrs. Silver’s eyes as she recounted one of the many difficult visits and a woman’s screams from half a century ago, which she still could hear. The woman came in with her husband and her parents to choose a monument for her 5-year-old son, who had been killed in a car accident.

Murray Silver, who has no plans to retire, said he never found the business morbid. He worked with his father until he retired a few years before he died. Mrs. Silver still calls Murray “my baby,” who played in the showroom as a child and worked there through high school and while he went to Pace University.

“We never had to teach him the business,” she said. He took a gravestone blueprint to school for show and tell. Customers still come in talking about him when he was a boy, Mr. Silver said. “They say, ‘There used to be a little boy running around here.’ ”
675 2006-11-24 By 1944, a different breach opened on D-Day as Allied forces landed on the beaches on June 6 to begin the liberation of France and the press to the east that ended World War II. “Without the English and the Americans there would be no Europe today,” said Pascal Azais, a real estate agent here.

But these days, relations between Britain and France are writ smaller in the commercial print of cheap liquor and mortgages on second homes for the British. If royal houses once intermarried and fought wars across the channel, the bond is tied now by loaded British cars heading south to summer homes and French business-types scanning their palm-size computers for e-mail on the Eurostar high-speed train to London.

To the consternation of some, however, one more invader has appeared on the horizon — a low-cost airline called Ryanair that plans three scheduled flights a week from Britain, beginning March 1.

In advance, there have been newspaper articles suggesting a certain Gallic disdain toward the notion of British day-trippers toting brown-bag picnics and lowering the tone of this most tony of resorts.

“The English do not spend much money, that is well known,” said Christiane Célice, leader of a movement opposed to the flights.

People here like to call their town of 4,000 the “21st Arrondissement of Paris” because so many Parisians have homes here, and they see it as a playground for the elite. The actor Gérard Depardieu and the likely presidential contender Nicolas Sarkozy, for example, are said to frolic here, not to mention American actors like George Clooney and Robert De Niro at the annual film festival.

“We have nothing against the English, quite the opposite,” Ms. Célice said in an interview. “We want the English to come, but we ask them not to come on Ryanair.”

But in conversations with people here, pro and con, the debate was more nuanced: “not in my backyard” versus the hope that the backyard might be renovated at someone else’s expense.

But much of it has to do with the impact of low-cost air travel, particularly from Britain, on many regions of France where flights have brought the British in droves to snap up cheap French real estate as retirement or vacation retreats.

“When we started flying into Pau,” in the Pyrenees, “house prices tripled,” said Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, based in Dublin, a sharp-tongued and not exactly publicity-averse businessman who revels in the free advertising offered by Ms. Célice’s campaign.

But that process has also drawn many of Normandy’s traditional British visitors away to regions that already have cheap air service.

“This is the only region in France with no scheduled flight to London,” said Christian Fougeray, president of the local Chamber of Commerce, which has struck a deal to give Ryanair favorable terms for using the tiny airport at St.-Gatien, just outside Deauville and its sister resort, Trouville. Currently, the airport is used annually by about 200 charter flights heading south and about 800 private jet flights. Getting here from London usually means a long train or car ride.

“We don’t want to lose the English clientele going to other parts of France,” Mr. Fougeray said in an interview at the airport as one business jet landed bearing a snowy-haired man who did not wish to be identified by name. “I am not Sarkozy!” he exclaimed, somewhat enigmatically, as he hurried off with a retinue of aides.

There are many other issues, though, said Ms. Célice, whose home is close to the runway that Ryanair would use. Will more flights damage the environment, she asked, and will they overload the roads and restaurants? “I just don’t want the region to degenerate,” she said. “People come here to rest; they come here for the cheese, the Calvados, the chateaus. They are looking for peace and quiet.”

But Mr. Fougeray said: “Three hundred more English a week are not going to make that much difference. The English are our friends and they are going to bring a little wealth.”

Even house prices are not likely to soar, because the press of Parisians seeking properties has already pushed prices up, said Mr. Azais, the real estate agent, who is offering at least one home for more than $1 million.

So how do the outsiders here feel about this sudden attention? Phillip Loose and his wife, Simone, have a particular perspective because they are missionaries from an evangelical Protestant church in Britain, effectively trying to reverse the 17th-century expulsion of the Protestant Huguenots from predominantly Roman Catholic France.

“We have never found any hint of anti-Englishness,” Mr. Loose said in an interview at his home in Dives-sur-Mer, although, Mrs. Loose added, “the French do like to tease us about William the Conqueror — they ask if we have come to take our revenge.”
676 2006-11-24 On Nov. 25, 1926, Macy’s held a small parade for the third Thanksgiving in a row. The main purpose of the three-block-long procession, which made its way from the City College of New York, at 137th Street and Convent Avenue, to Herald Square, was to mark the start of the Christmas season. The procession had live zoo animals, but no giant balloons. About 10,000 people lined the streets to watch.

A highlight of this modest affair was Helen Olstein, a 21-year-old employee from the Macy’s customer-complaint department. Wearing a dress and crown and pulled in a horse-drawn carriage, she was the queen of the parade, attended by other Macy’s employees who were playing her ladies-in-waiting.

How did Miss Olstein, a nice Jewish girl from the Bronx, get selected for this honor? A Macy’s manager organizing the parade had spotted her and asked if she would like to take part.

Miss Olstein, now Helen Gross, turned 101 on May 13. She was the queen in the parade — a role long since retired — in 1926 and 1927. Now living in a retirement community in Plantation, Fla., Mrs. Gross returned as a guest yesterday for the 80th Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade, watching the affair from a front-row seat in front of the flagship store on Broadway. On either side were her daughters, Mimi Goldman, 76, and Barbara Cohn, 72.

“It was a delicious time, and we had so much fun,” Mrs. Gross recalled of her role as queen. The first giant balloons — four of them, Felix the Cat being the most famous — made their debuts in 1927, but Mrs. Gross does not remember them well. “I wasn’t sitting there, watching the parade,” she said. “I was in it!”
677 2006-11-24 “These ideas are the future,” said David Atkinson, a private investor who attended another lecture later that day by Mr. Kurzweil. “I’m not really sure I understand them, but they’re making some folks rich.”

Complicated stock picking methods are nothing new. For decades, Wall Street firms and hedge funds like D. E. Shaw have snapped up math and engineering Ph.D.s and assigned them to find hidden market patterns. When these analysts discover subtle relationships, like similarities in the price movements of Microsoft and I.B.M., investors seek profits by buying one stock and selling the other when their prices diverge, betting historical patterns will eventually push them back into synchronicity.

Today, such methods have achieved a widespread use unimaginable just five years ago. The Internet has put almost every data source within easy reach. New software programs, like the Apama Algorithmic Trading Platform, have made it possible for day traders to build complicated trading algorithms almost as easily as they drag an icon across a digital desktop.

“Five years ago it would have taken $500,000 and 12 people to do what today takes a few computers and co-workers,” said Louis Morgan, managing director of HG Trading, a three-person hedge fund in Wisconsin. “I’m executing 1,500 to 2,000 trades a day and monitoring 1,500 pairs of stocks. My software can automatically execute a trade within 20 milliseconds — five times faster than it would take for my finger to hit the buy button.”

Studies estimate that a third of all stock trades in the United States were driven by automatic algorithms last year, contributing to an explosion in stock market activity. Between 1995 and 2005, the average daily volume of shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange increased to 1.6 billion from 346 million.

But in recent years, as algorithms and traditional quantitative techniques have multiplied, their successes have slowed.

“Now it’s an arms race,” said Andrew Lo, director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Laboratory for Financial Engineering. “Everyone is building more sophisticated algorithms, and the more competition exists, the smaller the profits.”

So investment firms have increasingly begun exploring mathematics’ furthest edges and turning to people like Mr. Kurzweil, who became an expert in pattern recognition building a reading machine for the blind.

For years, computer scientists had tried to help machines perform mundane tasks like reading printed words or telling faces apart. With algorithms similar to those used by stock pickers, programmers created millions of rules designed to tell an “A” from an “a.” But no machine could read a page of text as well as the average child.

So Mr. Kurzweil and others took a different tack: instead of creating sequential rules to instruct a computer to read, they thought, why not create thousands of random rules and let the computer figure out what works?

The result was nonlinear decision making processes more akin to how a brain operates. So-called “neural networks” and “genetic algorithms” have become common in higher-level computer science. Neural networks permit computers to create new rules and automatically change underlying assumptions by experimenting with thousands of random sequences and processes. Genetic algorithms encourage software to “evolve” by letting different rules compete, and combining the most successful outcomes.

Wall Street has rushed to mimic the techniques. Because arbitrage opportunities disappear so quickly now, neural networks have emerged that can consider thousands of scenarios at once. It is unlikely, for instance, that Microsoft will begin selling ice-cream or I.B.M. will declare bankruptcy, but a nonlinear system can consider such possibilities, and thousands of others, without overtaxing computers that must be ready to react in milliseconds.

“Most software fails in pattern recognition because there aren’t enough sequential rules in the world to teach a computer to discern between two faces, or to find almost imperceptible relationships between stocks,” said Orhan Karaali, a computer scientist and director at Advanced Investment Partners, a $1.7 billion hedge fund. “But a machine that can generate complicated rules a person would never have thought of, and that can learn from past mistakes is a powerful tool.”

Last year, the funds using Mr. Karaali’s model returned in excess of 20 percent by using nonlinear techniques, according to his company. Whereas older methods of stock analysis rely on certain assumptions — for instance, that market volatility always reverts to the mean — Mr. Karaali’s model calculates probabilities and generates assumptions on the fly, and might predict that during a panic, investors will sell Microsoft but, for seemingly irrational reasons, hold onto I.B.M.

“Only an elite group of people are using these ideas, but a lot of people are thinking about them,” said Stacy Williams, director of quantitative strategies at HSBC Global Markets. HSBC is working with Cambridge University in using models based on how viruses spread to forecast foreign currency markets.

“The downside with these systems is their black box-ness,” Mr. Williams said. “Traders have intuitive senses of how the world works. But with these systems you pour in a bunch of numbers, and something comes out the other end, and it’s not always intuitive or clear why the black box latched onto certain data or relationships.”

Such qualms, however, have not stopped Wall Street from scouring university doctoral programs or listening to people like Mr. Kurzweil.

In the pursuit of previously undetectable patterns, hedge funds are racing to quantify things — like newspaper headlines — that were previously immune from number-crunching.

Both Dow Jones Newswires and Reuters have transformed decades of news archives into numerical data for use in designing and testing algorithmic systems. The companies are beginning to structure news so it can be absorbed by quantitative models within milliseconds of release.

Moreover, companies like Progress Software are working with news agencies to create computer programs that instantly translate news — for example, a headline regarding Microsoft’s earnings — into data. M.I.T. is examining, among other things, evaluating companies by seeing how many positive versus negative words are used in a newspaper article.

Software in development could potentially respond automatically to almost anything; changes in weather forecasts on television news, shifting analyst sentiments or what a particular movie critic said about the new blockbuster.

“Right now, everyone basically has access to the same data,” said John Bates, a Progress Software executive. “To get an edge, we want to give investors the ability to immediately turn news into numbers. We want to automate what before required human analysis.”

But as these new techniques proliferate, some worry that promotion is outpacing reality. These techniques may be better for marketing than stock picking.

“Investment firms fall over themselves advertising their latest, most esoteric systems,” said Mr. Lo of M.I.T., who was asked by a $20 billion pension fund to design a neural network. He declined after discovering the investors had no real idea how such networks work.

“There are some pretty substantial misconceptions about what these things can and cannot do,” he said. “As with any black box, if you don’t know why it works, you won’t realize when it’s stopped working. Even a broken watch is right twice a day.”
678 2006-11-24 Bayer, the German drug maker, agreed to sell its H. C. Starck unit to two private-equity companies, Advent International and the Carlyle Group, for 700 million euros ($908 million). The buyers will also assume 450 million euros in debt. Advent and Carlyle plan to sell shares in Starck, which makes materials like metal powders used to coat turbine components in jet engines, in three to five years. The sale will help finance Bayer’s acquisition of Schering for 17 billion euros announced earlier this year and shift the company’s focus toward health care products. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

German business confidence rose unexpectedly in November, matching a 15-year high, as export and investment prospects improved in the economy, Europe’s largest. The Ifo institute’s sentiment index, based on responses from 7,000 executives, climbed to 106.8 from 105.3 in October, touching a level last reached in June. The report suggests the economy will weather a planned tax increase next year, which has clouded growth prospects since it was announced by Chancellor Angela Merkel a year ago. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Euronext scheduled a meeting on Dec. 19 for shareholders to vote on the NYSE Group’s $15 billion takeover bid as the exchanges seek to create the first trans-Atlantic market. The meeting will be in Amsterdam, said Euronext, which is based in Paris. Euronext’s board is recommending the offer. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

South Korea’s central bank ordered banks to increase reserves for the first time in almost 17 years to rein in household debt and help curb surging property prices. The Bank of Korea raised the required reserve ratio on demand deposits to 7 percent from 5 percent. Higher reserves mean that commercial banks have less money available to lend. The move comes after five increases in the central bank’s benchmark interest rate between October 2005 and August. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Brazil’s jobless rate fell to a nine-month low in October and bank lending rose as declining interest rates buoyed consumer demand for credit. The unemployment rate in Brazil’s six largest metropolitan areas dropped to 9.8 percent from 10 percent in September, the government said. A separate central bank report showed loans from state and nonstate banks rose 1.9 percent last month, to 697 billion reais ($321 billion) from 684 billion reais in September. The reports suggest the expansion in the economy, Latin America’s biggest, is picking up after the central bank trimmed the benchmark lending rate six percentage points in 14 months, to 13.75 percent. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
679 2006-11-24 “When you talk about engagement, as a lot of marketers are, people talking about your brand is the ultimate engagement,” said Ed Keller, the chief executive of Keller Fay and also president of the Word of Mouth Marketing Association.

Word-of-mouth marketing has grown in popularity in recent years. But most of it focuses on generating buzz among consumers — often by distributing free products. Keller Fay aims to understand what customers are saying on their own.

On average, Keller Fay finds that people discuss about a dozen brands each day. The most discussed brands are media and entertainment products like movies, TV shows and publications. But many people also discuss food products, travel brands and stores. Target, K-Mart, Sears, J. C. Penney, Gap, Victoria’s Secret and Wal-Mart rank among the retailers most frequently mentioned.

More often than not, people have positive things to say about products, usually after being asked for a recommendation, Mr. Keller said. People most often say positive things about personal care and household products. The most often criticized are financial services firms and telecommunications companies.

The diaries, while often brief, provide a glimpse of the world that might be useful to sociologists and future historians. Wal-Mart figures prominently.

A 44-year-old woman in Ohio said in her diary: “We refilled my prescription and then went shopping for a new grill at Wal-Mart.” A Michigan woman in her mid-60s said she chatted about Wal-Mart over lunch one day when her friend was “showing off her cheap purse.”

In upstate New York, a 21-year-old woman went shopping at Wal-Mart for “the new baby.” And, in April, a 41-year-old woman in North Carolina said, “let’s go to Wal-Mart to get your stuff for Iraq.”

While some people said they wished Wal-Mart would stop opening more stores, others defended the discount retailer. A 42-year old man from northern California said, “the anti-Wal-Mart people are missing the big picture.”

Those who listen in on conversations should be willing to tolerate criticism. Many companies avoid hearing what customers are saying because they do not want to hear complaints, said Todd Tweedy, chief executive of BoldMouth, a word-of-mouth marketing agency in Charlottesville, Va. “Some advertisers just aren’t ready to be more customer-facing,” Mr. Tweedy said.

BoldMouth has joined with a software company, BuzzLogic, to create a product available in January that will help companies monitor what people say about them on Internet sites. Tracking consumer chatter, though, does not always provide companies with solutions, said Heather Dougherty, senior retail analyst for Nielsen/NetRatings.

“Everyone knows that word of mouth is important, and it’s something that goes on all the time,” Ms. Dougherty said. “But being able to really harness it can be very difficult.”

Word-of-mouth research shows that ads do generate consumer attention. About half of the people who mention products also mention an ad, promotion or article they saw about that company. People say, though, that their conversations with their friends are more credible than advertisements.

Product mentions come up seamlessly in Keller Fay’s records. When people were not busy proclaiming, “I love my iPod,” they were often debating whether young people really need iPods. One 14-year-old boy noted that he wanted a green or silver iPod, but he had to have his name on the back, “just in case it gets stolen.”

The cost of a gallon of milk led a 41-year-old mother in Flint, Mich., to say that “the kids prefer Kraft cheese, particularly macaroni and cheese.” A 21-year-old woman in Pennsylvania talked about a Kraft online fitness and meal plan.

Many consumers keep it simple when discussing brands. In Michigan, an 18-year-old man said last spring: “Easy Mac is good and fast.” But sometimes larger and more complex issues come into play. In May, a 45-year-old woman in Pennsylvania started talking with a co-worker about Kraft and ended up discussing “the pros and cons of genetically modified foods and the lack of accountability of these companies to educate the consumers of our country.”

Mr. Keller said that companies could use word-of-mouth research to guide their advertising process. For example, he said, Keller Fay recently ran a search through a database of diary entries for a luxury goods company to see what consumers were saying about it. It turned out that people with high incomes were not talking about the brand, but people who made less money were talking about it a lot. The luxury goods company, which Mr. Keller would not identify, now plans to refocus its advertisements to reach wealthier customers.
680 2006-11-24 BRUSSELS, Nov. 23 — Microsoft submitted a new batch of technical information about its Windows operating system to the European Commission on Thursday, meeting the latest deadline to provide information on whether it is complying with a 2004 antitrust ruling.

“This is an important milestone,” Microsoft said in a statement. Final edits and technical review of the information already submitted in July have now been completed, it added, insisting that it had not broken the summer deadline.

The commission, which fined Microsoft $357 million in July for failing to comply with the antitrust order, disagrees. Last week, the European competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, expressed growing impatience with Microsoft when she imposed the latest deadline. She described the dossier submitted in July as incomplete and warned Microsoft that it faced daily fines of 3 million euros ($3.9 million) if it did not hand over all the technical information about Windows that the commission had requested.

Her department welcomed the company’s submission. “Now the dossier from Microsoft is worth testing,” her spokesman, Jonathan Todd, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. “Potential licensees of the technical information will be invited to Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond to look at it.”

In the meantime, the commission and the trustee chosen by Microsoft to oversee the process of compliance with the 2004 ruling will examine the newly submitted information, Mr. Todd said.
681 2006-11-24 Many South Koreans were particularly outraged by the fact that many foreign funds did not pay taxes in the country because they were conducting deals through companies in tax havens.

Since March, prosecutors have raided Lone Star’s offices in South Korea and questioned its executives as well as former Korea Exchange executives and government officials.

Last week, prosecutors obtained court warrants to detain Ellis Short, the vice chairman of Lone Star, and Michael Thomson, its general counsel, on charges that they had spread false rumors to drive down the credit card unit’s stock price to reduce the cost of the purchase of Korea Exchange.

On Monday, the prosecutors indicted Korea Exchange and LSF-KEB Holdings — a Brussels company that Lone Star set up in 2003 to take over the bank — on charges of stock-price manipulation, while also seeking the extradition of Mr. Short and Mr. Thomson.

The prosecutors are also looking into allegations that Lone Star collaborated illegally with former executives of Korea Exchange and with government regulators to falsify the bank’s financial data, so that it could acquire a 50.5 percent stake of Korea Exchange for a bargain price of 1.4 trillion won ($1.5 billion). A former president of Korea Exchange is already under arrest.

Lone Star has vehemently denied the allegations, accusing prosecutors of trying to convict the fund “in the court of public opinion.”

Last month, Mr. Grayken called the inquiry “a politically motivated investigation driven by antiforeign investor sentiment that persists in certain segments of Korean society.”

Chae Dong-wook, a senior prosecutor, said Thursday that such an accusation could be tantamount to “libel against a government agency.” The prosecutors will continue with their investigations, he said.

Lone Star was one of a number of foreign investment funds that came to South Korea in the wake of the Asian financial turmoil, snapped up distressed companies and sold them at big profits when the economy recovered.

Although the government officially recognized the deals as legitimate “high-risk, high-gain” investments, their big profit margins have stirred nationalistic sentiment. Some newspapers depicted the funds as profiteering “foreign vultures,” though such criticism appears to have waned in recent months.

From the beginning, prosecutors knew that the Lone Star case would be a delicate one, an investigation that civic groups said would implicate former senior government officials and politicians. At the same time, prosecutors also faced accusations that they might try to please nationalistic politicians in advance of the presidential election next year.

But other experts say that a fierce legal battle between the court and prosecutors over whether to arrest Yoo Hoe-won, the head of Lone Star’s Korea unit, was proof of proper legal procedures at work. A Seoul court has repeatedly rejected the prosecutors’ request for an arrest warrant against Mr. Yoo.

“I don’t think it has anything to do with nationalistic feelings,” said Hong Sun-young, executive director of the macroeconomics department of the Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “I think it has to do with a strictly legal problem.”

In his statement, Mr. Grayken said his company would “again consider our strategic options” once the investigation was complete. Analysts have said Lone Star would seek new bidders in South Korea or abroad.
682 2006-11-24 Andrew Solomon’s proposal for a national network of depression centers beautifully underscores the need to treat this prevalent mental illness with the same seriousness that we treat physical disease.

The advent of cancer centers changed everything for cancer patients, giving them a new-found hope and a greater chance for recovery.

A similar network for depression would have the same effect: bridging the chasm between research and practice, accelerating the availability of new treatments to patients, and reducing the stigma associated with the illness.

Depression treatment centers would facilitate recovery, but the importance of early detection and intervention cannot be overemphasized — when treatment has the greatest chance for success.

We must raise awareness of the symptoms of depression through public education, make screening for depression readily available, and train primary care physicians so they can routinely identify depression in their patients and recommend appropriate treatment.
683 2006-11-24 Other towns had their historic hotels knocked down — the Ocean House in Watch Hill, R.I., struggled for decades and was demolished a year ago, to be replaced by condominiums. Some lesser-known places scarcely ring a bell — unless, of course, you summered there as a child: Eagles Mere, Pa., Murray Bay in Quebec, Narragansett Pier in Rhode Island and Nahant, near Boston.

An autumn visit to three summer resorts that a century or more ago were retreats of the socially powerful — Jekyll Island; Bar Harbor, Me.; and Long Branch, N.J. — offered lessons in tourism, historic preservation and redevelopment. And nowadays, you don’t have to have a patrician’s pocketbook to stay at them.

At the Jekyll Island Club — now a hotel open to the public, yet looking very much the same as it did a century ago — it is now impossible to guess the origins of the guests in the room or cottage next door, and why would you want to? At the club a few weeks ago, the major sport — besides croquet and golf — might be called not birding but briding. While some guests were having Victorian tea in the elliptical parlor, a couple were being married under a chuppah on the lawn.

As they took their vows, another bride, wearing a strapless evening dress, passed by with her groom and some ushers; the brides nodded to each other. A few buildings away, a group of marines practiced raising their swords in front of a shingled chapel; on the beach, at another rehearsal, a plaid-shirted father followed the minister’s instructions and walked his blue-jeaned daughter toward the ocean. (The next day, only cerise-and-white carnation petals remained, scattered on the sand.)

AT Jekyll, at least, the memory of the members of yore — J. P. Morgan Sr. and Jr., William Rockefeller, the sons of Jay Gould, Vincent Astor, William K. Vanderbilt, Edward S. Harkness, Marshall Field and others — is burnished and perpetuated by the hotel’s management, which hangs sepia photographs in the halls and operates the hotel subject to the preservation mandates of the State of Georgia, the island’s owner since the late 1940s.

Although much of the rest of the seven-mile-long barrier island has been given over to public beaches and nature areas, there are now four golf courses, nine hotels, 18 restaurants and hundreds of ranch houses, built on leased land, mainly in the two decades after the state bought Jekyll Island for $695,000. Oceanfront houses with swimming pools rent for as much as $4,600 a week in season — March until mid-August — while a one-bedroom bungalow three blocks from the water goes for $440 a week. Houses there sell for $400,000 to $1.6 million, but you only buy the structure. Leases for the land on Jekyll all run out on Dec. 31, 2049.

That said, it might be just as much fun to fly down, rent a room at the Jekyll Island Club with two double beds and a charming big porch with two wicker armchairs ($159 during the week in the off-season), and watch fathers play croquet with their children on the front lawn.

In Bar Harbor, Me., the first group of tourists arrived in the mid-19th century. They came for the scenery: the village lies at the foot of Cadillac Mountain, the highest hill along the Eastern seaboard of the United States. The artist Thomas Cole visited here in the mid-19th century, and the artist Frederic Edwin Church followed. The wilderness here was nicknamed “Eden” — and there is still an Eden Street.

Those first, more humble sightseers were followed by the plutocrats, always seeking another “retreat” where they could build enormous houses and entertain in grand style. George W. Vanderbilt, who spent much of the rest of the year at Biltmore, his barony in the North Carolina Piedmont; Edith Wharton’s brother Frederic R. Jones; and Johnston Livingston, a founder of Wells Fargo & Company, all built cottages here.

BUT Bar Harbor — unlike Newport, R.I., perhaps the greatest resort of the super-rich — started out as a hotel town, where even the wealthiest took suites at the huge hotels.

Yet before long, the rich started to build their own houses, including Wingwood House, presided over by Mrs. E. T. Stotesbury. That lady once organized a half-million-dollar alligator safari to provide the leather for a set of luggage, and trumpeted her gold bathroom fixtures as an economy, because they didn’t need polishing.

Many of those big houses — 58 in all, including Wingwood — were torn down or burned in the 1947 fire that wiped out about a third of the downtown; the old-money folk who still summer in this part of Maine (like David Rockefeller) choose either nearby Northeast Harbor or Seal Harbor.

Yet Bar Harbor still manages to keep much of its character, with streets that slant down to the water, spotted with the big houses that remain. One is currently for sale for $1.1 million. This huge shingled “cottage” stands right across from a fine gray waterfront mansion that blocks any significant water view but is surrounded by a huge lawn and is well set back from the busy street.

Horse-drawn carriages have been replaced by giant cruise boats and tour buses, which arrive even in the off-season. Besides the nature walks in Acadia National Park, another local treat is the shopping inside historic storefronts. Shops sell handmade jewelry, antique sailboat models and brass binnacles, elegant linen-upholstered club chairs and batik napkins.

Although many of the bed-and-breakfasts and a handful of restaurants close at the end of October, some stay open longer; a handful, all year long.

In Bar Harbor, Sharon Risley, who owns the Black Friar Inn with her husband, Perry, worries about the kind of tourism that is on the increase: cruise boats and tour buses, which she says clog streets without giving enough back in taxes. At the same time, she laments a decrease in traditional tourists: families that arrive in bulging station wagons and stay in places like hers.

If Bar Harbor doesn’t have quite as many tourists as it did a decade ago, Long Branch, N.J., undoubtedly has more, considering where it was a few years ago.

In the decades between the mid-19th century and World War I, Long Branch — now little more than an hour’s drive from New York City — was indisputably one of America’s most popular resorts, attracting several of the country’s biggest money men. Jay Gould, the stock manipulator and railroad financier, built four cottages; George F. Baker, longtime head of what is today Citibank, built two.

Yet it appealed to theater people as well: Edwin Booth vacationed there, and Oliver Dowd Byron, another famous actor, built 14 cottages. There was horse racing and gambling, along with the bathing and boardwalk scene.

THE resort was famous, not only because President James A. Garfield was taken there after an assassination attempt to recuperate — but instead died — but also because President Ulysses S. Grant was given a cottage by the town fathers. (It was where the hard-drinking Grant was heard to remark, “I’d rather fight another battle than stand for another dance.”)

But Long Branch became passé. With the advent of the Garden State Parkway in the late 1940s, motorists stepped on the gas and roared south, to Avalon and Ocean City.

“The early ’90s were the nadir,” said Howard H. Woolley Jr., the city’s business administrator. Interviewed in his office, Mr. Woolley brandished a scrapbook of pictures from that decade, showing a row of dilapidated buildings along the ocean drive — buildings later condemned and torn down, now replaced by a complex of condominium buildings in a vaguely Victorian design.

A few blocks to the south, he explained, the remnants of a once-grand boardwalk had turned into a mass of “honkytonk” games and rides that attracted what one resident — sunning herself later in the day on the city’s new boardwalk — called “the wrong element.”

The decay is gone now — $1 billion later — and the oceanfront at Long Branch is now spotless.

The change didn’t happen overnight: the old pier burned down in the late ’80s. In 2002, the mayor and the City Council united to rebuild the pier; 2003 brought the condominiums and 320 rental units. The money came from a laundry list of state and federal agencies; when gambling was legalized in New Jersey, some revenues went into a statewide reinvestment fund. Long Branch was one of the first to apply.

Now, the managers of these apartments say they are completely rented or sold, for rents of $1,495 to almost $3,000 a month and prices as high as $2 million.

And the town fathers are not done yet. Another huge redevelopment, of the Broadway retail section, is planned next — the city is negotiating with finalists, who began to submit proposals two years ago. The Ocean Place Resort & Spa, which now only has 250 rooms, will be also rebuilt. There are even more plans: to rebuild the pier for a commuter ferry to North Jersey, and maybe even to Wall Street. Mr. Woolley said the city was talking with two ferry companies.

Is the Gilded Age returning to Long Branch? Mr. Woolley laughed. “It’s certainly well on its way,” he replied.

TO get to Jekyll Island, Ga., fly to Jacksonville, Fla., rent a car and drive a little over an hour north. In the Gilded Age, visitors were strictly by invitation; most arrived by steam yacht. Now, there’s a causeway. The state levies a $3 daily parking fee at the edge of the island, but that’s the last of such fees. All the public parks, beaches and fishing piers are free.

The best hotel is the Jekyll Island Club (800-535-9547; www.jekyllclub.com), once a private bastion, now open to all — if you have $159 for a large room with porch on a weeknight in the off-season. Tourist information can be found at www .jekyllisland.com.

As for Bar Harbor, Me., many people on the East Coast prefer to drive so they can cruise around and see the scenery, although it is almost a nine-hour trip from Manhattan. If you aren’t staying long, fly to Bangor and rent a car; it’s about an hour’s drive from the airport. We stayed in a wood-paneled suite at the Black Friar Inn (207-288-5091; www.blackfriarinn.com), a big Victorian cottage a few blocks from the center of town. In October, that cost $160 a night.

In Long Branch, N.J., little more than an hour from Manhattan in light traffic, the Cedars and Beeches is a green and white 1890 mansion, with 14 rooms. Rates in the off-season start at $100 a night. (732-571-6777; www.cedarsandbeeches.com).
684 2006-11-24 “For Faust, the lure of Mephistopheles’s services is greatly enhanced by the fact that the price, albeit a terrible one, is to be paid later,” he said. “For politicians, the lure of the support obtained through public expenditures is similarly enhanced by the fact that public debt will be paid — or reneged — by next generations, often well after the end of one’s political career.”

Finance ministers simply do not mention, even in passing, that governments can renege on debt. Nor do they, as he did, submit a budget that the government contends will reduce growth in gross domestic product — in his case, to 1.3 percent next year from the 1.6 percent otherwise expected.

He insists the country will benefit later, and even argues that there will be a political benefit: “People in Italy know an adjustment is needed. They may have more respect for a government that tries.”

And, he argues, they understand that “the economic balance was dedicated for too long to the stimulus of demand” rather than to promoting long-term growth.

Mr. Padoa-Schioppa seems to be taking on this job with a combination of zeal and academic detachment that shows in his discussion of the differences between “the tidy, clear-cut, well-disciplined world of monetary control” and the “much more complex, often confused, uncertain, even treacherous one of public expenditure control.”

He thinks monetary policy is easier, in large part because it is impersonal: the central bank deals with the market, not with anyone who is directly hurt by a decision. But a finance minister is telling an interest group or other ministers that they cannot have the money they want.

“These days, I tend to recall and repeat all too often that saying ‘no’ to someone means to say ‘yes’ to someone else,” he said in his lecture at the German central bank. “In our aging Europe, saying a marginal ‘no’ to pension beneficiaries today means saying ‘yes’ to their grandchildren.”

Of course, the grandchildren do not vote, at least not now.

Italy faces huge problems. It is a country with low growth, high government debt, a rapidly aging population and a coalition government united less by any vision or policy than by opposition to the previous government, which was led by Silvio Berlusconi. It needs to become more competitive against other European countries, but with the euro in place it can no longer devalue its currency as it used to do when crises arrived.

Mr. Padoa-Schioppa tries to make all that sound like a virtue. The narrow governing margin, he said, helped make the cabinet take tough choices, since all knew that any defections would be likely to cause the government to fall. “What made it easy,” he said about getting cabinet approval for the budget, “was that it was impossible.”

Many a finance minister has come to office vowing reform, and ended up doing what was necessary to get by, which is one reason that few finance ministers manage to do what Robert E. Rubin, the former United States Treasury secretary, did — enter office with an excellent reputation and leave with a better one. Mr. Padoa-Schioppa may not pull that off, but if he fails, it is unlikely to be for the normal reason of excessive deficit spending.

As he told the Bundesbank audience, “having inherited a public debt larger than G.D.P., and having committed myself and my government to comply with sound fiscal principles, I scarcely can afford even to contemplate the possibility of accepting Mephistopheles’s services.”
685 2006-11-24 About half of all Bernese mountain dogs are prone to an unusual blood cancer called malignant histiocytosis. Boxers are four times more likely to get lymphomas than dogs in general, while Pomeranians are 10 times less likely. Cocker spaniels are more likely to get B cell lymphomas, and huskies are more susceptible to T cell lymphomas.

Such differences among breeds provide evidence that the risk of getting cancer is at least partly inherited. And they suggest that dogs could be useful in the search for genes that cause cancer, with the findings probably applicable to people, as well.

“The role of heritability is easier to track in dogs than in people,” said Jaime F. Modiano, a veterinarian and immunologist at the University of Colorado, who said it had been difficult to find many cancer-risk genes in people.

Dogs are ideal for such studies because there is relative genetic homogeneity in a breed. And it is possible to have five or six generations of dogs alive at the same time, providing ample genealogical information.

Dr. Modiano is one of about 15 academic and government scientists who are forming the Canine Comparative Oncology and Genomics Consortium, a nonprofit group, to look for cancer genes in dogs. The group is separate from the National Cancer Institute’s recently formed team of veterinary hospitals to test cancer drugs in dogs, although the two groups have members in common.
686 2006-11-24 To the Editor: Your gushy article about the rapidly gentrifying “resort” town of Tofino, British Columbia (“A Canadian Resort Goes Hollywood,” Nov. 10) barely makes mention of the close proximity of Tofino, and its slightly more downscale neighbor Ucluelet, to the magnificent Pacific Rim National Park Reserve.

It is tragic that no level of government and no environmental organizations have called for a halt to the unchecked development that now encroaches upon the borders of the no-longer-wild park. The threat that nearby development represents to the integrity of our national parks and preserves has generated concern and opposition many times in recent years throughout Canada and the United States, but as yet no one has spoken up for the fragile Pacific Rim park and its surrounding area. It is a pity your article did not raise these important questions. 

Gordon M. Watson

Vancouver, British Columbia
687 2006-11-24 To the Editor:     Re ''Our Great Depression'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 17):...
688 2006-11-24 To the Editor: Your gushy article about the rapidly gentrifying ''resort'' town of Tofino, British Columbia (''A Canadian Resort Goes Hollywood,'' Nov. 10) barely makes mention of the close proximity of Tofino, and its slightly more downscale neig...
689 2006-11-24 MARKETING CYBER MONDAY -- More consumers visited online retail sites on Cyber Monday -- the Monday after Thanksgiving -- than on any other day during the last holiday season, according to Nielsen/NetRatings. But most were not ready to buy. And ret...
690 2006-11-24 Nyehaus  15 Gramercy Park South, Manhattan  Through Dec. 30       Art for Paul McCarthy, an influential Los Angeles artist, isn't a vehicle for cultural refinement or moral uplift. It is used instead to mine the baser human impulses: the abject, u...
691 2006-11-25 The New York University men’s soccer team, playing in its first N.C.A.A. Final Four, was eliminated last night, 3-0, by Messiah College at the Disney Wide World of Sports Complex in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.

The Violets (15-4-4) fell behind late in the first half when Dan Visser scored an unassisted goal at 32 minutes 33 seconds for Messiah (20-1-2), the two-time defending Division III champion.

Four minutes earlier, N.Y.U.’s Nick Katsanos had received his second yellow card and was ejected, leaving the Violets short-handed.

The Falcons also had second-half goals by Eric Frey, at 51:34, and Dan Wagner, with 1:27 remaining. They outshot N.Y.U., 10-0, in the first half and 15-0 for the game.

“This season was bigger than all of us,” said Nicholas Palmer, an N.Y.U. junior captain.

“It was for our program, for all of our fans and former players who never made it here.”

Messiah, of Grantham, Pa., will try for its third consecutive national championship tonight against Wheaton of Illinois (16-7-4), which defeated Ohio Wesleyan (15-1-6), 1-0, in the other semifinal.
692 2006-11-25 Dozens of trained searchers were taking to the woods, lakes and the air to look for two brothers who disappeared from an American Indian reservation. The F.B.I. offered a $20,000 reward for information leading to the recovery of the boys, Tristan A. White, 4, top left, and Avery L. Stately, 2. They were reported missing Wednesday from the Walking Shield area of the remote, heavily wooded Red Lake Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said. Their parents said the boys had been playing outside their home before they disappeared, the tribal chairman, Floyd Jourdain Jr., said. The boys’ mother, Alicia White, being embraced in picture on the right above, made a plea for information in the case.
693 2006-11-25 Missouri State’s Blake Ahearn said he was not all that worried about facing No. 7 Wisconsin.

He played like it, too, scoring 25 points as the Bears shocked Wisconsin, 66-64, yesterday in the semifinals of the South Padre Island Invitational in Texas.

“We can’t worry about who’s on the front of that jersey over there,” Ahearn said. “We’re a bunch guys from Springfield, Mo., just coming out trying to play hard and play together.”

The Bears (4-0) led by as many as 19 in the first half, but they had to come back after Wisconsin (4-1) rallied to take a 62-57 lead.

Missouri State faces Oklahoma State, which defeated Auburn, 66-65, in the other semifinal, in the title game today.

FLORIDA 101, W. KENTUCKY 68 Corey Brewer had 20 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists to lead No. 1 Florida to its 17th consecutive victory.
694 2006-11-25 Visitors to New York inevitably discover — often to their great distress — that finding a public toilet is like getting a same-day table at Per Se. So it seems perfectly natural that the biggest new attraction in Times Square is a kind of Disneyland of restrooms, where in return for being a bit player in an extravagant salute to a toilet paper brand, visitors can find comfort in real, individual bathrooms that are spanking clean and gosh-darn cheery.

A huge blue and white billboard heralds the restrooms at 46th Street and Seventh Avenue and the sponsor, Charmin tissue. Perky Charmin greeters also venture into the surrounding area to find people in need. No opportunity for branding the good deed is missed. An escalator rises past Charmin ads, with accompanying jingle. All this, from a company whose television commercials used to whisper the words “toilet paper.”

Tourists, some of them understandably in a hurry, may find it disconcerting to be stopped, on the way to the toilet, by a greeter saying: “Hi! Welcome! Where are you from?” while uniformed attendants dancing to the Charmin jingle occasionally do a playful bump with people in line.

Afterward, a fireplace and couches in the waiting area encourage people to linger, and they do, taking photos, pulling out cellphones, making themselves at home. All might be expected to take home tales of the great accommodations in Times Square, setting up false expectations for next summer’s squad of tourists since the company is closing the restrooms on Dec. 31.

The Charmin operation was welcomed by Mayor Michael Bloomberg with a note of envy in his voice. The city has been struggling to create its own system of public toilets since what feels like the beginning of time. More than a year ago, the Bloomberg administration finally sealed a deal to install the first 20. Latest word is that relief is still months away.
695 2006-11-25 Saddler did not let his often-brutal rivalry with Pep stand in the way of admiration for him. He once told the sportswriter Stanley Frank how in Pep’s nontitle rematch with Wright, “Chalky cocked his right to throw a bomb, and Pep ducked through his legs and got away.”

Pep, usually fighting at about 125 pounds, was so quick, so hard to hit, that he once won a round in which he deliberately did not land a single punch to see if he could impress the judges solely with his ring smarts. It happened on July 25, 1946, in Minneapolis, in the third round of a nontitle bout against Jackie Graves that Pep won by knockout in the eighth.

“I jabbed him a few times, but most of the round, I was bobbing and weaving and making him miss, and he missed a hundred punches, I guess, making him look so bad they gave me the round,” Pep told Peter Heller in an interview for “In This Corner.”

Pep was born Guglielmo Papaleo on Sept. 19, 1922, in Middletown, Conn., near Hartford. After boxing as an amateur for two and a half years, Pep turned pro in July 1940.

He became the featherweight champion with a 15-round unanimous decision against Wright at Madison Square Garden on Nov. 20, 1942, his 54th victory without a defeat. He remained unbeaten until losing a decision to Sammy Angott, the former lightweight titleholder, on March 19, 1943, in a nontitle fight, his 64th bout.

Pep served in the Navy and the Army during World War II.

In January 1947, he sustained a broken leg, cracked vertebrae and a chest injury in the crash of a chartered plane near Bridgeton, N.J., during a snowstorm. But he returned to the ring five months later.

Pep had been the featherweight champion for nearly six years when he faced Saddler for the first time, on Oct. 29, 1948, at the Garden. At 5 feet 5 inches, Pep gave away three inches to Saddler, who was a strong puncher, and Pep appeared tentative, showing little of the customary spring in his legs. Saddler floored Pep twice in the third round, then knocked him out in the fourth with a left hook to the jaw. It was the second defeat for Pep, who had won 134 bouts, losing only to Angott and fighting a draw with Jimmy McAllister.

Pep regained the title in a unanimous decision at the Garden on Feb. 11, 1949, in what James Dawson of The New York Times called “15 rounds of savage fighting.” Pep threw 37 successive jabs in the first round. But he was cut around his eyes as the fight progressed and was almost felled by Saddler in the 10th and 14th rounds before rallying in the 15th.

In their third bout, before a crowd of nearly 39,000 at Yankee Stadium on Sept. 8, 1950, Saddler knocked Pep down in the third round. But Pep was winning on the officials’ cards when he dislocated his left shoulder in the seventh round during a clinch. He did not come out for the next round, giving Saddler the championship once more.

The fourth bout, at the Polo Grounds on Sept. 26, 1951, was one of the dirtiest in memory. Pep and Saddler virtually wrestled with each other at times, and at one point the referee, Ray Miller, was sent tumbling to the canvas. The fight was essentially even when Pep quit after the ninth round, citing a closed right eye that had been bloodied. The New York State Athletic Commission revoked Pep’s license for 17 months and suspended Saddler for two months because of their fouling.

Pep never fought for a championship again. He retired in 1959, then tried a comeback in 1965 at age 42. His last bout was a six-round decision he lost to Calvin Woodland on March 16, 1966, in Richmond, Va.

Pep later worked as a referee and a boxing official for the state of Connecticut, and he was a deputy sheriff in the Hartford area.

His survivors included his wife Barbara; two daughters, Mary and Melissa; and two sons, William and Michael.

By the mid-1950s, Pep was essentially fighting for paydays, his best years behind him, but he continued to show flashes of greatness.

Red Smith, the sports columnist of The Times, told of the day in 1956 when he saw Pep “boxing one Kid Campeche in a Tampa armory, probably a $300 fight for the old champion.”

“Willie pitched a 10-round no-hitter, sticking and moving, spinning, ducking, smothering every earnest, floundering attack,” Smith wrote. “The few hundred in the hall reveled in the perfection of the performance. Willie left Campeche unhurt but frustrated almost to the point of tears.

“ ‘It’s like trying to stamp out a grass fire!’ the Kid said.”
696 2006-11-25 In the third quarter of this year, the number of city residents who had missed more than three months of mortgage payments jumped by 20 percent compared with the same quarter a year ago. Still, New Yorkers often have more time to try to hold onto their homes than homeowners in the rest of the country.

Data collected by PropertyShark .com, a real estate data company based in Brooklyn, shows that 1,468 city homeowners missed mortgage payments from July to September, compared with 1,220 in the comparable period last year. That puts them in what is commonly known as preforeclosure, when banks typically warn people that they are at risk of foreclosure so the homeowner will take steps to catch up on the payments. But while more homeowners are in the danger zone, more have also been able to avoid foreclosure. In New York City, lenders foreclosed on 425 homes in the third quarter of 2006, compared with 545 in the year-ago period. (The city has 3,018,000 homeowners.)

John McIlwain, a senior fellow for housing at the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit planning and research group in Washington, said of the jump in preforeclosures, “It’s a warning sign, but it’s not yet a serious problem in terms of the market.”

The neighborhoods with the highest number of preforeclosures are in Brooklyn and Queens. The Canarsie and Flatbush neighborhoods of Brooklyn had the largest number last quarter, with 37. Elsewhere in Brooklyn, Bedford-Stuyvesant had 32 preforeclosures and East New York had 31. Jamaica, Queens, had 31 preforeclosures. The same neighborhoods had the most preforeclosures the year before.

State laws give New Yorkers an advantage over homeowners elsewhere. According to PropertyShark’s chief executive, Ryan Slack, New York courts typically consider the buyer of the property to be the owner, while California treats the bank that holds that mortgage as the owner.
697 2006-11-25 JERUSALEM, Nov. 24 — After another surge of violence in and around the Gaza Strip over the past month, Israel and the Palestinians moved gingerly on Friday toward reinstating an often-broken cease-fire between them.

In Gaza, Prime Minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas confirmed that the Palestinian factions — including Islamic Jihad, which had previously rejected any cease-fire with Israel — would halt their rocket fire if Israel halted its military operations in both the West Bank and Gaza.

Israel called the offer a media presentation, but said it was open to a more serious, formal proposal. “It’s not a question of, ‘You go first,’ ” said Miri Eisin, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. “It’s a question of, ‘What are we talking about?’ ” A halt to all Israeli military operations in return for a halt to rocket fire alone would be unacceptable, she said.

On Thursday night in Gaza, the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, said that since the summer, Palestinians have been “victims of a barbaric Israeli offensive that has left more than 400 dead and 1,500 wounded while thousands of homes have been destroyed.” But he added, “All that on the pretext of homemade rocket fire, and unfortunately we are giving them such a pretext.”

In fact, Israel re-entered Gaza in late June in response to the capture of a soldier, Cpl. Gilad Shalit, by a group of Palestinian militants that included Hamas. Hamas said that they were responding to Israeli shelling that had killed civilians; Israel said the shelling was in response to Palestinian rocket fire. Since Israel pulled its settlers and troops out of Gaza in September 2005, at least 1,100 rockets have been fired from Gaza, and four Israelis have died — two of them in the past 10 days.

Mr. Abbas, aided by Egypt, is negotiating with Hamas over a national-unity government that could meet the conditions for ending an international freeze on direct budget aid, as well as Israel’s withholding of tax and duties collected on behalf of the Palestinians. The government is also held up by disagreements over the release of Corporal Shalit and different demands about the number of Palestinian prisoners to be exchanged for him. Israel wants the corporal back before releasing prisoners. These issues are holding back the prospect of a meeting between Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas.

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to make an unannounced visit here to see both men next week. The United States is eager to break the bloody stalemate and at least have Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas talking again.
698 2006-11-25 IT seems that the only thing that hedge funds do not invest in is lawsuits. And that may change.

This year, Australia’s highest court “gave its blessing to litigation funding companies, which contract with potential litigants to fund and manage cases in exchange for a share of the recovery,” Joshua Lipton writes in Litigation 2006, a supplement to The American Lawyer and Corporate Counsel.

That ruling has attracted the interest of United States hedge funds: unregulated investment partnerships comprising wealthy individuals and institutions looking for big returns. The funds, Mr. Lipton reports, have called the litigation funding companies to discuss investing in future lawsuits.

Such companies typically pay the cost of litigation, including lawyers’ fees, in exchange for a percentage of the recovery, usually one-third to two-thirds, Mr. Lipton writes, adding that in the past, hedge funds have backed litigation finance companies that lend to plaintiffs’ lawyers.

Direct investment in the lawsuits themselves would seem to be the next logical step.

Defendants facing lawsuits financed by litigation funding companies often argue that the firms cause excessive litigation and elevated damages.

PSSSSST When you think of bank secrecy, Switzerland comes to mind, and maybe the Cayman Islands as well. But Colorado?
699 2006-11-25 In Great Neck, where the school district encompasses nine villages as well as a large unincorporated part of the Town of North Hempstead, the median property tax bill was $9,606. The median sale price of a single-family home sold in 2005 was about the same as Pelham’s: $890,000.

In Glen Ridge, an Essex County town known for its good schools and high taxes, the median property tax bill was $11,306. For single-family homes sold in 2005, the median sale price was $562,000.

Of course, there are obvious reasons property tax bills vary. Wide differences in taxable commercial property, teachers’ salaries and state aid, along with persistent segregation of wealth and poverty and varying concentrations of school-age children, all contribute to the inequities.

“There’s not one property tax problem, there are multiple property tax problems — and some people with no property tax problems,” said James W. Hughes, dean of Rutgers University’s Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy.

Based on 2005 census data, New Jersey has the highest median property tax bill in the country, followed by New Hampshire, Connecticut and New York. But a look at the national rankings by county shows that Westchester tops the list, followed by Nassau on Long Island, and then Hunterdon, Bergen and Essex in New Jersey.

Earlier this month in New Jersey, four legislative committees made 98 recommendations to reduce property taxes, including a 20 percent tax credit that would do little to address the concerns about inequities in property tax rates in different communities. The latest plan would offer tax credits to homeowners based on their income, but it would not be distributed based on their current property tax rates.

Gov. Jon S. Corzine and other state leaders are also pushing municipalities to consolidate services and change state education aid formulas, ideas that could scramble the lists of winners and losers. “That’s why property taxes have been Problem One for decades,” Dr. Hughes said. “There’s no painless, easy solution.”

In New York, Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer said during his campaign that he favored expanding state property tax rebates, including an 80 percent jump for homeowners at or below the median income. And in Connecticut, although Gov. M. Jodi Rell’s opponent in this fall’s election tried to make residential property taxes an issue, she is focused on another tax cut. Ms. Rell wants to eliminate the personal property tax on large ticket items, like autos.

Across the region, the median tax on a single-family home in 2005 was about 1.5 percent of the home’s market value, according to the analysis, which used data from all three states on real estate sales, along with tax rates, to yield a snapshot of taxes. The Times analysis calculated the median property tax bills in municipalities in New Jersey and Connecticut and in school districts in New York. The calculations were based on the assessed value of thousands of single-family homes sold in 2005.

The median tax rate for the region was well above the national average, which is under 1 percent, according to census figures. For a home worth $500,000, the regional average is $7,500 and the national average is less than $5,000.

By that calculus, Pelham and Glen Ridge have high tax rates — more than 2 percent of a home’s value — while Fairfield and Great Neck have low tax rates — about 1 percent, the national average.

Homeowners in low-income municipalities and school districts regionwide are generally heavily taxed. Although state education dollars are usually poured into these communities, the tax burden is crushing on homeowners in places like Trenton and Camden, N.J.; Waterbury, Conn.; and Hempstead and Central Islip, on Long Island. Homes in all of those communities have modest values. In Woodlynne, near Camden, where the median price for homes sold in 2005 was $79,000, the median tax bill was $2,440, a rate of 3 percent.

In Pelham, officials blamed their tax bills on their relative lack of commercial development. “Bronxville has a downtown, so does Larchmont,” said Lorri S. Gorman, the mayor of Pelham Manor, one of two villages that make up the town. “We have two strip malls with a computer shop, a hair salon, a Japanese restaurant and a CVS.”

Many school districts and municipalities in the region share the problem. Statewide in New York, more than 40 percent of the tax base is commercial, but in the suburbs it is only about 25 percent on average, and it varies considerably, from a low of 6 percent to a high of 60 percent.

Even so, Pelham, which has a tax base that is 20 percent commercial property and a median property tax bill of $17,875, is better off than some other nearby communities. Scarsdale, where the median tax bill of $20,282 is the highest in the region, has a tax base that is just 6 percent commercial.

In Great Neck, where more than 40 percent of the property is commercial, the median property tax bill is $9,606. And White Plains, which has a large downtown shopping district in Westchester, and Carle Place, with acres of retail development north of the Roosevelt Field shopping mall on Long Island, have tax bases that are at least 60 percent commercial. Their median tax bills were $7,500 and $6,000, respectively.

“Some towns are winners because their geographic location gives them the lucrative ratables,” Dr. Hughes said, referring to taxable commercial properties. “But then other municipalities close by get the housing growth. It argues for some form of regionalization and tax sharing, but that’s impossible. The towns that don’t have ratables would improve their situation. But those that do have them would lose, and they will fight that to the death.”

In Glen Ridge, residents insist their problem is something else entirely.

“Our problems lie with how the state funds education,” said Jackie Yustein, who has lived in Glen Ridge for 30 years but says she does not know how much longer she can remain.

“Our taxes are pushing $25,000,” said Ms. Yustein, the director of community health services for Essex County. “We love our home, we love our community. But we feel like we’re being pushed out.”

Carl Bergmanson, the mayor, agreed: “Ratables wouldn’t help us that much, and they aren’t the reason our taxes are high. The reason is simple: 4 percent state aid.”

In Newark, 84 percent of school spending comes from state aid, compared with 4 percent in Glen Ridge. And Newark’s property tax rate — a median property tax bill of $3,300 on a home worth $262,000, or about 1.2 percent — is below the norm for the region, much lower than Glen Ridge’s.

Although it can be hard to pin down, the variation in taxes also has something to do with the willingness and ability of a community to tax itself, especially for its schools.

“More stock than ever is put in education, and on the perceived value of schools in justifying high home prices,” said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative fiscal policy research group. “Without even being able to articulate it, suburban home buyers understand this is part of the price they are paying for a house — so, in a perverse way, high school taxes are linked to high home values.”

In Pelham, taxpayers complain about the taxes, but they don’t do much about them: The last time voters defeated a school budget was in 1990.

“It’s important to us to keep a high level of educational commitment,” said John Brice, the board president in the Pelham Union Free School District. He said the district had kept costs down — per-pupil spending was 38th out of 40 districts in Westchester County in 2004.

But even at that rate, Pelham’s spending is high compared with the rest of the region, and that is another variable that drives widely divergent property taxes.

School spending per pupil varies from $8,000 to more than $25,000 in districts across the region. The national average was $8,600 per pupil in 2003, according to the most recent data available from the National Center for Education Statistics.

New York’s school spending tends to be higher than that in other states. Pelham’s per-pupil school spending amounted to $14,203 in 2005, and in Great Neck it was $20,669, compared with $12,552 in Fairfield and $11,123 in Glen Ridge, according to the statistics center.

Part of the reason is that teachers cost a lot more in New York than they do in New Jersey and Connecticut. School districts in New York must pay the cost of teacher pensions, a responsibility that grew substantially in the years after poor stock market returns in 2000 and 2001. In New Jersey and Connecticut, the state pays for teachers’ pensions.

Teachers also make substantially more money in New York suburbs than they do in New Jersey or Connecticut. In Fairfield, the average salary for a teacher was $64,760 in 2005; in Glen Ridge, it was $54,608. But on average, teachers made $70,993 in Pelham and $80,276 in Great Neck.

School expenses are not the only costs that vary, however. Balkanized government also helps explain higher tax bills in some places, with layers of expensive local government adding to the cost.

The tax rates for county and municipal government range from a few hundred to several thousand dollars per home. New Jersey’s cities, with high infrastructure costs for streets and the police, tend to tax homeowners the most per dollar of home value, but many of the region’s small municipalities also have high costs. With towns, counties, villages and fire districts all levying separate taxes in some places, the numbers add up.

Fairfield’s municipal costs are low, less than one-half of 1 percent of home value. Officials there said part of the savings came from the abolition of county government in Connecticut.

“There’s virtually no remainder of county government, and so no cost,” said Paul H. Hiller, the chief financial officer for Fairfield. “There’s a lot of duplication in Westchester, with village and town and county layers, and you’ve built in some redundancy. If you did a management study for local government like they do in business school, you’d never split things up like this.”
700 2006-11-25 “This separation of an economic sphere,” he wrote, “with its presumed specific principles of organization, from the much messier, less determinate and morally more problematic issues of politics, social conflict and values, is the foundation of political economy and economics as an intellectual discipline.”

Professor Foley’s book is simultaneously an introduction to economic theory and a critique of it.

It is his version, as mentioned on his opening page, of the classic introduction for the economically challenged by Robert L. Heilbroner, “The Worldly Philosophers,” now in its seventh edition. “Adam’s Fallacy” concentrates more on the worldly philosophies rather than philosophers, on economic theory rather than on characters and events.

How “Adam’s Fallacy” will serve as an introductory text is for others to decide. What is pertinent here is the author’s contention that economists, all along, have been writing theology.

He does not use the word “theology” with disdain, as many writers do when they want to disparage something as doctrinaire or irrational, although he has clearly chosen the word to provoke those who assume that economics is either strictly logical or empirical. On the other hand, he doesn’t use it to signal anything about God, either.

What he means, he wrote, is that “at its most abstract and interesting level, economics is a speculative philosophical discourse, not a deductive or inductive science.”

Historically, economics has not only shed light on how a capitalist market system works, it has also suggested what attitudes people should take about those workings and about the moral conflicts accompanying them.

“These are discussions, above all, of faith and belief, not of fact, and hence theological,” Professor Foley wrote.

“Economics functions in a theological role in our society,” he added in an interview in which he paraphrased Milton, “to justify the ways of the market to men.” Economists, moreover, are “becoming priestly figures, with arcane knowledge” and special powers, he said.

Economic laws are cast as universal and invariable. They are even presented as natural laws akin to those of mathematical physics or evolutionary biology.

From the bedrock belief that the pursuit of private self-interest will ultimately benefit the whole society stems a willingness to abide harsh economic measures and consequences, ranging from large-scale unemployment to the destruction of traditional cultures.

The danger of these “illusory comforts of Adam’s Fallacy,” Professor Foley writes, is that they obscure hard truths. Contemporary capitalism, in his view, is a successful, resilient and adaptive system for creating material wealth. But it is not a stable, self-regulating one. Left to its own devices, for example, it will not “solve the problems of poverty and inequality."

By questioning an economic sphere of life ruled by its own laws and expertise, Professor Foley is implicitly proposing limits to the secularization that is an underlying characteristic of modernity. Secularization has meant that in a cultural transformation, major areas of human activity set themselves up as quasi-autonomous, with their own standards, authorities and guiding principles.

Economics, like science and politics, and then law, the arts and other fields, declared independence from rule by religion, custom, intuition or “speculative philosophical discourse,” he wrote.

The new independence or autonomy has never been recognized as total, however, at least not in matters directly touching upon human life. The claims of each sector’s ruling experts that each operates by its own laws and standards have always been challenged by competing claims from pundits, parsons, popes, politicians and secular moralists. Theology, in the broad sense Professor Foley gives it, is inescapable.

The next question, of course, is how to relate what Professor Foley recognizes as the rich resource of economic theory — as value-laden as it may unavoidably be — to the other sources of morality, whether religious or secular.

Some people argue that economics should employ its own allegedly value-free techniques to produce a menu of options, each with specified costs and benefits, that it submits to the rest of society for moral judgment.

Others argue that the relationship is invariably more dialectical. Other sources of morality have something to say about the technical concepts and methods of economics, and economic theory in turn may shed light on those other sources of morality.

These matters fall outside the reach of “Adam’s Fallacy.” Professor Foley has a more modest aim.

Economists, he wrote, often speak of the need to teach people to “think like economists.” But “thinking like an economist comes hard to many people,” he added, “and I personally am grateful for that fact.”

He wrote the book, he said, “to give people more confidence in their own moral judgments” about economic issues.
701 2006-11-25 After another surge of violence in and around the Gaza Strip over the past month, Israel and the Palestinians moved gingerly on Friday toward reinstating an often-broken cease-fire between them.     In Gaza, Prime Minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas c...
702 2006-11-25 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard...
703 2006-11-26 In the Indonesian cases, the authors, from Indonesia, the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, concluded that human-to-human transmission had probably taken place in two of the three family clusters. In one case, a 38-year-old government auditor appeared to have caught the flu from his 8-year-old daughter or her 1-year-old sister. All three died; his wife and two sons did not get sick. No one in the family had any known contact with poultry, wild birds, animals or sick people, so the source was a mystery.

“But you can’t always tell what a young child has done,” said Dr. Tim Uyeki, a Centers for Disease Control flu specialist and an author of the study. “There’s no magical test, and you don’t always get a perfect explanation.”

The Dogubayazit cluster was a cause célèbre for some Internet flu-watchers following Turkish news reports in January. They contended that widespread human-to-human transmission seemed to be taking place, and that it may have begun at a banquet attended in late December by members of two related families named Ozcan and Kocyigit. The Turkish government and the World Health Organization did not link the cases or families and tentatively blamed birds for all transmission.

The studies showed how wide a net was cast: 290 people were tested at one hospital because they either had flu symptoms or contact with dying birds, or both. All were given the antiviral drug oseltamivir, which is also sold as Tamiflu, and about half were hospitalized. That accorded with health organization recommendations: widespread testing and use of antivirals, both to save lives and to snuff out any suspected outbreak of a mutant strain.

Only 10 came up positive on PCR tests, and 8 of those were confirmed by a World Health Organization laboratory. All were children; four died. The studies confirmed suspicions that the families were linked; 7 of the 8 children were related or lived near each other. The December banquet was not mentioned.

It was impossible to tell whether the other argument made by the Internet flu-watchers was correct: that poor testing and the oseltamivir had disguised the extent of the outbreak. But the lead author, Dr. Ahmet Faik Oner, a professor of medicine at Yuzuncu Yil University in Turkey, said in a telephone interview that he believed that there had been no human-to-human transmission because all the children had been in close contact with poultry within seven or fewer days before they fell ill and none of their parents or the hospital staff members that treated them had become sick.

Dr. Uyeki declined to comment on the Turkey outbreak, but said both studies lent support to the theory that some people were genetically more susceptible to the flu.
704 2006-11-26 In a similar spirit of public largess, the board of the New York City public library gave the library’s chief executive, Paul LeClerc, $800,000 in compensation last year, representing a 38 percent raise over his previous year’s package.

These are princely slices of pie in any economic environment. They are majestic in a time when wages and benefits for most Americans, excluding Wall Street traders, C.E.O.’s and celebrity divorce lawyers, have been going down. The Labor Department says the median hourly wage has declined 2 percent since 2003, adjusted for inflation.

So what gives — or to use a less freighted term, what seems to be happening here?

Elected officials and top administrators argue that their public jobs are demanding, full time and, while fulfilling in the broadest social sense, nowhere near as well-compensated as jobs of comparable responsibility in the private world. Speaker Christine C. Quinn said, “I have never seen a legislative body which works harder than the New York City Council.”

And if legislators have the power of their own purses, that power can cut both ways. In suburban Nassau County, one of the highest-taxed places in America, lawmakers who oversee a $2.5 billion county budget have trembled and retreated every time one of their members has proposed raising their $39,500 annual salary. As a result, lawmakers have not seen a raise in 16 years.

Public watchdog types, on the other hand, are less impressed with the they-work-hard-for-the-money argument.

“One of the things I see happening is the commercialization of public office-holding,” said Gary Ruskin, director of the Congressional Accountability Project, a Washington-based nonpartisan group. “We live in a time of hysteria about money. It’s bound to affect the way people think about public service. At a certain point, pay raises are linked to the decline of democracy. Good people don’t work just for the money. They do it for the mission of public service.”

There are of course risks involved for public officeholders that do not apply to, say, the average C.E.O. of a Standard & Poor’s 500 company who received $13.5 million in total compensation last year, representing a 16 percent raise over the year before, according to Executive Paywatch, a Web site operated by the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

“Voters don’t like it, and pay raises for elected officials have historically been a very sore spot,” said Craig Holman, a lobbyist for Public Citizen, a watchdog and consumer advocacy group. In 1816, two-thirds of the members of Congress were voted out of office after they replaced their $6 per diem pay with an annual salary of $1,500 (among other insults to the public’s sensibility during that term was the British sack of Washington).

It was perhaps that primal memory in their DNA that led the Congress to enact a law in 1989 that grants members automatic cost-of-living raises each year, Mr. Holman said. No vote is necessary. They vote only if they want to forgo the raise, which has happened five times in the last 16 years.

Automatic pay increases, meanwhile — including one accepted in June — have increased the base salary of Congress members to $168,500.

“Considering the fact that after 5 or 10 years the vast majority of congressmen will go on to make millions as lobbyists, it is unseemly that these people give themselves raises every year,” said Chris Edwards, an economist with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group based in Washington. “Maybe if they tied it to some measure of performance. In the private sector, people don’t get raises every year.”

As unappealing as self-administered pay raises like those of the city councils in New York, Boston, Los Angeles and Washington might be, public advocates agree that they are far less troubling than the automatic kind enjoyed by Congress and by a small but growing number of local legislatures, like the one in King County, Wash., which includes Seattle, where legislators who receive $110,000 annually recently adopted measures to guarantee themselves automatic 3 percent annual raises.

Apparently the “invisible hand” theory, coined by Adam Smith to describe the process whereby entrepreneurs acting in their own interest inadvertently, or invisibly, serve the common good, does not apply here.

“Transparency is very important to the process,” said Mr. Holman of Public Citizen. “The less of it there is, and the more money there is involved, the more it suggests that we are being represented by people who are not like us.”
705 2006-11-26 IF you were a cyclist traveling between northern Maine and Southern Florida, what path would you prefer through New York: close to the woods on the nearly completed Bronx River Parkway bike path, or near Long Island Sound on yet-to-be-built trails that could hug the sea?

That is the question facing cyclists, municipal planners and the organizers of the East Coast Greenway, the 2,950-mile-long trail of linked bike paths and roads that can take riders from Calais, Maine, to Key West, Fla. Planners will meet over the next few months to map out the safest and easiest path in New York.

One option would take southbound riders from Connecticut through White Plains and past Scarsdale, Yonkers and Mount Vernon along the Bronx River Parkway. The other alternative would bring riders from Connecticut on roads and proposed bike paths close to or on Route 1, through towns that include Rye, New Rochelle and Pelham Manor, then the Bronx.

Karen Votava, executive director of the East Coast Greenway Alliance, said that the alliance would initially test the routes and complete the one that was the most promising to create the spine of the greenway. She said the group hoped to make a decision in the next few months.

The recommended route will most likely include existing roads, although the goal is to get riders away from traffic and on to bike paths. So far, about 20 percent of the 15-state route is off-road.
706 2006-11-26 New Jerseyans will have to wait awhile longer before they know exactly what they would be in for under the Democratic-controlled Legislature’s property tax reform proposal. But the outlines of the plan offer some promising elements for bringing excessive public spending under control.

A document of 98 proposals released this month suggests some bold changes, including a 20 percent property tax credit for “most” homeowners and a new formula for state school aid that would be based more on the financial and educational needs of students than the wealth of the school district. Many middle-class school districts would get more state aid.

But there are major hitches in the proposal. For one, legislative leaders are vague about who “most” homeowners are or how low their annual incomes would have to be to qualify for the tax credit; last week key Democrats were talking about a sliding scale of tax credits with only homeowners with incomes of about $50,000 or less getting the full 20 percent.

There is also the vexing problem of where the money to pay the estimated $1 billion cost of the program would come from, since the state is said to confront a huge structural deficit in the years ahead. Because of this, Gov. Jon Corzine has stopped short of committing himself to any tax credit.

Finally, the specifics of the new formula for state school aid still need to be worked out. This is more than a bothersome detail.
707 2006-11-26 Annette Brewer Hamlin, 85, and Richard Henry Deming Jr., 89, were married yesterday in Maplewood, N.J. The Rev. Dr. Walter Lewis, an Episcopal priest, officiated at the home of Buena Chilstrom, the bride’s daughter, and Robert Chilstrom, the bride’s son-in-law.

Mrs. Deming is a former member of the board of the Junior League of Hartford, and in the 1930s was a model for G. Fox & Company, which was a Hartford department store. She is a daughter of the late Buena Brewer and the late Vincent Brewer, who lived in East Hartford.

Mr. Deming retired as the owner of the Accurate Threaded Products Company in Newington, Conn., which made aircraft engine parts. He graduated from Yale. He is the son of the late Mary Deming and the late Mr. Deming Sr., who lived in West Hartford.

The bride, a widow, and the bridegroom, a widower, met in 2004 when he moved into an apartment across the hall from hers at Duncaster, a retirement community in Bloomfield, Conn.
708 2006-11-26 Emily Barton and Thomas Stevens Hopkins are to be married today by Rabbi Andy Bachman at the Salmagundi Art Club, an exhibition space and school in Manhattan.

The bride and bridegroom met at Harvard, from which they graduated, she summa cum laude and he cum laude. They each received a master’s degree in creative writing, she from the University of Iowa, he from New York University.

Ms. Barton, who is 37, and is keeping her name, is a 2006 Guggenheim Fellow. She has written two novels for Farrar, Straus & Giroux: “Brookland” (2006) and “The Testament of Yves Gundron” (2000).

Her father, Jerome Douglas Barton, of New Hope, Pa., retired as the chief operating officer of the Medical Phone Company, a pharmaceutical marketing business that he founded in Blue Bell, Pa.; it became a division of Publicis Groupe, the French advertising and media services company. Her mother, the late Enid G. Barton, was a psychologist at Dover General Hospital, in Dover, N.J., where she worked with cancer patients. The bride is the stepdaughter of Millie Barton.

Mr. Hopkins, 36, is a freelance writer and Web site designer in Brooklyn. His short stories have appeared in One Story and other literary journals. He is the son of John G. Hopkins of North Andover, Mass., and the late Ann S. Hopkins. His father retired as an English teacher at the Pike School in Andover.

Ms. Barton and Mr. Hopkins met while living in the same dorm when she was a junior at Harvard and he was a sophomore.
709 2006-11-26 Melissa Grace Edelman, the daughter of Lynne and Andrew Edelman of Scarsdale, N.Y., was married last evening to Jason Lee Sorkin, a son of Joanne and Howard Sorkin of Purchase, N.Y. Rabbi Richard Jacobs officiated at the Waldorf-Astoria.

Mrs. Sorkin, 26, is an English teacher at Ardsley High School in Ardsley, N.Y. She graduated from Dartmouth and received a master’s in English education from Columbia.

Her father is the vice president of Charand Associates, a commercial real estate company in Manhattan, and is an owner of the WHB Tennis and Sport, a tennis club in Westhampton Beach, N.Y.

Mr. Sorkin, 29, is the vice president of the Sierra Assets Group, a company in White Plains that invests in and also manages commercial and residential real estate in Manhattan. His father is the president of the firm, which was founded by the bridegroom’s grandfather Harvey Sorkin, who is the chairman. The family is also a part owner in Beppe, an Italian restaurant near Gramercy Park.
710 2006-11-26 The factory runs day and night and, according to the company, supplies $5 million of brownies and cookies to wholesale customers like Ben and Jerry’s and local restaurants.

Greyston will take a chance on anyone, but employees must adhere to the company’s rules. Potential hires are put on a two-week apprentice program. If they are absent even once during that period, they’re out; if late more than once, they’re asked to leave. They are also evaluated on attitude and productivity. The pay is $6.75 an hour, raised to $7 if they make it through the program. It’s a tough-love approach that Mr. Walls called self-selection.

“We provide training, structure and encouragement,” he said. “But it’s up to the individual to decide whether they are ready to commit.”

Most are not. Of the 129 people who were chosen to participate in Greyston’s apprentice program in 2005, only 29 successfully completed the training and were hired as permanent workers. For those who succeed, Greyston is a caring employer, helping with housing, health insurance, child care and counseling services. And Mr. Walls pointed out that of his 45 workers, 40 started as open hires.

Ms. Cotter said about four out of five workers don’t last through the first year.

“I would say that most people don’t even last a month,” she said. “They may come and stay only long enough to collect their first paycheck. Many of them simply do not think beyond that first paycheck to stick around for the long run.”

Angelo R. Martinelli, chairman of the Yonkers Chamber of Commerce, said the program was “fantastic.”

“These are people that are forgotten by everyone else and they gave them an opportunity,” he said.

Mr. Emery found Greyston just in time. As part of his parole requirement, he had to find a job. If he didn’t, he would be sent back to prison. Just days away from his deadline, he received an offer from Greyston. Sixteen months later, he is still grateful.

“I know guys like me,” he said. “And I knew what was coming next.”
711 2006-11-26 Mr. Morgen, the co-director of the boxing film “On the Ropes” (1999) and the Robert Evans cine-memoir “The Kid Stays in the Picture” (2002), has been working on his latest documentary since 2001. In the process he has amassed what he says are 180 hours of 16-millimeter film, about 40 hours of video, 14,000 photographs, more than 200 hours of audio and a 23,000-page court transcript, and has come up with what may be a new kind of nonfiction film: a work of “experiential cinema,” as he chooses to call it, a third of which is animated.

Sitting on the oversized windowsill of his SoHo office, blowing smoke down at Spring Street, Mr. Morgen — whose film was only recently titled “Chicago 10” and chosen as the opening-night offering of the 2007 Sundance Film Festival — expanded on his plan to marry two eras.

“I didn’t want the film to be a valentine to the ’60s,” he said. “I didn’t want to see a bunch of old men talking about how vibrant they were in their youth. I didn’t think that would appeal to people in their 20s, who are the ones I think have the greatest chance of creating social change in this country. They’d be looking at their grandfathers.”

For similar reasons Mr. Morgen kept Mr. Evans off camera in “The Kid.” “I wanted,” he explained, “to preserve the integrity of him into the present tense.”

“I also wanted the new film to be playful, not overtly academic,” he added. Some of it is harrowing: Mr. Morgen’s recounting of the violence, assembled from at least 50 sources of film and audio, is a galloping nightmare of mayhem. But not everything of course was preserved.

“Animation came in for a number of reasons,” he said. “There were certain moments that weren’t on film, especially the trial. We needed a way to show what was happening in the courtroom. We could have done it in re- enactments, or though talking heads, or we could have had courtroom drawings panned and scanned. But I thought animation would have served as commentary on the trial; Jerry Rubin called it a ‘cartoon show,’ and when I read that quote, the bells went off.”

The animation, done via the process known as motion capture (most often associated with the Tom Hanks film “The Polar Express”), is being handled by Curious Pictures, which Mr. Morgen found — after a worldwide search — a few blocks away on Lafayette Street. The precision of “mo cap,” which has a capacity of 120 frames per second compared with film’s standard 24, provides a level of control directors previously could only dream of.

“Traditionally the director has been at the mercy of the person who’s drawing,” Mr. Morgen said. “Once you’d communicated what the action was supposed to be, it was really in the hands of the animator. Now, as the director, I get to control whether I want the eyebrow to go up, if I want it to go down, if I want the hand to go here, the hand to go there. So it’s allowed me total control over performance.”

Diane Weyermann, former director of the documentary program at the Sundance Institute and now executive vice president for documentary production at Participant Productions (“Good Night, and Good Luck,” “An Inconvenient Truth”), which is backing the film in partnership with River Road Entertainment, described Mr. Morgen’s film as “utterly contemporary,” which is the quality that attracted the two companies’ financial support.

“Our goal is to be the leading provider of entertainment that inspires and compels social change,” said Participant’s president, Ricky Strauss. “And for many years the events surrounding the Democratic convention in 1968, and the way they helped change the way Americans felt about the government, were synonymous with social change. How the country was being run, and the way the media portrayed it, is all very relevant today.”

River Road’s president, William M. Pohlad, said his involvement began during the 2004 presidential election. “We wanted to get people more active, not just in regard to that election, because the film would not nearly have come out in time,” he said. “But as interesting as it was at the time from a political standpoint, or a social standpoint, it was exciting creatively. Doing a film that was using archival footage as well as animation was exciting to me.”

Mr. Morgen said he originally thought that if he could not finish the film by 2004, it would have been “completely irrelevant.” Yet the echoes of the ’60s persist: An unpopular war. Wiretaps without court orders. A government mired in constitutional questions. All were aspects of the Nixon years, and all are among the reasons Mr. Morgen has been making a film that found its title only a day or so before the Sundance announcement.

“Chicago 10” is to be only the second opening-night documentary in the festival’s history (“Riding Giants,” about surfing, was the first, in 2004). It is also one of the few films that will arrive without distribution in place. It will not be shown to buyers before Jan. 18, all but ensuring that a bidding war will break out on the streets and slopes of Park City, Utah.

The new title refers to the eight original defendants, as well as the defense lawyers William Kunstler and Leonard Weinglass. In the summer, Mr. Morgen had said, perfectly seriously, that he was “leaning toward calling it ‘C7: The Story of the Chicago Eight,’ ” adding, “It was going to be ‘C7,’ but you can’t very well use that because of Bobby Seale.”

Mr. Seale, a founder of the Black Panthers, was one of the original defendants, the others being Mr. Rubin, Mr. Hoffman, David Dellinger, Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, John Froines and Lee Weiner, all prominent leaders of the antiwar movement. They were indicted on federal charges of conspiracy to commit violence at what many would come to call the “police riot” at the Democratic convention. Sketches of an unruly Mr. Seale, bound and gagged in Judge Hoffman’s courtroom before his trial was separated, were perhaps the most disturbing and resonant images from the proceedings. All were convicted.

Mr. Morgen, who was born in October 1968, said his perspective would be the same as most of his audience’s.

“The way I see it,” he said, “unless you were over 10 at the time, you really didn’t experience it, so anyone under the age of 50 in America has only the slightest knowledge of it, and most people under 30 haven’t even heard of what happened. When I started making this film, my idea was to make it for people who didn’t know what had happened.”

Of the principals who became involved with the proceedings, both inside and outside the courtroom, the most colorful turned out to be Allen Ginsberg and Abbie Hoffman, who are both being voiced by Hank Azaria, the first professional actor Mr. Morgen approached.

“Brett said, ‘Whatever you can help me out with,’ ” Mr. Azaria said. “ ‘Pick a voice. If you can do Abbie, great.’ And I said, ‘I think I can get Abbie and Ginsberg,’ so those are the two I did.”

Other cast members include Liev Schreiber (as Mr. Kunstler), Jeffrey Wright (Mr. Seale), Mark Ruffalo (Mr. Rubin), Nick Nolte (the prosecutor Thomas Foran), Dylan Baker (Mr. Dellinger), Mr. Scheider and Mr. Weinglass, the veteran civil rights lawyer.

“Early on,” Mr. Morgen said, “I was like, ‘O.K., I’ll use real voices wherever possible.’ ” Speaking of Mr. Hayden and Mr. Hoffman, he added: “I talked to Tom about voicing himself, but he didn’t talk that much during the trial. Then I was having a really hard time casting Abbie. We had to talk to his son for something, and we got on the phone with him and were like ‘God, he sounds just like Abbie,’ so we flew him to New York to do a recording. And he does sound identical to Abbie. But once again, he’s not an actor. So I figured it wasn’t going to work. Len Weinglass was the one exception. But he had limited lines.”

Mr. Weinglass, reached at his New York office, said the filmmakers were detail-oriented. After he did his recording session, he said: “They were very interested in talking to me about the trial and various aspects they wanted to flesh out. Did the undercover police officers appear in police uniform? Or did they appear in civilian dress? They want to present the case as accurately as possible. Of all the projects I’ve had a part in, they are the most fastidious in terms of detail.”

Mr. Weinglass said that he does a fair amount of speaking on college campuses and law schools, and that whenever he does, the introduction tends to focus on the Chicago trial.

“I look out at the audience, and am not sure they’re getting it,” he said. “The faculty member or the dean remembers, but I’m not sure about the others. But the trial of the Chicago Eight was the quintessential political trial. And I think it has resonance, especially today.”
712 2006-11-26 Giants officials have talked with Bonds’s agent, Jeff Borris, most recently last week, but they have talked without knowing what they want to do.

“We’ve had several conversations, and we’re going to continue to talk,” Larry Baer, the team’s chief operating officer, said.

Borris described his talks with the Giants as professional but offered no specifics. He said several other teams had expressed interest in Bonds, declining to identify them but saying they were in either league.

“I can tell you that Barry’s going to be a left fielder whether he winds up in the National League or the American League,” Borris said. “Even if he winds up in the American League, he will be a left fielder. That doesn’t mean he won’t D.H. some of the time, but he primarily will be a left fielder and sometimes a D.H.”

With knee problems undermining his playing ability last season, Bonds, some thought, might be better off going to the A.L. and being a designated hitter. But Bonds prefers left field, even though his fielding talents have deteriorated. He doesn’t dive for balls, and when he chases fly balls, he holds back when he nears the wall.

In making their decision, the Giants have to consider Bonds’s remaining baseball ability defensively and offensively, but also the off-field factors. Any club contemplating making an offer faces those considerations.

The No. 1 off-field factor is the possibility that a federal grand jury in San Francisco will indict Bonds during the season. That the United States attorney’s office in San Francisco continues to pursue its case against Bonds (perjury, money laundering, tax evasion, banking law violations) was made clear by its effort to keep Greg Anderson, Bonds’s friend and former trainer, in jail on contempt charges for refusing to testify before the grand jury.

The government seems intent on keeping Anderson in jail as long as it can to get him to tell what he knows about whether Bonds used performance-enhancing substances. It is not clear how critical Anderson is to the government’s case, but he hasn’t talked and the grand jury hasn’t indicted Bonds.

“I have a feeling they can’t make their case without him,” Anderson’s lawyer Mark Geragos said.

The most critical on-field factor in anyone’s decision to sign Bonds is his hitting ability at ages 42 and 43. At 41 and 42, he was undermined by knee problems early and an elbow problem late. He had a bone chip removed from his elbow the day after the season ended.

Bonds did not hit well the first four months of last season, finishing July with a .240 average, 14 home runs and 45 runs batted in. But in the last two months, he batted .316, hit 12 home runs and drove in 32 runs. He wound up hitting 26 home runs in 367 at-bats, or about one every 14 at-bats. In the previous four seasons, his home run ratio ranged from one in 6.5 at-bats to one in 8.8.

His combined on-base and slugging percentages totaled .999, the first time he was less than 1.000 since 1991.

Yet, Borris said, “Teams I’m having discussions with are having their managers and players call Barry to urge him to play in their cities.”

No team has identified itself as having interest in Bonds. Oakland has been mentioned as a possibility, but General Manager Billy Beane declined to comment.

“We don’t publicly talk about free agents we might have interest in,” he said.

Giving Bonds a lot of money would be uncharacteristic of the Athletics’ owner, Lewis Wolff, and of Beane, who seeks low-paid, high-value players. He signed Frank Thomas a year ago for $500,000 in addition to bonuses.

“We have X amount to spend on a player and usually don’t have X times two,” Beane said.

The Athletics, needing a productive right-handed hitter, offered Thomas $15 million for two years and made a similar offer to Moises Alou, but Thomas went to Toronto for $18 million and Alou took a one-year, $8.5 million deal from the Mets.

If anyone signs Bonds, whose last contract averaged $18 million a year, he will probably have to accept a smaller guarantee than he wants, with bonuses based on games or plate appearances. If anyone signs him.

The Mets await word from Tom Glavine about his interest in playing for them next season. The only other team he would play for, he has said, is Atlanta, where he played for his first 16 years in the majors. But do the Braves want him back?

John Schuerholz, the Braves’ general manager, won’t say because he doesn’t discuss free agents, but speaking generally he said:

“Our organization is trying to improve our pitching. That is the primary focus of all of our winter work. We are examining every possibility available to us. Obviously, we’re very well aware of Tom’s ability and production, so in our search to improve our pitching, we have all of our options open to us.”

And that includes Glavine, right?

“We need to do as much as we can to try to get our pitching back to what it was,” Schuerholz said. “In bygone years, it allowed us to win. Last year, it did not.”

The Dodgers — that’s the team that rightfully has the name Los Angeles — are betting $44 million that Juan Pierre is not going downhill at 29. The Angels — that’s the team that hijacked the name Los Angeles — are gambling $50 million that Gary Matthews Jr. is going uphill.

Last week, the Dodgers signed Pierre, a center fielder, and the Angels signed Matthews, also a center fielder, to large contracts, but each player poses possible problems.

In his first four full seasons in the majors, with the Rockies and the Marlins, Pierre was a dangerous leadoff hitter who three times collected 200 hits in a season, batted better than .300 and registered an impressive on-base percentage. In his last two seasons, though, he has not batted .300 and has not exceeded .330 in on-base percentage.

Is that an aberration or a trend?

In Matthews’s first six seasons, with six teams, he didn’t hit better than .276 and had a career .249 batting average. Last season with Texas, Matthews batted .313 and had career highs in home runs (19) and R.B.I. (79) after having achieved career highs the previous season with 17 and 55.

Is that an aberration or signs of a late bloomer?

Mike Stanton is the latest example of the adage that it pays to raise your son to be a left-handed relief pitcher.

Stanton is 39 and has a well-used arm — he has pitched in the third-most games in major league history — but he recently signed a two-year contract with Cincinnati. The Reds will add a third year if he pitches in 140 games the next two seasons.

Last season, Stanton relieved in 82 games, one short of his career high, and when he relieves for the 11th time next season, he will pass John Franco for second on the games list behind Jesse Orosco.

If he hits 140, he will be three behind Orosco with 1,149, amassed in an 18-year career with the Braves, the Red Sox, the Rangers, the Yankees, the Mets, the Red Sox and the Yankees again, the Nationals and the Giants.
713 2006-11-26 THE BASICS In an unusual joint venture with Volkswagen, the aging Park Hotel last year commissioned 21 artists, illustrators, graphic designers, graffiti writers and other forward-looking creators to decorate its 61 rooms. The result is the Hotel Fox, a visually dazzling — though not always comfortable — array of fantasylands and dreamscapes. Designed in styles as diverse as Japanimation, neo-Baroque pastiche, fractal-like abstraction and Pop Art flamboyance, the rooms often playfully blur the line between sleeping and waking.

THE LOCATION On the periphery of the historical city center, the Fox is also roughly a 10-minute walk to Tivoli amusement park, Central Station, Norreport train station and other points of interest.

THE ROOMS Rooms come in small, medium, large and extra large. My room was No. 510, a small room designed by a German illustrator, Birgit Amadori, and nicknamed King’s Court 2. Lining the walls were pictures of regally attired humanoid creatures with playfully monstrous heads — Medusa-esque, squidlike, flame-engulfed. Like a 19th-century dollhouse, its furniture included tufted armchairs and Gothic electric candelabras. According to the plaque on the door, the room was “designed to soothe thoughts.”

The design was partly a triumph of style over substance. About the size of a cruise-ship cabin, the room had a single bed and a chintzy little desk that could hold only the small flat-screen TV and a simple phone. Though the room had a high-speed Internet connection, the lack of a desk chair meant that I had to lie in my narrow bed to use my laptop.

THE BATHROOMS Untouched by the commissioned artists, the generic industrial tiles and fixtures recall an American college dormitory. Mine had only a shower with an unmountable, hand-held sprayer. The lone serving of Hotel Fox combination shampoo and shower gel came in a packet like airline salad dressing. The stiff towels seemed washed once too many times.

ROOM SERVICE Guests can order food to their rooms only during the dinner service of the hotel’s restaurant. Presided over by Anders Barsoe (a veteran of WD-50 in New York City), it serves somewhat adventurous Nordic-tinged dishes, like rooster with sautéed liver in oatmeal and rhubarb. A three-course meal for two, without wine, runs about 600 kroner, about $100 at 6 kroner to the dollar. The hotel desk also sells a trio of Snack Bags (150 to 250 kroner): one for lovers (with a half-bottle of champagne and various “toys”); one for hangovers (with a sandwich, aspirin and a Bloody Mary); and one for movie watchers (candy, popcorn and soda or beer).
714 2006-11-26 TYRONE EMERY works on the factory floor of the Greyston Bakery in Yonkers, mixing batter, positioning pans and packing boxes. Seventeen months ago he was serving a federal prison sentence for dealing heroin. Dieulane Philogene worked her way up fr...
715 2006-11-26 TYRONE EMERY works on the factory floor of the Greyston Bakery in Yonkers, mixing batter, positioning pans and packing boxes. Seventeen months ago he was serving a federal prison sentence for dealing heroin. Dieulane Philogene worked her way up fr...
716 2006-11-26 TYRONE EMERY works on the factory floor of the Greyston Bakery in Yonkers, mixing batter, positioning pans and packing boxes. Seventeen months ago he was serving a federal prison sentence for dealing heroin. Dieulane Philogene worked her way up fr...
717 2006-11-26 THE communities of Great Neck and Pelham in New York; Fairfield, Conn.; and Glen Ridge, N.J., have several things in common: first-rate public schools, stately homes on tree-lined streets and municipal amenities like well-groomed parks and fine li...
718 2006-11-26 THE communities of Pelham and Great Neck in New York; Fairfield, Conn.; and Glen Ridge, N.J., have several things in common: first-rate public schools, stately homes on tree-lined streets and municipal amenities like well-groomed parks and fine li...
719 2006-11-26 THE communities of Glen Ridge, Fairfield, Conn., and Great Neck and Pelham in New York have several things in common: first-rate public schools, stately homes on tree-lined streets and municipal amenities like well-groomed parks and fine libraries...
720 2006-11-26 THE communities of Fairfield, Glen Ridge, N.J., and Great Neck and Pelham in New York have several things in common: first-rate public schools, stately homes on tree-lined streets and municipal amenities like well-groomed parks and fine libraries....
721 2006-11-26 Westchester's lofty property taxes would inch a little higher next year under a $1.7 billion budget proposed by Andrew J. Spano, the Democratic county executive.     The property tax levy would increase by 3.98 percent under Mr. Spano's plan, whic...
722 2006-11-26 Because detecting Avian flu with standard tests is so difficult and time-consuming, waiting for laboratory confirmation of an outbreak would cause dangerous treatment delays, according to new studies of two flu outbreaks.     The studies, publishe...
723 2006-11-26 As I chuckled my way through your special issue on comedy in films (Nov. 12), I couldn't help thinking: Was this timed to be a humorous consolation of sorts for those of us who might have been disappointed about the recent election results? In my ...
724 2006-11-26 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard...
725 2006-11-26 Just how evil are short-sellers? Ask James Bond.     In the new Bond movie, ''Casino Royale,'' an odious villain -- Le Chiffre, portrayed by the Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen -- tries to make $100 million by short-selling a stock, then forcing the c...
726 2006-11-27 Scott Kapnick will step down as one of Goldman Sachs' three co-heads of investment banking, continuing the high-level changes that began when the firm named Lloyd Blankfein as chief executive this summer. Mr. Kapnick, 47, will retire at the end of...
727 2006-11-27 Standard & Poor's reported on Monday that companies in the S&P 500-stock index spent $110 billion to repurchase their own stock in the third quarter. That is slightly below the record $117 billion spent on buybacks in the second quarter, but still...
728 2006-11-27 Are public shareholders getting shortchanged when investment firms take companies private? That is one of the most hotly debated questions of the recent private-equity boom, and The Wall Street Journal touched on it, albeit briefly, in a Sunday ar...
729 2006-11-27 A portrait of McCain; wanting to read O.J.; the Netherlands' proposed burqa ban....
730 2006-11-27 Freddy Rodriguez, that guy from "Six Feet Under," has a memorable role as the busboy who cradles the head of the assassinated presidential candidate in "Bobby," and he is is very picky about the roles he will take. He tells the Associated Press th...
731 2006-11-27 Microsoft submitted a new batch of technical information about its Windows operating system to the European Commission on Thursday, meeting the latest deadline to provide information on whether it is complying with a 2004 antitrust ruling. "This i...
732 2006-11-27 It seems that the only thing that hedge funds do not invest in is lawsuits. And that may change. This year, Australia's highest court gave its blessing to "litigation funding companies" funds that pay the cost of litigation, including lawyers' fee...
733 2006-11-27 Lone Star Funds, the private equity firm based in Dallas, canceled an agreement on Thursday to sell its controlling stake in the Korea Exchange Bank to the Kookmin Bank, South Korea's biggest lender, citing "politically motivated" prosecutors who ...
734 2006-11-27 The London Stock Exchange is preparing to cut its prices to compete with a rival shareholding platform being set up by seven investment banks, The Sunday Telegraph said. Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan...
735 2006-11-27 Swisscom said it is entering talks to buy back a 25 percent stake in its mobile arm held by the Vodafone Group, which is selling stakes in holdings around the world. Go to Article from MarketWatch »...
736 2006-11-27 The chief executive of BJ's Wholesale Club resigned after months of disappointing sales, sparking speculation on Wall Street that the retailer may be put up for sale. The company said its chairman, Herbert J. Zarkin, would serve as interim chief e...
737 2006-11-27 There is an old saying that when the shoe-shine guy is giving stock tips, it is time to get out of the market. The idea is that when the general public is obsessed with a certain kind of investment, that investment is probably nearing a top. What,...
738 2006-11-27 ROME, Nov. 27 — They will almost certainly remain strange bedfellows, Hollywood and the Holy See, but the two had a rare encounter on Sunday when the Vatican was the host of the world premiere of the New Line Cinema film “The Nativity Story,” giving an unprecedented stamp of approval to an American studio production. And though Pope Benedict XVI was conspicuously absent from the event, a clutch of high-ranking cardinals joined the more than 7,000 people who attended.

Held in Paul VI Hall next to St. Peter’s Basilica, the premiere started late, in true Hollywood fashion. The film’s director, Catherine Hardwicke (“Thirteen,” “Lords of Dogtown”), and cast members were seated directly across from high-ranking church officials like Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the Vatican’s secretary of state, who ranks second only to Pope Benedict in the Vatican hierarchy. “I kept trying to look over there to see if they liked it,” Ms. Hardwicke acknowledged after the premiere.

That, of course, was a foregone conclusion, as the pope himself had approved of the film well in advance.

“It is well done,” Cardinal Bertone said, as Reuters reported. “It reproposes this event which changed history with realism but also with a sense of great respect of the mystery of the Nativity.”

“The Nativity Story” is a dramatic recounting of the courtship between Mary and Joseph and their journey to Bethlehem for the birth of Jesus. It is one of a wave of religious-themed movies due from Hollywood studios, which awakened to the potential of an audience for these films with the success of Mel Gibson’s “Passion of the Christ” in 2004.

Sunday’s event marked the first time the Vatican was the host of the world premiere of a full-length feature film, though last year it helped stage the debut of a television movie about the life of Pope John Paul II, at which Pope Benedict XVI was present. The premiere was also in sharp contrast to the tensions between some Roman Catholic groups and Sony Pictures Entertainment over “The Da Vinci Code,” which was based on a popular novel that challenges church doctrine.
739 2006-11-27 Li Jinsong, a lawyer for Mr. Chen who is based in Beijing, argued in court that the trial should be postponed until the witnesses could appear. When the judges rejected his request, he stormed out of the courtroom in protest.

“Our witnesses were prepared to make clear that the evidence against Chen Guangcheng was based on forced confessions of several people who do not stand by their accusations against him,” Mr. Li said. “Those witnesses were prevented from attending the trial, and I believe we are headed toward another wrongful conviction.”

Mr. Chen, who has been blind since a childhood illness, taught himself the law and became a crusader for peasant rights. For a time he was hailed in China and abroad as a barefoot lawyer who helped legal norms take root in China’s countryside.

But in 2005 he sought to organize a class-action lawsuit on behalf of people forced to undergo late-term abortions or sterilization operations in a mass crackdown aimed at helping local officials meet their quota for limiting population growth. In so doing he ran afoul of powerful party officials in Shandong.

Local authorities retaliated against Mr. Chen, confining him to his home for many months and later charging him with damaging property and disrupting traffic. Mr. Chen’s lawyers say that the charges were fabrications.

Though Chinese news media have been barred from reporting on the matter, the case has attracted high-level attention in Beijing. Many legal experts in the capital believed that local authorities would come under pressure to grant Mr. Chen at least the semblance of an impartial hearing, and they initially welcomed the rare decision by a provincial appeals court to order a new trial.

Despite the detention and intimidation of potential witnesses, Mr. Chen’s defense lawyers say, the second trial was in some respects an improvement over the first. Among other blatant irregularities in the first trial, Mr. Chen’s chosen defense attorneys were not allowed to represent him, and he was assigned new lawyers who did not contest the charges against him.

This time, Mr. Li, his lead lawyer, was permitted to defend Mr. Chen in court. But he said the conduct of the local police and judges gave little hope for a fair verdict.

“Under Chinese law this is still a wrongful case,” he said.
740 2006-11-27 Stocks suffered their biggest drop in four months today, as concerns about a weak holiday shopping season fed into broader anxiety about the slowing economy.

It was a day with little for investors to cheer, with the dollar continuing its slide against the euro and the price of a barrel of oil rising.

The decline on Wall Street spoiled what had been a steady run-up in stock prices in recent weeks. In the past month and a half, the Dow Jones industrial average broke through 12,000 for the first time, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose to its highest point in six years.

But some of that investor enthusiasm faded, pushing the three leading stock market indexes into retreat today. The S.&P. 500 lost 19.05 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,381.90, its first close below 1,400 since Nov. 16. The Dow shed 158.46 points, or 1.3 percent, to 12,121.71. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 54.34 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,405.92.

Some of the steepest losses came in the shares of retailers like Wal-Mart, whose troubles reverberated throughout the stock market. The world’s largest retailer reported Saturday that its sales in November fell for the first time in 10 years. Despite signs that retailers on average fared well during the first weekend of the holiday shopping crunch, the poor results from Wal-Mart raised questions about how much consumers will spend this season.
741 2006-11-27 The deal sets the stage for a tough battle between big Western retailers, which are eager to tap India’s growing middle classes, and the ancient traditions of the 12 million family-run shops in India.

“It is a defining moment for India’s retail industry,” said Kishore Biyani, chief executive of the leading Indian retail company, Future Group.

Mr. Biyani, whose group runs more than 200 stores, said he and his colleagues were keenly watching the strategy of the new venture.

Wal-Mart has stumbled recently in some of its overseas markets, in part by misjudging local tastes. It said this year that it would pull out of South Korea and Germany.

Bharti has no experience in superstores, but it is well known in India as a market leader in cellphones.

“Bharti and Wal-Mart make a formidable combination, said Arvind Singhal, chairman of KSA Technopak, a retail consultancy based in New Delhi. “One is the world’s largest retailer and the other is amongst India’s most aggressive companies.”

The Indian retail industry remains largely closed to foreign capital, owing to fear that Western retailers will cost mom-and-pop shops their livelihoods.

But Wal-Mart has seized upon two loopholes: Foreign retailers can operate through franchisees and invest their own capital in wholesale shops, as the German retailer Metro has done. Mr. Mittal said that the U.S. retailer would open franchise stores owned by Bharti while investing its own money in wholesale outlets.

Wal-Mart, with backing from Washington, has lobbied aggressively to pry open a market where just 3 percent of consumers shop in large-format, Western-style stores. That compares to 20 percent in China, 30 percent in Indonesia and 40 percent in Thailand, according to KSA Technopak.

Retail is one of the world’s largest industries, and India is often described within the trade as its lucrative last frontier, offering a unique opportunity to coax 1 billion consumers away from the corner store and into the hypermarket.

Critics of Wal-Mart described the announcement as a grim portent. They say that the ranks of the jobless will rise, and that pollution will increase as shoppers drive to stores instead of receiving home-delivered produce.

“The entry of Wal-Mart will be like an economic tsunami in terms of its destructive impact,” said Vandana Shiva, an environmental campaigner who runs an organic food business.

Although India has gradually opened to foreign companies since 1991, Ms. Shiva called this move the most radical.

“The other reforms touch on one sphere — opening up banking touches only finance,” she said. “But because of the nature of what Wal-Mart does, it will affect the people who grow food, the people who eat it and the people who sell it.”

Small retailers have resisted government-led attempts to organize the sector and make way for bigger chains.

Recently, a court-ordered shutdown of more than 30,000 small shops that operate illegally in New Delhi’s residential neighborhoods met with violent protests.

Yet small steps are being made toward change. In January, the government allowed international companies to set up single-brand retail chains and hold up to a 51 percent stake.

Last month, the largest private-sector Indian company, the petrochemical giant Reliance Industries, opened the first of 5,500 planned retail stores, in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad.

The Indian retail industry is expected to grow from $300 billion a year today to $637 billion by 2015. The share of large-format, organized retail is expected to grow in the next five years from 3 percent to 18 percent.

Based on those numbers, industry experts argue that the leading players in Indian retail could each count on $10 billion to $50 billion in annual revenue within a decade. Such numbers begin to look interesting even to big players like Wal-Mart, which reported $338 billion in revenue last year.

Wal-Mart already has a sourcing operation in India, purchasing $1.6 billion worth of leather goods, textiles and other wares for sale around the world.

But it has long argued to Indian officials that, were it allowed to sell as well as buy here, it would use its zealous inventory control and logistics expertise to help spread prosperity by creating new markets for farmers.

Indian agriculture remains plagued by low yields, underinvestment and creaking infrastructure that is largely responsible for 40 percent of all farm produce spoiling before it reaches the market.

In an interview earlier this year, Beth Keck, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the retailer was interested in working with Indian farmers to improve their growing methods and then to ferry their wares more efficiently to supermarkets in India and around the world.

“We have stores in 15 countries, and there are some very attractive products grown in India that we would like to export,” she said. She cited mangoes and other fruit, Basmati rice and spices.

The company’s interest in Indian agriculture sets it up for major collisions, however. India’s ailing farms are a source of national angst, having driven thousands of farmers to suicide in recent years. And for everyone who believes that the greater efficiencies of a big company will help farmers to increase their incomes, there are others who warn that deprivation will widen as the demands of efficiency pressure farmers to place all their bets on single crops.

Then there are the cultural differences that could still complicate Wal-Mart’s plans, even with a local partner.

Ancient Hindu holy books enshrined a hereditary merchant caste, and their descendants have used millennia of first-mover advantage to become indispensable to Indians. Small shops extend credit and make home deliveries. They will phone a south Indian migrant in Mumbai to say that a special type of banana has arrived, because they know he or she celebrates an autumn festival.

“The success models that are unique to successful Indian retailing will have to find their way into Wal-Mart’s strategy,” said Mike Moriarty, a vice president at the consulting firm A.T. Kearney and the author of a recent study that named India the world’s most attractive retailing market.

In an interview this year, Ms. Keck said she had been “struck” by India’s family stores on a recent visit to the country.

“They were excellent operations,” she said. “They were clean. They were well stocked. They had the products the people in that neighborhood were looking for. They provided credit.”

“We’re always open to new ways of doing business,” she added. “And if India provides us with a new business model, you can bet we will adopt it.”
742 2006-11-27 Philip Morris has adopted the role of good citizen these days. Its Web site brims with information on the dangers of smoking, and it has mounted a campaign of television spots that urge parents, oh so earnestly, to warn their children against smoking. That follows an earlier $100 million campaign warning young people to “Think. Don’t Smoke,” analogous to the “just say no” admonitions against drugs.

All this seems to fly against the economic interests of the company, which presumably depends on a continuing crop of new smokers to replace those who drop out or die from their habit. But in practice, it turns out, these industry-run campaigns are notably ineffective and possibly even a sham. New research shows that the ads aimed at youths had no discernible effect in discouraging smoking and that the ads currently aimed at parents may be counterproductive.

That disturbing insight comes from a study just published in The American Journal of Public Health by respected academic researchers who were supported by the National Cancer Institute, the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Using sophisticated analytical techniques, the researchers concluded that the ads aimed directly at young people had no beneficial effect, while those aimed at parents were actually harmful to young people apt to see them, especially older teenagers. The greater the teenagers’ potential exposure to the ads, the stronger their intention to smoke and the greater their likelihood of having smoked in the past 30 days.

Just why the costly advertising campaigns produce no health benefits is a rich subject for exploration. The ads are fuzzy-warm, which could actually generate favorable feelings for the tobacco industry and, by extension, its products. And their theme — that adults should tell young people not to smoke mostly because they are young people — is exactly the sort of message that would make many teenagers feel like lighting up. (Trial testimony has made it clear that the goal of Philip Morris’s youth smoking prevention programs is to delay smoking until adulthood, not to discourage it for a lifetime.)

The most exhaustive judicial analysis of the industry’s tactics, by Judge Gladys Kessler of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, concluded that the youth smoking prevention programs were not really designed to effectively prevent youth smoking but rather to head off a government crackdown. They are minimally financed compared with the vast sums spent on cigarette marketing and promotion; they are understaffed and run by people with no expertise; and they ignore the strategies that have proved effective in preventing adolescent smoking. The television ads, for example, do not stress the deadly and addictive impacts of smoking, an emphasis that has been shown to work in other antitobacco campaigns.

Philip Morris says it has spent more than $1 billion on its youth smoking prevention programs since 1998 and that it devised its current advertising campaign on the advice of experts who deem parental influence extremely important. But the company has done only the skimpiest research on how the campaign is working. It cites June 2006 data indicating that 37 percent of parents with children age 10 to 17 were both aware of its ads and spoke to their children about not smoking. How the children reacted has not been explored. And somehow the company forgot to tell the parents, as role models, to stop smoking themselves.
743 2006-11-27 BAGHDAD, Nov. 26 — Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said Sunday that Iraq’s politicians were largely responsible for the surge in violence that engulfed the country over the past week, a departure from his previous assertions blaming militants for inciting the mayhem.

“These actions are at most the reflection of political backgrounds and wills and sometimes the reflection of dogmatic, perverted backgrounds and wills,” Mr. Maliki said. “The crisis is political, and the ones who can stop the cycle of aggravation and bloodletting of innocents are the politicians.” He said politicians must work harder to stop the violence.

Mr. Maliki spoke at a news conference just a few days before he was to meet with President Bush to discuss the deteriorating security situation in Iraq. The remarks were an acknowledgment of the political nature of the war here and placed responsibility on political leaders for achieving peace.

The war is being driven by leaders of Sunni and Shiite militias vying for dominance and has spiraled into a pattern of revenge killings and rival sects driving each other out of neighborhoods.

Mr. Maliki spoke after a meeting of an advisory security council of Iraq’s top politicians, including himself, the president and the speaker of Parliament. The council has met in recent days in an attempt to quell the tensions after the killings of more than 200 people by bombings in a Shiite district of Baghdad on Thursday, the deadliest single attack since the American invasion. The next day, vengeful Shiite militiamen attacked Sunni mosques in Baghdad and in the nearby city of Baquba.
744 2006-11-27 RED LAKE, Minn., Nov. 26 (AP) — The authorities called off a major ground search of the Red Lake Indian Reservation on Sunday after they turned up no sign of two young brothers who have been missing since they went out to play on Wednesday.

But Special Agent Paul McCabe of the F.B.I. said the authorities would continue pursuing leads and that the effort to find the boys, Tristan A. White, 4, and Avery L. Stately, 2, was not over.

It was unclear whether the brothers wandered off or were taken. “We don’t have any indication at this time that foul play is involved,” Agent McCabe said.

Investigators have received about 70 tips, Agent McCabe said. The F.B.I. has offered a $20,000 reward for information leading to the boys.

Falling temperatures dimmed hopes that the boys could survive outside. By Sunday, afternoon temperatures in the area were in the 20s.

Agent McCabe acknowledged that the hundreds of searchers and volunteers were disappointed with the decision to call off the ground search.
745 2006-11-27 President Bush is expected to push for easing the restrictions when he meets with NATO leaders on Tuesday and Wednesday at an alliance summit meeting in Riga, Latvia.

Bush administration officials, diplomats from NATO nations and military officers said that how the alliance resolved the question of caveats would determine whether NATO’s leading role in Afghanistan represented a first step toward a broader future for the alliance — or a peak that, once attained, might never be scaled again.

Gen. James L. Jones, NATO’s supreme allied commander, told the Council on Foreign Relations in October that “there are about 50 restrictions that have an operational impact, that impact on the commander” in Afghanistan.

While NATO officials said progress had been made in easing restrictions since then, the senior American officer in Afghanistan, Lt. Gen. Karl Eikenberry, said this week that problems remained, and that NATO nations needed to fulfill their commitments to send troops, as well.

General Eikenberry, chief of the Combined Forces Command-Afghanistan, said Tuesday that NATO nations had contributed only “85 percent of the level of what was promised.” Speaking at the Pentagon, he also said “there does remain the question of some countries that have particular caveats — that is, restrictions on their ability to commit to all missions of Afghanistan.”

Experts on alliance relations now in the private sector say the Afghanistan experience actually may raise the level of combat competence among those nations that entered the mission with caveats and reluctance to take on a heavy role in the fighting.

“I fall into the category of the half-full glass more than the half-empty,” said Gen. Joseph W. Ralston, who retired after serving as NATO’s supreme allied commander.

“We have seen a maturation in the past 11 years,” said General Ralston, now a distinguished senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy institute here. “And I think as the nations encounter the high-intensity conflict of Afghanistan, there will in fact be a positive outcome that comes from that.”

Daniel Fried, the assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, said that even nations with troops in Afghanistan under combat caveats contributed to reconstruction and overall security, and that the system, however difficult, was better than a wholly unilateral American mission.

“It is a success for the trans-Atlantic community that despite disagreements about Iraq, despite politics and partisanship, that NATO has undertaken a set of new missions with Afghanistan front and center that changed the nature of the organization,” Mr. Fried said.

He emphasized that the summit meeting’s work would be to respond to current security challenges and improve the alliance’s responses.

NATO is not scheduled to accept any new members at the Riga meeting. Even so, words of encouragement are expected for three nations — Croatia, Macedonia and Albania — in line for membership, perhaps as early as 2008.

And in an expansion of NATO’s relations with nations far from its traditional geographic sphere, members are expected to propose establishing an initiative for a global partnership to acknowledge the role that nations like Australia, Japan, South Korea, Sweden and Finland play in NATO missions.

These countries “do not seek NATO membership, but we seek a partnership with them so that we can train more intensively from a military point of view and grow closer to them because we are deployed with them,” said R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs.

“Australia, South Korea and Japan are in Afghanistan,” he said. “They have all been in Iraq, as you know. They have all been in the Balkans.”

But Mr. Burns acknowledged that “for us, the No. 1 issue is Afghanistan.”

In a telephone interview, NATO’s secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said, “The threats and challenges facing NATO as we speak are of a global nature: terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.” He added: “NATO today is transforming and adapting itself. We need 21st-century answers to 21st- century threats and challenges.”
746 2006-11-27 PITTSBURGH, Nov. 26 — When Mike Roscoe first saw water running along the gangway between his two row houses, he thought he was dealing with a leaking pipe, not the impact of global economic forces.

After all, why would thieves — midnight plumbers as the police call them — tear out the floorboards, toilets, even the walls of the homes, all in search of copper tubing?

“To go through this effort? I don’t get it,” said Mr. Roscoe, 39, a truck driver and fledgling landlord who discovered the damage Monday when he arrived to do some work to help get his two attached, red-brick houses in the Allentown neighborhood ready to rent. “You could make more money getting a job at minimum wage.”

Not necessarily. In the last year, a worldwide surge in demand for copper, largely from construction booms in China and India, has pushed up its value. Though the market price has slipped, it is still more than double what it was just over a year ago.

Scrap metal dealers in Pittsburgh said they were paying about $2 a pound for No. 2 copper, which by definition has been bent or soldered, more than triple the 65 cents they paid a year ago. That kind of payout makes a copper haul like the approximately 20 pounds taken out of Mr. Roscoe’s row houses worth about eight hours of work at minimum wage ($5.15 an hour).
747 2006-11-27 “Jay-Z Has Sold Out.” That was the message taped to box office windows at the Howard Gilman Opera House at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Saturday night. As a statement of fact, this was plain and clear. But it didn’t take much interpretive effort to catch an unintended double meaning in the phrase.

Figuring out what a Jay-Z sellout would entail is a trickier business. He’s the high-rolling president of Def Jam Recordings, but also, he insists, still a hustler at his core. He treated his concert as a Brooklyn homecoming, and a no-nonsense crowd reinforced the feeling. So did the setup, which had him backed only by a D.J., Green Lantern, and a lyrical partner, Memphis Bleek, along with basic stage lighting and a video screen.

But before the first of many roof-raising shout-outs to the borough of his origin, Jay-Z opened with the title track from his new album, “Kingdom Come” (Roc-a-Fella/Island Def Jam). The song is a marvel of messianic conviction — “Not only N.Y.C., I’m hip-hop’s savior,” Jay-Z boasts in the chorus — that lays claim not just to hip-hop’s throne but its soul. More literally it heralds a successful return to the game, after a less-than-successful departure from it.

“Just when they thought it was all over, I put the whole world on my back and broad shoulders,” Jay-Z barked at one point in the tune, overstating both the impact of his so-called retirement and the weight of his burden. Because most of the people in the crowd knew “Kingdom Come” by heart, they pitched in, making the sentiment feel more jubilant. During one of several superhero metaphors, Jay-Z pointedly dropped out and they managed to finish his line, “Superman is alive.”

They managed a lot more over the course of the show, including the entirety of the Notorious B.I.G.’s verse in “Mo Money Mo Problems.” (That moment came during a medley of throwback anthems by fallen hip-hop heroes, a roll call that also included Jam Master Jay, Tupac and Aaliyah.) Jay-Z’s sturdy vintage material inspired a similar response, with even his more slippery lines being echoed verbatim in the hall.

The finer nuances of Jay-Z’s flow — his sleek syncopations and deceptively casual cadences — were only partly discernible in a show plagued by muddy acoustics. Perhaps for this reason he delivered some of his lyrics a cappella. It was in those moments that the full measure of his charisma came across, since the unaccompanied setting gave him a chance to lower his volume, expand and contract his tempo, and play with some subtleties of tone.
748 2006-11-27 Of course our relationship is not always a struggle. My morning walk with George is very often the highlight of my day — when I have my best thoughts, when I most appreciate both nature and the city, and in a deeper sense, life itself. Our hour together is a bit of compensation for the burdens of civilization: business attire, e-mail, money, etiquette, walls and artificial lighting. It is even a kind of compensation for language. Why does watching a dog be a dog fill one with happiness? And why does it make one feel, in the best sense of the word, human?

It is children, very often, who want dogs. In a recent study, when asked to name the 10 most important “individuals” in their lives, 7- and 10-year-olds included two pets on average. In another study, 42 percent of 5-year-olds spontaneously mentioned their pets when asked, “Whom do you turn to when you are feeling, sad, angry, happy or wanting to share a secret?” Just about every children’s book in my local bookstore has an animal for its hero. But then, only a few feet away in the cookbook section, just about every cookbook includes recipes for cooking animals. Is there a more illuminating illustration of our paradoxical relationship with the nonhuman world?

In the course of our lives, we move from a warm and benevolent relationship with animals (learning responsibility through caring for our pets, stroking and confiding in them), to a cruel one (virtually all animals raised for meat in this country are factory farmed — they spend their lives in confinement, dosed with antibiotics and other drugs).

How do you explain this? Is our kindness replaced with cruelty? I don’t think so. I think in part it’s because the older we get, the less exposure we have to animals. And nothing facilitates indifference or forgetfulness so much as distance. In this sense, dogs and cats have been very lucky: they are the only animals we are intimately exposed to daily.

Folk parental wisdom and behavioral studies alike generally view the relationships children have with companion animals as beneficial. But one does not have to be a child to learn from a pet. It is precisely my frustrations with George, and the inconveniences she creates, that reinforce in me how much compromise is necessary to share space with other beings.

The practical arguments against off-leash hours are easily refuted. One doesn’t have to be an animal scientist to know that the more a dog is able to exercise its “dogness”— to run and play, to socialize with other dogs — the happier it will be. Happy dogs, like happy people, tend not to be aggressive. In the years that dogs have been allowed to run free in city parks, dog bites have decreased 90 percent. But there is another argument that is not so easy to respond to: some people just don’t want to be inconvenienced by dogs. Giving dogs space necessarily takes away space from humans.

We have been having this latter debate, in different forms, for ages. Again and again we are confronted with the reality — some might say the problem — of sharing our space with other living things, be they dogs, trees, fish or penguins. Dogs in the park are a present example of something that is often too abstracted or far away to gain our consideration.

The very existence of parks is a response to this debate: earlier New Yorkers had the foresight to recognize that if we did not carve out places for nature in our cities, there would be no nature. It was recently estimated that Central Park’s real estate would be worth more than $500 billion. Which is to say we are half a trillion dollars inconvenienced by trees and grass. But we do not think of it as an inconvenience. We think of it as balance.

Living on a planet of fixed size requires compromise, and while we are the only party capable of negotiating, we are not the only party at the table. We’ve never claimed more, and we’ve never had less. There has never been less clean air or water, fewer fish or mature trees. If we are not simply ignoring the situation, we keep hoping for (and expecting) a technological solution that will erase our destruction, while allowing us to continue to live without compromise. Maybe zoos will be an adequate replacement for wild animals in natural habitats. Maybe we will be able to recreate the Amazon somewhere else. Maybe one day we will be able to genetically engineer dogs that do not wish to run free. Maybe. But will those futures make us feel, in the best sense of the word, human?

I have been taking George to Prospect Park twice a day for more than three years, but her running is still a revelation to me. Effortlessly, joyfully, she runs quite a bit faster than the fastest human on the planet. And faster, I’ve come to realize, than the other dogs in the park. George might well be the fastest land animal in Brooklyn. Once or twice every morning, for no obvious reason, she’ll tear into a full sprint. Other dog owners can’t help but watch her. Every now and then someone will cheer her on. It is something to behold.
749 2006-11-27 The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow.     At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstandin...
750 2006-11-27 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:    Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, an initial offering of 83.5 million shares. Citigroup.  Netlist, an initial offering of 6.25 million primary shares. Thomas Weisel...
751 2006-11-27 STOCK--Eleanor Schwarz passed away at her vacation home in Sagaponack on November 22, 2006, after a long illness. She was born in Manhattan on September 15, 1924 and lived at 155 East 72 Street in Manhattan. She is survived by her husband, Richard...
752 2006-11-27 NEW DIRECTION IN HEART RESEARCH Standard therapies like bypass surgery, angioplasty, stents and anticholesterol drugs have not been enough to prevent 200,000 to 500,000 American deaths annually from coronary artery disease. As a result, many resea...
753 2006-11-28 Incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi issued a public rejection notice this afternoon, saying she had notified Congressman Alcee Hastings that he would not become chairman of the House intelligence panel....
754 2006-11-28 Shares of Harrah's Entertainment jumped Tuesday afternoon as investors reacted to a report that the company, the largest casino operator in the world, might receive a second takeover bid. CNBC reported that a group including Penn National Gaming, ...
755 2006-11-28 In some cases, the best strategy for companies faced with a backdating scandal is to start firing people, experts suggest to BusinessWeek. And general counsels are among the most popular candidates to get the boot, The Financial Times writes in a ...
756 2006-11-28 Twenty years have passed since Coca-Cola sold part of its bottling business to the public. And Neville Isdell, Coca-Cola's chief executive, says the beverage giant has no intention of taking it back any time soon. Responding to a recent article in...
757 2006-11-28 The trial of the prominent class-action securities law firm Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman and two of its named partners has been scheduled for January 2008 so that defense lawyers will have time to prepare if additional charges are filed. The l...
758 2006-11-28 The NASD and the NYSE Group said Tuesday they intend to combine their regulatory operations, creating a single private overseer for all stock market activity in the United States. The new organization, which has not yet been named, is expected to ...
759 2006-11-28 Not everybody is in the tank for "Dreamgirls." Over at InContention, Kristopher Tapley opines that the film's "decision to hold fast to the electricity of the music leaves the entire affair at arm's length. I can't comprehend a serious filmgoer se...
760 2006-11-28 Delta Air Lines said Monday that it had agreed to give its retired pilots an additional $719 million in unsecured claims in its bankruptcy case to help them recoup losses from the termination of the pilot pension plan. The agreement, which has the...
761 2006-11-28 The Securities and Exchange Commission has scheduled a public meeting for Monday to consider two measures that would tighten rules governing hedge funds. One proposal to be considered would deal with the minimum net worth that an investor must pos...
762 2006-11-28 Two weeks after the Red Sox won the bidding to negotiate with the star Japanese pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Yankees came back to win the right to negotiate with the left-handed Japanese pitcher Kei Igawa, major league baseball officials announced tonight.

The Yankees bid a reported $26 million to beat out several other major league teams in the bidding, including the Mets, who bid between $15 and $19 million.

The Yankees will have until midnight Dec. 29 to work out a contract with Igawa. If a deal is not reached, Igawa will return to pitch for the Hanshin Tigers. Hanshin will only receive the money the Yankees bid if a deal is reached between the Yankees and Igawa.

The Red Sox bid $51.1 million to negotiate with Matsuzaka. They have about two-and-a-half weeks left to sign him.

In his eight-year career pitching for Hanshin in the Central League in Japan, Igawa was 86-60 with a 3.15 earned run average. He has led the Central League in strikeouts three times.

Last month, Igawa faced several major league players, including Mets David Wright and Jose Reyes, that had traveled to Japan to play in exhibition games.Igawa, pitching a month after his season ended, gave up a home run to Wright and walked six batters as the United States all-stars beat the Japanese team, 7-2. After the game, Wright said it was difficult to judge Igawa because he had not pitched in several weeks, but said Igawa's fastball was "average to above average." Reyes said he was impressed with Igawa's changeup and fastball.
763 2006-11-28 Hertz shares dipped on Monday below $15, the price for the initial offering of the rental car company less than two weeks ago. Shares of Hertz Global Holding fell 49 cents, or 3 percent, to $14.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. The company, based...
764 2006-11-28 British music giant EMI Group, whose roster of artists includes Janet Jackson, Coldplay, Robbie Williams and Goldfrapp, said Tuesday that it had been approached by a potential buyer. The announcement came after The Financial Times and other newspa...
765 2006-11-28 The Nasdaq Stock Market said Monday that it would raise about $5.9 billion to help finance its purchase of the London Stock Exchange Group and meet competition from rivals who are also expanding overseas. In a Securities and Exchange Commission fi...
766 2006-11-28 In this lesson, students explore averages, mean, mode, median, range and variance through collecting and analyzing their own classroom data on intelligence....
767 2006-11-28 Pfizer, the world’s largest drug company, said this afternoon that it would lay off almost 2,500 sales representatives, or 20 percent of its American sales force and 2 percent of its total work force.

The move may mark the beginning of a bigger retrenchment by Pfizer and the rest of the drug industry, which have sharply increased the size of their sales forces over the last decade, even as their research productivity has plunged. The huge sales forces have alienated doctors and contributed to high drug prices, drug industry analysts say.

In a statement announcing the layoffs, Pfizer said it would announce more "actions for transforming the company" in January. In July, Pfizer forced out its chief executive, Hank McKinnell, replacing him with Jeffrey B. Kindler, a former General Electric executive, who has pledged to review every aspect of the company’s operations.

Pfizer did not offer details of when employees would be let go or what severance packages they would be offered. Pfizer has 106,000 employees worldwide, including just under 12,000 American sales representatives.

Pfizer made its announcement after the stock market closed. Earlier, its stock ended regular trading up 8 cents, at $27.05. The shares rose to $27.30 in after-hours trading.
768 2006-11-28 “Whenever we don’t play as a group and whenever an individual gets out of line, I think they understand that I’ll make sure that they get back in line and we act and play as a unit,” Thomas said.

Thomas did not name Marbury, nor did he accuse him of anything in particular. But when asked if Marbury had been effective against the Bulls on Saturday, Thomas said, “No, he wasn’t.”

Marbury failed to attempt a field goal in 20 minutes Saturday, a first in his 11-year career. He appeared disinterested. Five nights earlier, Thomas benched Marbury and Steve Francis for most of the second half against Houston.

Each time, Marbury reacted with frustration and bewilderment. His tone had softened Monday afternoon, after a day off and a brief practice.

“The other night, he made the decision to not start me in the second half to get more scoring,” Marbury said. “And I wasn’t providing that, so he had the right to do that,” he added, referring to the Knicks’ 106-95 loss to the Bulls.

It was generally assumed that Marbury and Thomas would speak one on one about the issue, but Marbury said no discussion was necessary.

“We spoke about it today as a team,” Marbury said. “He really didn’t have to explain. I wasn’t getting the job done the other night. So now it’s up to me to basically go on the basketball court and perform the way I’m capable of performing.”

That seems to be the crux of the tension between Marbury and Thomas. It is, for the moment, a basketball issue and not a personal one. Since the first day of training camp, Thomas has preached sacrifice, and he has asked Francis and Marbury to give up the most.

Both players are used to dominating the ball and the scoring load. In Thomas’s motion offense, no player can do either. In 15 games, the Knicks have had seven different leading scorers.

At times, Francis and Marbury have reined in their offense too much, ceasing to become scoring threats or effective playmakers. Last week, Thomas called for more aggression and Marbury overdid it, resulting in a flurry of bad shots and turnovers in a 107-89 loss to Minnesota. Three nights later, Marbury swung to the opposite extreme, playing passively against Chicago.

“It’s never going to be a one-man show, but we do need his offense to win,” Thomas said. Marbury needs “adequate touches,” Thomas added, “but it definitely has to come in the framework of what we do.”

After Monday’s practice, Marbury said he better understood what Thomas wanted and how to find the proper place and time to attack. Asked if he had that understanding before, Marbury said: “That’s over with. Right now, we’re moving forward.”

“I haven’t been giving what I can give to the team,” said Marbury, who is on a pace for career lows in scoring average (10.1 points), assists (4.5) and field-goal percentage (.403). “I just have to continue to play as hard as I can, move the ball like coach wants the ball to be moved and still look for my shot and still make plays.”

It is a delicate balance. The Knicks’ offense has also changed under Thomas, who is stressing Eddy Curry as the first option.

“It’s an adjustment, because I’m used to dominating the ball, as far as going to the basket, attacking,” Marbury said. “Now it’s more of a dumping it down and moving around and getting to open spots. I still have the freedom to attack, but now I know where I can assert myself at.”

Thomas provided little insight into what he might have told Marbury or his team. “It’s not about Stephon,” he said. “It’s about the Knicks.”

Then Thomas, speaking in his best alpha-male tone, said: “If there was any doubt in any player’s mind, I’m sure that’s clear and been cleared up. And I’ll make sure to keep reinforcing what I want. And make no mistake about it, if I don’t get exactly what I want, then there will be consequences for it.”
769 2006-11-28 Survivors who spoke to grief counselors from the Ozark Center of Joplin said they had heard a loud bang or an explosion that filled corridors with smoke and sent residents jumping out their windows to escape. Some said the staff member who died had been trying to help the injured out of the building. Four bodies were recovered from the ruins; the six other people died later.

Governor Blunt, who rushed to the scene and was briefed by investigators, said: “We’re certainly not ruling out the fact that this might have been started by someone. It’s important that we explore this, and we’re not ruling out a criminal investigation. Indeed, we are treating this as if it was a crime scene.”

The fire “is being treated as suspicious,” he added.

Mr. Cole, the fire marshal, said that a fire had broken out in a resident’s room of the group home on Saturday but that investigators did not yet know whether it was related to the deadly blaze.

Witnesses and officials said that the fire had broken out at the north end of the building near a gazebo and that five neighbors had made almost simultaneous emergency calls to the fire department at 1:05 a.m.

Mike Bickford, an Anderson police officer who was one of the first on the scene, said he arrived within five minutes to see the north end of the building engulfed in flames.

“We entered at the kitchen area,” Officer Bickford said. “I went in as far as I could go. It was filled with smoke and very hot. Me and six other guys were pulling people out as quickly as we could. When I went in it was like going into a furnace. I was walking under flames, but the roof had not collapsed yet.”

Lawrence Henson, of nearby Pineville, Mo., said his 55-year-old sister, Patricia Henson, a resident at the home, died of smoke inhalation. Mr. Henson said she had been in the home because pneumonia and scarlet fever she had had as a child had caused brain damage.

“Things were not as good as they could have been in this facility, I can say that,” Mr. Henson said in a telephone interview. “I think they were understaffed at times, but she was happy there.”

He added, “It always bugged me that the windows were so small; if you had a fire and the windows were the only way out, most of them could not have gotten out that way.”

He said that he had never seen or heard of anyone being physically restrained but that he could not imagine that the mentally ill residents were capable of getting out on their own.

Steven Spears, who lives next door and whose parents built the grocery in the 1950s that became the group home in the 1970s, said he had seen the fire on one of his house security cameras.

“I like to keep watch to see if anything’s going on at the guest house,” Mr. Spears said. “I was watching TV when I noticed on the monitor flames bursting out of the front door. I was one of the first three people on the scene.”

He said he had seen about a dozen residents escape barefoot in bathrobes and nightclothes while he was helping to push away a small white car that had started to catch fire. “One resident kicked in the kitchen door, and we both had intentions of going in until I saw him back off,” Mr. Spears said. “There was just too much smoke, and it was too hot.”

Another neighbor, Betty Wood, said her teenage daughter had seen the fire and called 911, handing the phone to her mother. “My daughter yelled at me and said she could hear a woman screaming,” Ms. Wood said. “I had heard it, but I thought it was on television.”

She said she had told the emergency dispatcher, “We need everything you got over here.” She said she had seen flames as high as 30 feet and had rushed out with blankets for those who had escaped.

The home is under the supervision of the Missouri Department of Mental Health, which licenses the care program, and the Department of Health and Senior Services, which monitors the building and its conditions. Inspection records posted online described repair deficiencies and other violations but “none related to fire safety,” said Nanci Gonder, a spokeswoman for health and senior services.
770 2006-11-28 Nevertheless, the company flooded the market with too many planes and ultimately had to sell them at cut-rate prices. Boeing’s write-offs came to more than $4 billion in 1997 and 1998, executives were sent packing and 20,000 workers lost their jobs. Boeing’s stock plunged, as did profits, and many wondered whether Boeing would ever regain its footing.

Today, having learned its lesson, Boeing is adopting a polar opposite strategy as it faces a new wave of orders that, if not managed right, could swamp the company again.

In September, Boeing’s new head of commercial aviation pressed his message of moderation to the Wings Club, an industry group that had gathered in Seattle.

“In this hot market, it would be easy to be consumed with the desire to sell anything to people walking through the door who want to buy and push our production system to the point where you could break it,” said Scott E. Carson, the chief executive of Boeing Commercial Aviation. “It’s much harder to say, ‘I’m sorry, we’re sold out.’ ”

Yet that is exactly what Boeing is telling customers these days — not just Southwest — as it slowly increases its airplane production while holding firm on its sticker prices. Demand is jumping, especially now that Airbus has had design and delivery problems with its two new offerings: the midsize A350 and the superjumbo A380.

At Boeing, for instance, orders for its 787, nicknamed the Dreamliner — which will not hit the market until 2008 — are so strong that it is sold out for four years, and the earliest a new customer can get a plane is 2013. In all, 36 customers have ordered 455 planes. The venerable 747, which was headed to the end of the line, has. meanwhile, received a reprieve as airlines have shown renewed interest in the plane. Other popular jets have a two-year waiting list.

Boeing’s stock, which traded around $30 a share in aviation slump after 9/11, has risen sharply, and closed Monday at $87.37. Boeing earned $492 million in 2002; it earned $2.57 billion in 2005.

Mr. Carson is a 33-year Boeing veteran who helped dig the company out of the 1997-98 crisis. He succeeded Alan R. Mulally as head of the commercial aviation unit in September when Mr. Mulally, in a surprise move, left to become chief executive at Ford.

Now that Mr. Carson is in charge, he vows to make restraint a virtue — and a path to fatter profit margins.

“Frankly, we are much more disciplined than in 1997 and 1998,” Mr. Carson said in a recent interview. “The message is, Don’t get ahead of yourself; don’t go crazy about how we ramp up.”

He added: “We have to communicate that openly with customers and suppliers to be sure they understand why this is good for the industry. The role of the industry leader is to demonstrate discipline and restraint in the marketplace.”

To industry analysts, this is a 180-degree turn from the last boom, when Boeing responded to Airbus’s new competitive threat by trying to sell so many planes that Airbus would be overwhelmed.

“It was the Khrushchev approach,” Mr. Greenslet said. “Remember when he was at the United Nations and was banging his shoe and saying, ‘We will bury you.’ It was the bury-you strategy and it did more damage to Boeing than the competition.”

The fallout from that period is still fresh in the memories of today’s Boeing leadership.

“All the guys at Boeing saw their bosses get fired the last time,” said Troy Lahr, an aviation analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, a Baltimore brokerage firm. This time, the company has sharply cut the number of products it builds. In the late 1990s, Boeing customers had a choice of eight planes, including the MD series of aircraft it inherited from its merger with McDonnell-Douglas.

Today, it builds only the 737, the 767, 777 and the giant 747. The 787 Dreamliner is still in the development phase.

Boeing today has only about half the suppliers that it did a decade ago and has shifted more of the risk — and cost — of developing and building the airplanes to them.

Major parts of Boeing planes are built by suppliers in Japan and Italy and come to the Seattle area, where the commercial aviation division is based, only for final assembly. In the United States, its airframe manufacturing operation in Wichita, Kan., was sold to investors and now works for Boeing as a subcontractor, absorbing costs and risks Boeing once shouldered.

“The world has changed, and Boeing has changed with it,” said Michael Boyd, president of the Boyd Group, an aviation consulting firm in Evergreen, Colo. “They’ve offloaded a lot of production. They are farming out everything to others so they don’t have to build it. ”

That future is perhaps best represented by the 787 Dreamliner. It will be the first commercial jet made in large part from composite plastics, rather than aluminum.

The wings are made by Mitsubishi, Kawasaki and Fuji Heavy Industries, all of Japan. Italian companies are building part of the fuselage, and Boeing has contracted with its former Wichita operation, now called Spirit AeroSystems, to make other parts of the fuselage.

These parts will be shipped to Seattle — many on a 747. For instance, barrel sections of fuselage that are made in Italy will be flown to a subcontractor, Vought Aircraft Industries, in South Carolina. There, they will be connected with parts of the wing from Japan, stuffed with wires, tubes and other systems and tested and painted. Once that is done, the mostly finished plane will be shipped, again on a 747, to Boeing’s plant in Everett, Wash., for final assembly.

“All Boeing does is design it and glue it together,” said Mr. Boyd, the aviation consultant.

If there is a downturn in orders, Boeing does not have to face the challenge of what to do with a permanent, unionized work force. It also means that fewer workers are needed in Everett since less of the work is done there.

Not everyone is happy with this outsourcing — especially Boeing’s union work force, which numbers about 20,000.

“We have an issue with the vendors and the suppliers,” said Connie Kelliher, spokeswoman for Machinist Union District 751, the largest union at Boeing. “We are the smartest, most skilled work force in the world. If there is a problem with vendors, our workers make it right. Boeing is very public about wanting its suppliers to share the risk. But they’ve let go of core competencies. If we are good enough to bail them out, we are good enough to have the work left in our hands.”

All this outsourcing is not without business risk, as well. “The danger is that your supplier can become someone else’s supplier,” Mr. Boyd said. “There is no stopping Spirit or Vought from doing business for Airbus. When Boeing owned all the factories, it only did stuff for Boeing.”

At the moment, Boeing is taking small steps to increase the number of planes it is building. It has stepped up the pace by creating moving assembly lines for the 777 and the 737, something it did not do before and a move that enables the planes to be built more efficiently and quickly.

Boeing does not disclose how many planes it builds a month, but Mr. Lahr of Stifel Nicolaus estimated that by 2008, Boeing would add 3 planes to its monthly production of 28 737s, it would build one more 777 to reach eight a month and, at some point, would add three more to an anticipated monthly run of seven 787s.

One of the biggest challenges ahead for Boeing is ensuring that the 787 stays on schedule and that all its technological innovations are a success. In the long term, it hopes to raise its monthly production slowly.

“The real challenge, once you work out the 787 design, is that Boeing wants to move at a rate that is unprecedented for a widebody plane,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group, a consulting firm in northern Virginia. “No one has built more than 7 widebodies a month, and they are talking about 10 a month.”

Boeing says, however, that increased outsourcing and the more efficient moving assembly lines will enable it to pick up the pace without risking some of the problems it had in 1997 and 1998. In addition, for at least the first two years, there will be no increases in the anticipated 787 production rates, no matter how strong the demand, Boeing said.

In a media conference call this month, Michael Bair, general manager of the 787 program, said there was no danger Boeing would fall into its old trap.

“We are being very, very careful in the front end of the program that we don’t get greedy and overcommit before we have all the potential kinks worked out in the production systems,” Mr. Bair said. “So we have not touched the first two years of production in terms of what our ramp up is going to be — and we won’t.”
771 2006-11-28 In trading yesterday, the S.& P. fell 1.36 percent, to 1,381.90. The Dow industrials shed 1.29 percent, to 12,121.71. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index fell 2.21 percent, closing at 2,405.92. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks lost 2.55 percent, ending at 772.10. On the New York Stock Exchange, declining issues outpaced those advancing by more than 4 to 1. Volume was moderate, totaling a little under 1.6 billion shares.

Retailers were among the biggest losers yesterday, dragged down by Wal-Mart, which fell $1.29, to $46.81, and whose troubles reverberated through the market. Wal-Mart said over the weekend that its sales in November would probably fall 0.1 percent, which would be the first monthly decline for the company in 10 years. Wal-Mart’s woes weighed on the share prices of other leading retailers, with Federated Department Stores, Target, Circuit City and Gap all slipping.

Despite signs that retailers on average fared well during the first weekend of the holiday shopping season, the weak results from Wal-Mart raised questions about how much consumers might spend this season.

“The question has always been whether the consumer would be able to hang in,” said Stuart Schweitzer, a global markets strategist with J. P. Morgan Asset and Wealth Management. “If Wal-Mart’s news is indicative of the potential for broader disappointment, that is worrisome.”

With the economy slowing — the gross domestic product expanded at a 5.6 percent annual pace in the first quarter but only 1.6 percent in the third — strong consumer spending is needed to help growth from becoming sluggish. But as yesterday’s fall in the stock market suggested, there is still considerable uncertainty about how severe a slowdown could become.

That uncertainty has helped to strain the value of the dollar in recent days. On Friday, the dollar fell to its lowest point in a year and a half against the euro. It continued its decline yesterday, as concerns by some that the United States economy might falter while economies in Europe grew stronger pushed up the euro to $1.3128 from $1.3079 on Friday. The United States Dollar Index, which shows its strength against a basket of currencies, fell to 83.25 yesterday, the lowest since March 2005. In February 2002, the index was at 120.

A weak dollar threatens to depress stocks further. As other currencies gain against the dollar, American stocks would become less attractive to foreign investors.

The drop in the dollar on Friday came on a light and shortened holiday trading day for Wall Street. Analysts said the losses in the stock market yesterday were in part an acceleration of declines that began Friday after the dollar tumbled.

But other factors seemed to be contributing to the drop, including the apparent desire of some investors to cash out their gains. Given the recent market ascent — before yesterday, the S.& P. 500 had risen 14 percent since hitting a low for the year in June — some degree of correction was inevitable, specialists said.

Henry McVey, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, said: “You’ve been up 131 days without a 1 percent correction. That’s just unnatural for equity markets.”

Thinner-than-expected retail profit this holiday season is one possibility that could impede gains in the stock market, some said. Retailers like Wal-Mart are aggressively discounting their merchandise, which could cut into profits. “It’s not just a concern about the consumer,” Mr. Schweitzer said, “but a concern that in order to keep consumers in the game, prices have to come down.”

Consumer spending has held up as the economy slowed. But it has hardly advanced at a pace that would offset the effects of a faltering housing market. Furthermore, lower gasoline prices may not have translated yet into a significant spending boost, as retailers had hoped.

In addition, investors in the months ahead are likely to find that a major driver of the market’s recent gains — surging corporate profits — will be less of a factor.

Many who watch the economy expect corporate profits to remain strong, but not nearly as strong as in recent quarters.

“We’ve had four and a half years of stellar earnings growth,” Mr. Silverblatt said. “But if you’re used to that double-digit growth, that’s not what you’re going to see.”

If corporate profits fall, stock prices could be expected to suffer. Yet few experts seem to think that the market’s drop yesterday foretold something severe.

“I think growth is decelerating, not falling off a cliff,” Mr. McVey said. “And despite a lot of America’s issues and the dollar, our capital markets are still among the deepest and most liquid in the world.”

In bond trading yesterday, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, to 100 24/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.53 percent from 4.55 percent. Here are the results of yesterday’s auctions of three- and six-month Treasury bills:
772 2006-11-28 And she captured that many votes in a year of record Democratic gains, when the party had two political superstars at the top of the ticket: Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who was elected governor, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Even the scandal-tainted Democrat running to keep his job as comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, coasted to victory.

Ms. Pirro’s supporters — who mention her as a future candidate for Congress if not another statewide office — contend that her vote totals were higher than many of the polls had projected. Indeed, she won 37 of the state’s 62 counties in the general election, though those were by and large heavily Republican areas.

Democratic officials and political consultants, however, were more skeptical about Ms. Pirro’s political future. Some Democrats suggested that the mere discussion of her as a future candidate reflects the dire position Republicans find themselves in after this month’s election, when Democratic candidates were the top vote-getters in even the most Republican pockets of the state.

“It’s safe to say that Jeanine Pirro was a very dim bright spot in a political black hole for the Republican Party in 2006,” said Evan Stavisky, a political consultant who works with Democratic candidates throughout the state. “From the first day she became a candidate for Senate until the closing days, her campaign found new and improved ways to blow itself up.”

Mr. Stavisky added: “If she is a bright spot, it’s more of a reflection of the condition of the Republican Party. In fact, the Republican Party in New York is clearly in disarray and has very few things to point to with any degree of pride.”

Troubles for Ms. Pirro, the former Westchester County district attorney, began last year when she gave up on her planned challenge to Senator Clinton, deciding instead to run for attorney general. During a news conference announcing her candidacy, Ms. Pirro was left nearly speechless for 32 seconds because a page of her speech was missing.

Ms. Pirro, 55, declined to be interviewed for this article, and she said nothing during or after the campaign about her political plans. Nonetheless, many Republican officials are not tossing her aside.

“She definitely has a future in state politics,” said Harry Withers, the chairman of the Suffolk County Republican Party. “She is a great communicator, and she talked about issues that got people’s attention. She has great energy, and I think she should run again.”

Mr. Withers said that the news coverage of the investigations about possible wiretapping as well as her marital problems with her husband, Albert J. Pirro Jr., would not be an issue in any future campaign.

“I don’t think it was even a factor in this year’s race,” he said. “Whatever her domestic problems were, she isn’t the only one with domestic problems. I think people will judge her on her experience.”

Some Republican strategists say that in a year of big Democratic gains, Ms. Pirro showed a knack for turning out core Republican voters, and credit her strategy in the final weeks of the campaign of focusing on those areas where the party’s candidates often fare well among voters.

In the last three weeks of the campaign, Ms. Pirro relentlessly hit Republican strongholds upstate and in the New York City suburbs in an effort to energize her party’s voters.

“She was outspent, and she needed a year where the Iraq war will not be the dominant thing on people’s mind,” Mr. Withers said. “And that won’t be the case in another election year. She will still be viable.”
773 2006-11-28 The Nasdaq Stock Market said yesterday that it would raise about $5.9 billion to help finance its purchase of the London Stock Exchange Group and meet competition from rivals who are also expanding overseas.

In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Nasdaq said it would borrow as much as $5.1 billion from Bank of America and Dresdner Kleinwort and would sell a maximum of $775 million in preferred shares. As part of the agreement, Nasdaq also refinanced $1.3 billion of its existing debt.

Nasdaq is appealing directly to shareholders after the London exchange rejected two offers in eight months. Nasdaq has already spent £854 million ($1.65 billion) for a 28.75 percent stake, and on Nov. 20 it bid 1,243 pence a share for the rest. Nasdaq’s offer values the entire London exchange at about $5.2 billion.

Nasdaq is under pressure to expand overseas as its bigger rival, the NYSE Group, closes in on a plan to create the first trans-Atlantic equity market with its $15.2 billion acquisition of Euronext, based in Paris.

Shares of Nasdaq fell 63 cents, to $40, in New York.
774 2006-11-28 If the Palestinians can form a new unity government that satisfies international standards and release a captured Israeli soldier, Mr. Olmert said, he will respond by immediately meeting with Mr. Abbas, releasing hundreds of Palestinian prisoners, reducing checkpoints and moving toward a further withdrawal of Israeli settlers from the occupied West Bank.

He promised that Israel would also then release to the Palestinian Authority the $50 million a month in taxes and duties that Israel has collected for the Palestinians but withheld — more than $500 million so far this year — contending that Hamas, the governing Palestinian faction, is a terrorist group.

But those steps, essentially confidence-rebuilding measures, are far short of serious negotiations to end a conflict that is nearly 60 years old.

One of the new elements in the speech was more subtle, an Israeli official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the content of the speech publicly. He pointed to Mr. Olmert’s praise for moderate Arab countries like Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Persian Gulf states that “strive for a peaceful solution to the conflict between us.” Mr. Olmert said he found parts of a 2002 Saudi peace initiative to be “positive,” the first time an Israeli leader has done so, the official said.

The Saudi initiative, supported by the Arab League, offered normal relations with Israel in return for an Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 boundaries, the establishment of a Palestinian state and a just solution to the issue of Palestinian refugees. Mr. Olmert has said that Israel will not return to the borders predating the 1967 Arab-Israeli war but that it is willing to negotiate land swaps.

“I intend to invest efforts in order to advance the connection” with the moderate Arab states, he said, “and strengthen their support of direct bilateral negotiations between us and the Palestinians.”

Palestinian reaction was cautious. Hamas, which does not recognize Israel’s right to exist, was unenthusiastic. A spokesman for the Hamas-led Palestinian government, Ghazi Hamad, said Mr. Olmert had not specified borders and was not willing to release enough prisoners. Saeb Erekat, a Palestinian negotiator and aide to Mr. Abbas, said that “most important is to sustain the cease-fire” and extend it to the West Bank “in the next few days.” That would “pave the way for a political horizon,” he said.

Within hours of Mr. Olmert’s address, delivered in the Negev town of Sde Boker at a commemoration for Israel’s first prime minister, David Ben-Gurion, Palestinian militants in Gaza fired two rockets toward Sderot in Israel, despite the cease-fire. One landed in Gaza, the other in the Sderot cemetery. There were no reported casualties.

Responsibility for the rocket fire was taken by Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, a group that belongs to Mr. Abbas’s Fatah faction. Mr. Erekat asked for patience.

The militants said they were responding to the killing of two Palestinians and the arrest of 15 in an Israeli raid on Monday in the West Bank, where a truce is not in effect and where Israel discovered a bomb factory on Sunday.

One of the dead was a militant commander, Abdel Razek Bahar, 22, of the Popular Resistance Committees; the other was a passer-by, Fatma Nezal, a 55-year-old woman, Palestinians said. The Israeli Army said its forces had been fired on and were returning fire.

Mr. Olmert argued to the Palestinians that the election of Hamas and “the uncompromising extremism of your terror organizations” have not brought Palestinians closer “to achieving the goal that I’m convinced many of you share to establish a Palestinian state.” Hamas argues that Israel does not make concessions through negotiations, but only when faced with “resistance to occupation.”

Mr. Olmert said that “in the framework” of talks and the “road map,” an internationally backed outline for peace negotiations, Israel “will agree to the evacuation of many territories and communities we have created,” a reference to Jewish settlements built since 1967 in the West Bank, which are regarded as illegal by much of the world. Mr. Olmert was elected in March on a program to carry out a withdrawal of up to 80,000 Israeli settlers from part of the West Bank.

But with the violence in and around Gaza and the war last summer with Hezbollah in Lebanon, the idea of unilateral withdrawals has been sharply criticized in Israel, and Mr. Olmert shelved his plan. He seems to be trying to revive the idea, but in the context of talks with Mr. Abbas.
775 2006-11-28 Democrats have since renewed their calls for a full Justice Department investigation, accusing the Bush administration of stonewalling. On Monday, Mr. Fine informed members of Congress in a letter that he was opening an investigation after the White House had agreed to approve the necessary security clearances for members of his staff.

The review will have a somewhat different scope than the investigation sought and rejected last year. The review, Mr. Fine said in his letter, will examine the controls in place at the Justice Department for the eavesdropping, the way information developed from it was used, and the department’s “compliance with legal requirements governing the program.”

Officials said the investigation could examine the legal authority given to the Justice Department under a secret executive order first signed by Mr. Bush in October 2001, as well as the laws and procedures governing intelligence wiretaps under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which was approved by Congress in 1978 after the Watergate scandal and required a special court warrant for wiretaps on Americans. The review could also look at how intelligence generated by the eavesdropping was used to seek traditional court warrants and to pursue criminal cases, the officials said.

An official with the inspector general’s office, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the office’s position had not changed since it declined to review the program in January. “It was beyond our jurisdiction, and it still is beyond our jurisdiction, to review the legality or the constitutionality of the program, and that’s not what we’re doing here,” the official said.

Congressional Democrats said they were eager to see what areas the inspector general would decide to review. Mr. Fine has a reputation as a strong and independent watchdog within the Justice Department, and he has issued a number of highly critical reports about the department’s policies and practices since the terrorism attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Still, several Democrats suggested that the timing of his review might be tied to their takeover of Congress in this month’s midterm elections as a way to pre-empt expected Democratic investigations of the N.S.A. program.

“It’s hard to ignore the fact that there is a correlation in the timing,” said Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who helped lead the push for a Justice Department investigation.

“I don’t know why the White House would stonewall for a year, then within a month of the election, agree to these security clearances” for the inspector general’s staff, Ms. Lofgren said in an interview. “We don’t know what it means, but we’ll find out.”

Mr. Fine said in his letter to members of Congress that he decided to open his investigation after “conducting initial inquiries” into the eavesdropping operation. That initial inquiry was limited to Mr. Fine and two other supervisors in his office who had security clearance to review the program, but it will now be widened to include investigators and staff members, officials said.

The Justice Department said it welcomed the inspector general’s investigation. “We expect that this review will assist Justice Department personnel in ensuring that the department’s activities comply with the legal requirements that govern the operation of the program,” said Brian Roehrkasse, a department spokesman.

The administration has strongly defended the legality of the eavesdropping program, but a federal judge in Detroit ruled in August that the program was illegal and unconstitutional. The Bush administration is now appealing that decision.
776 2006-11-28 The Goldman Sachs Group, the investment bank, said yesterday that Scott B. Kapnick, a co-head of investment banking who was replaced as co-chief executive of Goldman Sachs International in London last July, would leave the firm after 21 years.

Mr. Kapnick, 47, will depart at the end of the year, according to a memo signed by Goldman’s chairman and chief executive Lloyd C. Blankfein and co-presidents Gary D. Cohn and Jon Winkelried. The memo’s contents were confirmed by Lucas van Praag, a Goldman spokesman in London.

Goldman, the most profitable investment bank in Wall Street history, filled its top ranks with former trading executives in June when Mr. Blankfein succeeded Henry M. Paulson Jr. as chief; Mr. Blankfein named Mr. Cohn and Mr. Winkelried as his deputies.

A month later, Mr. Blankfein removed Mr. Kapnick, and replaced him with Richard J. Gnodde, former president of Goldman Sachs Asia.
777 2006-11-28 Delta Air Lines said yesterday that it had agreed to give its retired pilots an additional $719 million in unsecured claims in its bankruptcy case to help them recoup losses from the termination of the pilot pension plan.

The agreement, which has the support of Delta’s committee of unsecured creditors, would increase the retired pilots’ unsecured claims to roughly $800 million if approved by Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.

What retired pilots will actually receive from those claims will not be known until Delta emerges from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection because unsecured creditors generally receive only a fraction of what they are owed.

The retired pilots’ claims are separate from a $2.1 billion unsecured claim Delta’s active pilots negotiated as part of a concessions agreement in April, a Delta spokeswoman, Betsy Talton, said.

The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents Delta’s active pilots, is a member of the creditors’ committee.

Delta has received court approval to terminate its pilots’ pension plan. Once the plan is terminated, the federal government’s pension insurance agency will take it over and pay Delta pilots who retire a benefit that in many cases will be less than what the pilots expected. Pilots who are already retired also stand to lose some benefits.
778 2006-11-28 “He pulled a Bobby Cremins,” Cremins said, joking about his own reversal in 1993. At the time, he had accepted the coaching job at his alma mater, South Carolina, before backing out to remain at Georgia Tech.

That was back in Cremins’s heyday at Georgia Tech, where he won three Atlantic Coast Conference championships and took the Yellow Jackets from the bottom of the conference to the Final Four in 1990. In 19 years there, Cremins had become the white-haired, mop-top image of the program.

But by 2000, having gone to one N.C.A.A. tournament in his previous seven seasons, Cremins resigned.

At the time, he planned to make it a short break.

“When I first left Georgia Tech, I thought I would get back in within a year,” Cremins said. “That was my original game plan. I was very young. I was 53. But I was burned out. The ending was a little tough because our teams weren’t playing really well. And I had a lot on my mind. We had lost our edge and I knew it. I knew it was time to go.”

A year later, there were some knocks on the door but nothing that inspired Cremins to leave the beaches and golf courses of Hilton Head. And then the calls stopped coming. Cremins kept busy as a part-time broadcaster. He worked at basketball camps, was a frequent competitor in charity golf tournaments and was writing a book.

As the years passed, Cremins felt his chance to return to coaching was slipping away.

“I really started to believe I was done,” said Cremins, a Bronx native who never left the South after playing for the legendary Frank McGuire at South Carolina.

That is when Charleston, snubbed by Marshall, reopened its coaching search and Cremins sent word through friends that he was interested. University officials listened.

“He came up and spoke to the committee and honestly just kind of blew everybody away,” the athletic director, Jerry Baker, said. “It was very, very clear that he had the desire, the energy, the zest again to get back into coaching, and when he turns that on, it’s hard not to be impressed. He’s a very energetic, positive person.

“We’re sitting there going, ‘We have a chance to get a national coach of the year that’s won A.C.C. championships, been to the Final Four.’ You ask yourself the question, why wouldn’t you want him? And you can’t come up with a good answer for that except we’ve got a chance to get Bobby Cremins.”

That quickly, it was done. Cremins was back.

But back to what? Georgia Tech and the A.C.C. are more successful and prestigious than College of Charleston and the Southern Conference. Cremins has gone from charter flights to buses.

Still, he jumped at the chance. Cremins said he had lost a close friend in Hilton Head to cancer just days before Marshall backed out. At that point, he knew it was time to put down the golf clubs.

“I just felt like it was now or never,” Cremins said. “I just decided the heck with it. It’s time to do something else.

“You never know if what you’re doing is the right thing. But for me, I knew I had to do something different. This is my passion. Basketball is my passion. It’s my love. Without basketball, without having basketball in my life, I probably would have wound up in New York either a cop or fireman, or a gangster.”

Instead, he is a salesman. Cremins has shaken every outstretched hand in Charleston since accepting the job, a public-relations boon for a program that has seen sagging attendance and community relations under Herrion despite his 80-38 record.

Cremins sold himself to the players, too.

“I was real worried,” the sophomore forward Jermaine Johnson said as he watched from his home in California as Herrion was fired and Marshall accepted and then declined. “At that point, I half made up my decision. I was like, you know what, I’m not coming back. This place is a little too hectic, a little too weird for me.”

Johnson said he decided to return after Cremins flew to California to meet with him and his mother last summer.

Cremins has been on the go almost every day since then. He has been so busy that he said he had been back to Hilton Head just once since accepting the job.

“The bottom line is, I’m back in the rat race,” Cremins said. “I’m back in the mix.”
779 2006-11-28 BEIJING, Nov. 27 — A Chinese legal expert who exposed abuses in the country’s population control policies underwent a rare second trial on Monday, but his lawyers accused local authorities of preventing them from mounting a vigorous defense.

The legal expert, Chen Guangcheng, was sentenced in August to four years and three months by a county court in Shandong Province for destroying property and organizing a mob to disrupt traffic.

A higher court later quashed the verdict and ordered a new trial, which some supporters of Mr. Chen cited as an important breakthrough for China’s Communist Party-run judicial system.

But the one-day trial, held in the same county court, ended in acrimony. Several of Mr. Chen’s most important witnesses were prevented from attending the hearing by thugs who had the backing of local officials, his lawyers said, and the judges in the case declined to grant a defense request to delay the trial.

The lawyers said the witnesses, residents of Mr. Chen’s village, were prepared to testify that the police had tortured them to provide false evidence against Mr. Chen. But three witnesses were detained before the trial began and none of them could attend the hearing, the lawyers said.
780 2006-11-28 Statistics suggest that something strange was occurring in those years. From 1980 to 2003, the prevalence of asthma in children rose to 5.8 percent from 3.6 percent, an increase of about 60 percent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Other estimates from the disease centers show an even bigger increase in the asthmas rates for younger children: a 160 percent jump in those younger than 5 from 1980 to 1994. But changes in data collection starting in 1997 make it hard to compare the figures before and after that year. More recently, the rates seem to have leveled off in the United States and in other Western countries. In any case, about 20 million people in the United States have asthma today, including at least 6 million children, and 5,000 people a year die from it. Children in the inner cities seem to be especially hard hit, with exposure to cockroaches and diesel fumes suspected as the culprits. But the cause is not known for sure.

Worldwide, the disease has also increased. From 1985 to 2001, the prevalence rose 100 percent. About 300 million people have asthma, 255,000 die from it, and deaths could increase by 20 percent over the next 10 years, according to the World Health Organization. The problem is especially severe in developing countries, which are least able to provide the long-term intensive treatment that asthma requires.

Some of the apparent increases may not be real, but may have occurred because doctors got better at making the diagnosis. But increased reporting seems unlikely to account for all the new cases. Theories come and go, and when you come right down to it, no one really knows why some people develop asthma and others don’t.

In “The Asthma Epidemic,” an article published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine, doctors tried to sort out various theories about the causes of asthma and explain why rates have risen. But there are no clear-cut answers.

Like other chronic diseases, asthma is probably caused by multiple genes and environmental exposures, and it can have quite different causes in different people. About half the cases are thought to stem from allergies and the rest from other problems that can irritate and inflame the airways, causing them to close.

Genetic changes in the population cannot explain the increasing rates, though, because such changes occur too slowly to account for the rapid increases in asthma, the authors said, suggesting that environmental factors are more likely candidates. But what has changed enough in the environment to explain spiking asthma rates?

The authors of the article, from University Children’s Hospital in Munich, review many study findings. They report that one clear risk factor is secondhand tobacco smoke. Exposure to it does increase asthma risk in infants and small children. But how would that explain the increases, when over all, parents today smoke less than previous generations?

People frequently blame air pollution for causing asthma, but its role is not entirely clear. Pollution does makes asthma worse in people who already have the disease, but it’s not known whether pollution also makes asthma develop in the first place. And in any case, air pollution in the United States has decreased in the last few decades. Living in a place with high vehicle exhaust may make asthma worse, but the evidence is “relatively weak,” the researchers report.

Dust mites, microscopic insects that live in bedding and furniture, were long blamed for causing asthma to develop in infants and small children and have led to a booming industry of mattress covers, air filters and guilt-ridden parents tethered to dust mops and vacuum cleaners. But recent studies have questioned the connection. Once children have asthma, though, the mites and their droppings may make the symptoms worse.

Cat dander has become a complete puzzle, with some studies finding that exposure early in life leads to asthma, and others saying it protects against asthma. At this point, nobody knows which study to believe, but most experts agree that when people already have asthma, being around cats can make it worse.

Under some of the theories, I should have had the world’s worst asthma. Clearly, I had allergic tendencies, and the experts would have shuddered at my environment. I grew up in New York in a small apartment with parents who were heavy smokers, on a busy street with trucks rumbling by and a bus stop in front of the door. Buildings all around us burned coal. At times, we had a dog, a cat, parakeets and, briefly, a duck. It’s amazing that the pets survived the smoke. My mother was a decent housekeeper, but she wouldn’t have won any prizes. I never wheezed. Go figure.

Obesity and asthma have also been linked in some studies, but the link, if it exists, is not understood. Researchers say it is simply not a matter of asthmatic children growing fat because they cannot exercise. The weight gain can be first.

Nutrition is another mystery. Studies of fruits, vegetables, cereals, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants have been inconclusive, and little is known about the effects from what pregnant women eat. Experiments in which pregnant women avoided cow’s milk and eggs in hopes of preventing asthma in their infants did not work, and breast-feeding doesn’t prevent the disease, either.

One theory that has received attention recently is the “hygiene hypothesis,” the idea that children today are raised in homes that are too clean and that asthma is somehow caused by the lack of exposure to infections and bits of microbes early in life. Under this theory, germs are supposed to help the immune system develop normally, and without them the system may overreact to other substances in the environment, producing allergies and asthma.

There is some evidence to support the idea. Studies find that children raised on farms are less prone than others to asthma, maybe because they are exposed to plenty of microbes in barns and stables. But the connection is still not fully understood, and some viral infections clearly make asthma worse.

A related idea is that the increased use of antibiotics in recent decades contributes to asthma by changing the type of the bacteria that live in the gut. But that has not been proved. Some researchers have suggested that acetaminophen, used to treat pain and fever, may be linked to asthma. Its use increased in the 1980s, after pediatricians declared aspirin unsafe for children. But that theory has not been proved, either.

Ultimately, this new list of the usual suspects still doesn’t solve the mystery.

Gradually, my sons’ asthma diminished. Both became track and cross-country runners in high school, and now, as they have gone on to college and graduate school, the disease is rarely a problem. But it was a worry that hung over us for a long time.

As for the food allergies, we choose to assume that they last for life. The only way to find out for sure is called a “challenge,” in which you eat the risky food with doctors standing by to revive you in case it turns out that, gee, you’re still allergic to it after all. Somehow, I don’t think we’ll be signing up for that.

My sons have adrenaline kits to treat a severe reaction. Neither has ever needed it, and I know they don’t carry it around the way they’re supposed to when they go to restaurants.

Needless to say, I wish none of this had ever happened. But, based on what’s now known, could I have done anything to prevent it? Was it bad that we had cats when our children were born or that we later gave them away? Asthma transformed me and my husband from rather casual housekeepers into mop-wielding fanatics. I’m not sure it helped.

Suppose I had recognized that my own allergies meant that my children would be at risk. Would it have helped if I had then avoided eating nuts, peanuts and shellfish while I was pregnant and breast-feeding? I don’t think the answer is clear.

Similarly, I’m not convinced that it would have made a difference if I had been more cautious and methodical about introducing new foods in their first few years, though allergy groups recommend it. The only thing that seemed to do them any good was asthma medicine, and lots of it.

Because children who have even one parent with allergies and asthma have an increased risk of developing the same problems, it would be great if somebody could figure out a way to lower that risk in time to help my sons and the millions of other young people who were also caught in the asthma wave, when they decide to become parents. I am hoping, but I know it may be a problem with many solutions — or none.
781 2006-11-28 It is unfortunately quite true that many public universities are becoming increasingly semiprivate. The editorial portrays this as an elitist move, but in fact publicly financed universities have been forced into this situation because of dwindling support from state legislatures over the last few decades.

Here in California, state support of the University of California system is less than half of what it was in the early 1970s in terms of its share of the state’s general fund.

When taxpayers and legislators decide to value education over tax cuts, public universities will be able to return to their worthy mission.

Timothy D. Taylor

Los Angeles, Nov. 23, 2006

The writer is a professor of ethnomusicology at the University of California, Los Angeles.

Why is it unfair that “flagship schools compete for high-income, high-achieving students,” but there is no such outrage when schools compete with monetary enticements for athletes?
782 2006-11-28 “A Discredit to the United Nations” (editorial, Nov. 21) is right in criticizing the new Human Rights Council for its near exclusive focus on the human rights policies of only one country: Israel.

When it meets again, the council must broaden its attention to other grave human rights situations, notably in Sudan. But it is in nobody’s interest, least of all the world’s victims of human rights violations, to condemn the council for failing.

Many of its independent human rights experts continue to address human rights problems in numerous countries. Building an entirely new human rights institution that will effectively address human rights everywhere needs time, thought and effort.

The fledgling council needs informed, constructive critique, not simply condemnation.

Yvonne Terlingen

New York, Nov. 24, 2006

The writer is the representative for Amnesty International at the United Nations.
783 2006-11-28 Men who are circumcised may have a significantly reduced risk of acquiring a sexually transmitted disease compared with those who are not, a New Zealand study has found.

Researchers followed a group of 510 boys born in 1977, giving them frequent periodic medical examinations until they were 25. Thirty percent of them had been circumcised by age 15. A little less than 3 percent reported a medically diagnosed sexually transmitted disease at age 21, and an additional 6.6 percent reported one at 25.

After statistically adjusting for family education, socioeconomic status, number of partners and self-reported unprotected sex, researchers concluded that the odds of acquiring a subsequent S.T.D. were 3.19 times higher for men who were uncircumcised. The study was published this month in Pediatrics.

David M. Fergusson, the lead author of the study and a professor of medical psychology at Christchurch School of Medicine, warned that the results were not conclusive. “We are cautious about the findings,” he said. “They depend on self-reports, and not all studies agree with ours. But our results definitely suggest that circumcision may reduce rates of S.T.D.’s. We think we’re correct, but it’s best not to be dogmatic about it.”

Dr. Fergusson declined to offer advice to parents. “Decisions to circumcise children should not be made on the basis of one study,” he said. “They should be based on all the evidence. There is certainly evidence of benefit, but the complicated decision parents face is weighing the benefits against the risks of a surgical procedure. Even if we assumed all the evidence favored circumcision, most children wouldn’t benefit from it. We estimate that you would have to circumcise 20 boys to prevent one case of sexually transmitted disease.”
784 2006-11-28 First there was the blizzard of headlines about Jeanine F. Pirro's plans to eavesdrop on her husband, who she suspected of having an affair. Then there was her defeat in the attorney general's race against Andrew M. Cuomo, part of a Democratic lan...
785 2006-11-28 It was 27 yards and a cloud of disgust for running back Tiki Barber, who questioned the Giants' play-calling after rushing for that number of yards in a defeat at Jacksonville on Nov. 20. A week later, 27 yards rushing was all the Jets gained in a...
786 2006-11-28 The Nasdaq Stock Market said yesterday that it would raise about $5.9 billion to help finance its purchase of the London Stock Exchange Group and meet competition from rivals who are also expanding overseas.     In a Securities and Exchange Commis...
787 2006-11-28 REINING IN ORDERS AT BOEING -- Business is booming at Boeing, where airlines are lining up to buy new aircraft while Boeing's chief rival, Airbus, struggles with production delays. Asian countries, in particular, are clamoring for planes to meet t...
788 2006-11-28 To the Editor:     ''A Discredit to the United Nations'' (editorial, Nov. 21) is right in criticizing the new Human Rights Council for its near exclusive focus on the human rights policies of only one country: Israel.      When it meets again, the...
789 2006-11-28 HIRSCHFELD--Zipora. The entire St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLR) family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Zipora Hirschfeld, beloved mother of our dear...
790 2006-11-28 Prosecutors made a second request for a warrant to arrest a former finance ministry official caught up in the sale of the Korea Exchange Bank to Lone Star Funds, a private equity fund in the United States. In making the request, the government add...
791 2006-11-28 To the Editor:     Re ''Public Colleges as 'Engines of Inequality' '' (editorial, Nov. 23):     It is unfortunately quite true that many public universities are becoming increasingly semiprivate. The editorial portrays this as an elitist move, but...
792 2006-11-28 History shows that candidates who spend large sums from their own pockets usually end up on the losing side. This year was no different.    * Incumbents    SENATE    Neb. Pete Ricketts: R (Losing Candidate)        Personal investment: In millions ...
793 2006-11-29 Is Austin the "Live Music Capital of the World," or the "Live Music Capital of the South?"...
794 2006-11-29 Is it real? You can both scratch it and sniff it.

What’s the point? The Altima has never before been available in a coupe version. But ditch two of the sedan’s doors and like magic, you’ve got one.

The company line: “If you get the basics right, you can focus your efforts on the unique desires of coupe buyers, including wanting a purely personal space,” Bill Bosley, vice president and general manager of Nissan Division, said.

The view from here: That thing quivering in the corner? It would be the Honda Accord Coupe. Standing nearby in a puddle of its own sweat? The Infiniti G35. It’s pretty clear that right out of the box the Coupe will have street cred – once buyers get past a nameplate embraced only by dowagers to this point.

What makes it tick? Your pick, a 3.5-liter V-6 worth 270 horsepower or a 175-horse 2.5-liter 4-cylinder, either one backed by a 6-speed manual or a CVT.

How much, how soon? Expect it to start in the mid-$20,000 range when it arrives next summer as an ’08 model.

How’s it look? A sweet appearance (the car shares little with the sedan version), a wallet-friendly sticker price and sporty performance? Nah, those things never catch on.
795 2006-11-29 Carolyn Kepcher, who helped Donald Trump fire corporate wannabes on "The Apprentice" television show, took a new role on Tuesday – helping Microsoft find the best small-business idea in America. Ms. Kepcher is one of the judges of Microsoft's "U...
796 2006-11-29 Citadel Investment Group, the hedge-fund manager founded by Kenneth Griffin, said earnings by its two largest funds increased more than fivefold on gains from debt and energy investments. Net income at the Citadel Kensington Global Strategies Fund...
797 2006-11-29 The EMI Group admitted Tuesday that it had been approached about a takeover after reports surfaced that private equity bidders were in talks with the music company. "EMI announces that it has, this morning, received a preliminary approach for the ...
798 2006-11-29 Comcast said Tuesday that its two longtime chief financial officers would retire next year and be succeeded by an executive from a private equity firm. The company named Michael J. Angelakis, a managing director of Providence Equity Partners, as c...
799 2006-11-29 Twenty-five gifts for $25 and under....
800 2006-11-29 A city panel in Minneapolis recommended that officials fire Bonnie Bleskachek, the nation’s first openly lesbian big-city fire chief, following suits by firefighters accusing her of harassment and discrimination. Ms. Bleskachek had earlier agreed to step down. But the city’s executive council unanimously rejected a negotiated deal after a closed-door meeting. Ms. Bleskachek, 43, was hailed as a trailblazer when she was promoted to the top job two years ago, but her tenure has been troubled. Three female firefighters have sued, alleging various acts of discrimination and sexual harassment. Two of the lawsuits were settled, but this month a male firefighter brought another lawsuit contending that he had been denied advancement because he is male and not gay.
801 2006-11-29 “I am here to make sure the mistakes of the past are not repeated,” said Sheik Dhari al-Jirba, of the Iraqi Shummar tribe, who sat in his hotel suite nervously pondering what strategy for Iraq would be pursued.

“We keep hearing they want to bring Iran in, but Iran will come with conditions,” he said. “We don’t want Iran’s conditions to be met at the cost of Iraq and its Sunni neighbors. That is our great fear.”

Mr. Jirba said he planned to meet with Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to Iraq, and hoped he would have an audience with the president himself. His first demand, he said, would be to say “no” to Iran.

A draft report by an American bipartisan commission studying new strategies for Iraq urges the United States to open direct talks with Iran and Syria, according to American officials who have seen all or part of the document.

On Monday, the Iraqi president, Jalal Talabani, said in Iran that his country needed Iran’s help for peace.

The United States wants moderate Arab governments like those of Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan to help drive a wedge between Mr. Maliki and Moktada al-Sadr, the anti-American Shiite cleric whose Mahdi Army has been behind many of the Shiite reprisal attacks in Iraq, senior administration official have said.

But that would require getting those governments to coax moderate Sunni Iraqis to support Mr. Maliki, a Shiite, elevating his ability to take on Mr. Sadr’s Shiite militias.

Yet for many, the possibility of involving Iran, whether it has a nuclear bomb or not, is a central concern. Many analysts said it would amount to a loss of face for the Arabs and a striking advantage to Iran.

“The one thing scarier to these guys than a powerful Iran is an American deal with Iran,” said Joost Hiltermann, Middle East project director at the International Crisis Group. “That would ratify Iran’s dominant position in the Persian Gulf. Iran wants to underscore it is the pre-eminent power in the region, and the U.S. would hand them that.”

Despite growing anti-Americanism, Arab governments want to maintain an American presence in the region, fearing Iran would step in where the United States retreated. But a shift on Iran and Syria has caught many by surprise, as the Bush administration goes from “calling them the axis of evil, to considering them as an important element,” Emad Gad, a researcher at Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo, said last week.

“The security and stability of the Persian Gulf cannot endure a shaken U.S. image,” Mr. Gad said. “When the big bodyguard leaves, they will have to succumb to the little bodyguard, and Iran has military power and has Shiites who could cause problems.”

In the Amman suburb of Ruseifa, Abu Mutasim, who said he was a jihadi and would give only his nickname, greeted a possible American opening with Iran with optimism.

“Iran is the source of all the problems in the Middle East, and now they want to create problems here,” he said. “But including them would only be in the interest of the jihadis, because Iraq’s Sunnis would quickly shift to Al Qaeda. This would ultimately be in our interests, not against it.”
802 2006-11-29 A state judge yesterday dismissed a lawsuit against proposed plans to expand the Brooklyn Bridge Park, saying that a state agency’s decision to incorporate a hotel and private apartments was “not unreasonable or unlawful.” The suit, filed by a Brooklyn community group, claimed that the plan, which calls for a portion of the 1.3-mile waterfront park to be set aside for private development, violated the public trust doctrine, which forbids private development on parkland unless specifically approved by the Legislature. But Justice Lawrence S. Knipel of State Supreme Court said the doctrine did not apply to the parcels in question. In a statement, Judi Francis, president of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Defense Fund, which helped bring the suit, called the ruling disappointing and vowed to appeal.
803 2006-11-29 Comcast, the cable company, announced yesterday that its two longtime chief financial officers would retire next year and will be succeeded by an executive from a private equity firm.

Comcast named Michael J. Angelakis, a managing director of Providence Equity Partners, as chief financial officer. Mr. Angelakis, who worked on some of the biggest media buyouts is recent years, including the acquisition of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and the YES Network, was the chief executive of a small cable operator in Maine called State Cable TV Corporation in the 1990s.

The move to bring in an outsider began last year after Comcast’s co-chief financial officers, Lawrence Smith and John Alchin, privately told company executives that they wanted to retire. Mr. Smith, 59, had been at Comcast for 18 years and John Alchin, 58, for 16 years.

Comcast conducted a search and eventually settled on Mr. Angelakis, who had worked with the cable company when it joined a consortium with Sony and Providence to buy MGM, and on the sale of some of Comcast’s cable systems to Bresnan Broadband Holdings, which is partly owned by Providence.

“I think this is the first company to get someone back from private equity who is a star, because everyone else is going the other way,” Brian L. Roberts, Comcast’s chief executive, said. Mr. Roberts said he initially did not think the company could entice Mr. Angelakis because of the money that can be made in the growing private equity business.

Mr. Angelakis said he pursued the job at Comcast because he wanted to get back into the operating side of the business. He will be paid $10 million in cash and stock and a $1.5 million annual salary as part of his employment agreement.
804 2006-11-29 Energy Solutions has a hazardous- waste facility in the Utah desert. That is a mite different from all those local Citibank branches that are 24-hour reminders of the new Mets’ ballpark, to be called Citi Field because of the $20 million a year Citicorp will pay the Mets.

Inevitably, Citi Field, which is scheduled to open in 2009, will spawn a nickname, as has been the case with Gillette Stadium (the Razor), Minute Maid Park (the Juice Box) and US Cellular Field (the Cell). When the Arizona Diamondbacks’ stadium was called Bank One Ballpark, it was the Bob.

But naming a stadium for a hazardous-waste disposer is a rare chance for smart alecks to make their bids for the most creative and silliest mockeries of Energy Solutions Arena. Since the announcement of the Delta-to-Energy Solutions name switcheroo last week, KSL-TV, in Salt Lake City, has invited people to send e-mail messages with their proposed monikers, which include:

The Glow Bowl and the Isotope. The Dump and ChernoBowl. JazzMat (short for Jazzardous Materials), the Big Bang and the Tox Box. The Power House and the Hot Spot. The Fallout Shelter. And the Melta Center.

A letter writer to The Salt Lake Tribune suggested the jaunty Radium Stadium.

“It’ll take on a life of its own,” Dennis Haslam, the president of the Jazz, said. “People will find a nickname, a shorthand name. But when we have 19,911 fans at a sellout, they aren’t that concerned about the name of the building. They’re here to be entertained.”

Greg Hopkins, a senior vice president, said Energy Solutions analyzed the benefits of educating the public about the nuclear industry and assessed how much derision the arena deal might generate. He said the company also anticipated the dredging up of past stories about regulatory problems involving Envirocare, one of four companies that merged this year to create Energy Solutions.

“We expected this,” he said. “It’s an industry that people don’t understand well, and it’s radioactive, and you’re going to get jokes about it. Some of the nicknames are funny. We expected all of this.”

“But it’s created a good opportunity to tell our story,” he added — how a safely run and efficient nuclear power industry can be a solution to global warming. But he said that he did not yet know whether the company would install educational kiosks inside the arena to promote the nuclear industry.

Delta, which is in bankruptcy, did not renew its arena deal, which expired Sept. 30. The Jazz wanted a major Utah company, of which there are not many, and Haslam said that Energy Solutions would pay at least as much as Delta did, a figure that has been reported at $1.3 million annually. “I think it will end up being a positive for both us,” he said. “I don’t think people will call us the Dump.”

Still, Steve Greenberg, the architect of the Mets-Citicorp deal, said that in general, the chance that a corporation’s business will be derided is a major obstacle when a decision is being made on whether to proceed in the naming process.

“You have to ask how your fans are going to react,” as well as whether a business will engender negative associations, said Greenberg, a managing director at Allen & Company, an investment firm.

As he and Fred Wilpon, the Mets’ principal owner, looked at candidates for the new ballpark’s naming rights, Greenberg said they looked for long-term compatibility between the team’s and company’s business interests.

As for the impact of binding a team and arena to a company whose line of business can be mocked, Greenberg added, “It probably only gets worse.”
805 2006-11-29 In political circles, Richard D. Parsons, the chairman and chief executive of Time Warner, has become a perennial favorite among the possible candidates mentioned to succeed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Yesterday, while saying he was not running for the job, he suddenly sounded a lot more like a man who wants to keep the option open.

During a question-and-answer session at the Reuters Media Summit yesterday, a reporter mentioned the many news stories speculating that he was considering a run for City Hall and asked Mr. Parsons if he saw himself “pursuing a political career.”

Rather than simply shoot down the notion, Mr. Parsons appeared to leave open the possibility, giving the sort of squishy denial his friend Mr. Bloomberg gives when answering questions about his presidential ambitions.

“This has been my either fate or challenge for 30 years ever since I got out of government,” said Mr. Parsons, 58, who was counsel for Nelson A. Rockefeller when Mr. Rockefeller was governor of New York and when he was vice president, and a senior White House aide under President Gerald R. Ford before going into business. “Everybody’s speculating, ‘He’s just hanging around, waiting for his moment.’ Currently I don’t have any plans to do that.”

Asked if he had ruled out a run, he replied: “Why would you do that?”

Despite the collective yearning of many among the moneyed, political elite that Mr. Parsons succeed Mr. Bloomberg, a Time Warner spokesman, Edward I. Adler, said it was not to be. Mr. Parsons, he said, has been consistent in saying that when he eventually leaves Time Warner he would like to take some time off and then do something involving education and children.

Even the refusal to rule out a run should not be interpreted as flirting with one, Mr. Adler said, since Mr. Parsons is a never-say-never-type, living by a mantra that “you can never rule anything out.”
806 2006-11-29 Drug sales representatives promote medicines by visiting doctors’ offices to offer physicians promotional literature, journal articles and free samples for patients. But many doctors now complain that they are overrun by too many representatives who have little useful information.

Now, with revenue barely rising at most companies and Democratic leaders in Congress vowing to wring savings from the Medicare prescription drug program, drug makers are under pressure to bring their costs down.

In a statement about the layoffs, Pfizer said it would announce more “actions for transforming the company” in January.

The restructuring program comes on top of an earlier set of layoffs that trimmed Pfizer’s work force by 5,300 employees since early 2005, according to a Pfizer filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The new cuts are one of the first moves by Jeffrey B. Kindler, the former General Electric executive who in July replaced Pfizer’s ousted chief executive, Hank McKinnell. Mr. Kindler has pledged to review every aspect of the company’s operations.

Pfizer has also promised to reduce its overall costs in 2007 compared with 2006, and further reduce them in 2008.

Paul Fitzhenry, a Pfizer spokesman, said the company expected to notify affected employees by mid- to late December. The layoffs should be complete by Jan. 1, he said.

The layoffs will be spread broadly across the United States sales force, including both field representatives and managers, not confined to any geographic area or category of drugs.

Pfizer did not disclose details of the severance packages employees would be offered.

Pfizer has 106,000 employees worldwide, including 42,000 in the United States. Its sales force, including managers, totals just under 12,000 in the United States and another 24,000 outside the United States. The cuts announced yesterday do not cover the international sales force.

The company made the announcement after the close of trading yesterday, during which shares of Pfizer rose 8 cents, to $27.05. In after-hours trading shares were up an additional 20 cents. Pfizer shares have risen 16 percent this year but are still down by almost half from the highs they set six years ago.

“This is overdue,” said Les Funtleyder, an industry analyst at Miller Tabak. “Pfizer was probably the innovator in the ‘Mongol horde’ approach to the sales force, and that model served them well in the past. Now they simply don’t need as many.”

Like other big drug companies, Pfizer remains very profitable. Last year, the company had $14 billion in profits, excluding one-time charges, on $51 billion in sales.

But despite a $7 billion annual research budget, Pfizer has had deep difficulties bringing new drugs to market.

Earlier yesterday, Pfizer announced it had ended a research collaboration with a European company to develop asenapine, a treatment for schizophrenia that analysts had predicted could be a multibillion-dollar drug.

Pfizer has also run into unexpected problems with torcetrapib, a drug meant to raise so-called good cholesterol. Torcetrapib appears to raise blood pressure slightly in patients, a serious side effect for a drug intended to reduce heart disease.

As a result, most analysts now believe that the Food and Drug Administration will not approve torcetrapib unless Pfizer can prove through studies that it reduces heart attacks and other cardiovascular problems. That data will probably not be available until at least 2010.

Tomorrow, Pfizer will play host to an all-day conference with analysts, investors, and the news media at its research campus in Groton, Conn., to discuss its pipeline of new drugs. Analysts are expecting greater transparency from the company, which in the past has been reluctant to discuss its early-stage drug candidates.
807 2006-11-29 In this case, the leaders must act fast — by the end of December — if they want to derail the plan. But most of the major players took a wait-and-see attitude on Tuesday.

Governor Pataki, who was traveling, said in a statement that he would study the plan. The Republican-led State Senate and the Democratic-led Assembly both said they would hold hearings before deciding what to do. And in a statement, Mr. Spitzer said he would review the report and announce whether, if he were governor, he would approve it and send it to the Legislature.

“Our state’s broken health care system requires drastic reform, and it is critical that we consider these recommendations seriously,” Mr. Spitzer said.

Although the report recommends closing five hospitals, and effectively a sixth, in New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the plan seemed reasonable.

“When I skimmed it, it looked like they were perfectly reasonable decisions,” he said. “You will always find somebody to put on television saying they’re not happy with it. But we have to address the issue that if we want good, quality medical care and we don’t want to go bankrupt paying for it, we’re going to have to have the resources that we need in the places we need them and not continue to have resources that we don’t need, where they’re not used.”

Dennis Rivera, the president of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, the powerful hospital workers’ union, issued a measured statement, but suggested in an interview that a battle could be looming.

“It is fair to say that today my phone has been ringing nonstop from employers, legislators, pro bono groups and others, asking, ‘What should we do?’ ” he said. “And numerous people from different parts of the state have said they want to defeat this process in Albany or challenge it in court.”

There is not much time for all sides to decide what they are going to do. Governor Pataki has until Tuesday to decide whether to approve the proposal and send it to the Legislature. An aide to the governor said that he would probably send it along earlier, possibly before Friday. And since the governor has called the Legislature into a special session on Dec. 13 to consider legislation to allow for the civil confinement of sex offenders, many lawmakers expect that they will decide whether to reject the report by that week.

Of course, the Legislature could also pass a new law giving itself a later deadline to deal with the plan. Even if the proposal becomes law, the Legislature could always amend parts of it next year.

And then there are the potential lawsuits. Daniel Sisto, the president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, which represents more than 550 hospitals, nursing homes and other health care agencies, said that some organizations that could be told to merge or close are gearing up for legal action.

“If the Legislature agrees to let this go forward, some of these institutions have already indicated a willingness to go to court to block it,” he said.

The next step will include legislative hearings, which could be a magnet for opponents. Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Nassau County and chairman of the Senate’s health committee, will hold a hearing on Friday. The Assembly plans to hold public hearings in New York City, Long Island, Westchester, Albany, Syracuse and Buffalo.

Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat and chairman of the Assembly’s health committee, said Democrats discussed the report on Tuesday at a conference in Manhattan.

“The option of voting to reject the package is very much on the table,” he said. “The recommendations are nowhere near as bad as they could have been, but there are still major problems.”
808 2006-11-29 The Federal Circuit’s test for obviousness is usually referred to as the teaching-suggestion-motivation test. Under the test, a patent cannot be rejected as obvious unless the party challenging it can show that at the time of the invention, there existed a “teaching, suggestion, or motivation” that would have led a person familiar with the field to put existing products together. Meeting that test often requires a jury trial, making patent litigation prolonged and expensive.

James W. Dabney, the lawyer representing KSR, told the justices that the Federal Circuit had improperly displaced “skill and ingenuity” as the benchmark for obtaining a patent and replaced it with what amounted to an “entitlement” to patent protection. But the Supreme Court itself “has rejected time and time again the notion that someone who was the first simply to take advantage of the known capability of technology was entitled to a patent,” he added.

The federal Patent and Trademark Office agrees with the critique and entered the case on the side of KSR. Thomas G. Hungar, a deputy solicitor general, told the justices that “as the sole means of proving obviousness, the teaching-suggestion-motivation test is contrary to the Patent Act, irreconcilable with this court’s precedents, and bad policy.”

Mr. Hungar added, “It asks the wrong question and, in cases like this one, it produces the wrong answer.”

But as Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. pointed out, the Federal Circuit had a rationale for adding its distinctive gloss to the concept of obviousness. “They say obviousness is deceptive in hindsight,” the chief justice observed to Mr. Dabney. “In hindsight, everybody says, ‘I could have thought of that,’ ” he said, adding that in the Federal Circuit’s view, “if you don’t have the sort of constraint that their test imposes, it’s going to be too easy to say that everything was obvious.”

The chief justice’s comment came early in the argument; any implication that he was sympathetic to the appeals court proved premature. When it came time for the lawyer for Teleflex, Thomas C. Goldstein, to take the podium, Chief Justice Roberts made clear his disdain for the Federal Circuit’s approach.

The test “adds a layer of Federal Circuit jargon that lawyers can then bandy back and forth,” he said, adding, “It seems to me that it’s worse than meaningless because it complicates the inquiry rather than focusing on the statute.”

When Mr. Goldstein noted that “every single major patent bar association in the country has filed on our side,” the chief justice interjected: “Well, which way does that cut? That just indicates that this is profitable for the patent bar.” And when Mr. Goldstein referred to experts who had testified that the Teleflex patent was not obvious, the chief justice asked: “Who do you get to be an expert to tell you something’s not obvious? I mean, the least insightful person you can find?”

Chief Justice Roberts made the comments with a smile, and the courtroom audience responded with laughter. Mr. Goldstein, an experienced Supreme Court advocate, was unfazed at finding himself the straight man in a courtroom comedy. He kept returning to his theme, which was that the Federal Circuit’s test, properly understood, served the function of focusing the inquiry.

“Invention isn’t at the end when you put the two things together,” Mr. Goldstein said. “Invention is finding the problem, deciding what pieces of the prior art to use, and deciding how to put them together.” He warned that there would be “genuine, dramatic instability” if the court disavowed the approach the Federal Circuit has used nearly since its creation in 1982.

Congress created the centralized court for the purpose of reducing instability in the patent system. Underlying the legal arguments was the deeper question of how patent law has fared in the court’s hands — whether, as Justice Stephen G. Breyer put it, “they’ve leaned too far in the direction of never seeing a patent they didn’t like.” There was, Justice Breyer said, “a huge argument going on.” With that observation, Mr. Goldstein readily agreed.
809 2006-11-29 Neither the federal Defense of Marriage Act nor the Marriage Affirmation Act of Virginia overrode the 1980 law, the appeals court ruled.

The Defense of Marriage Act, or D.O.M.A., enacted in 1996, said that states need not recognize judicial proceedings from other states “respecting a relationship between people of the same sex.”

“This case,” Judge Jere M. H. Willis Jr. wrote for the Court of Appeals of Virginia, in Alexandria, “does not place before us the question whether Virginia recognizes the civil union entered into by the parties in Vermont.

“Rather, the only question before us,” Judge Willis wrote, is whether under the 1980 law “Virginia can deny full faith and credit to the orders of the Vermont court.”

To the extent that the Virginia marriage law applied, he continued, it was overridden by the 1980 federal law.

Mathew Staver, a lawyer for Ms. Miller, said he would ask the full appeals court and, if necessary, the Virginia Supreme Court and the United States Supreme Court to hear the case.

“Our client is certainly not giving up, is in this for the long haul and, since her daughter is at stake, is prepared to take this as far as she has to,” Mr. Staver said.

Ms. Miller and Ms. Jenkins had lived together for several years in Virginia before traveling to Vermont in 2000 to enter into a civil union. Isabella was born in Virginia in 2002, after Ms. Miller was impregnated with sperm from an anonymous donor whom Ms. Jenkins helped select. Ms. Jenkins was present in the delivery room.

When Isabella was 4 months old, the women moved to Vermont, where they lived for about a year before separating. Ms. Miller and Isabella moved back to Virginia.

Ms. Miller has said that she no longer considers herself a homosexual. She said that she was Isabella’s only mother and that she did not want Ms. Jenkins to have visitation rights.

Greg Nevins, a lawyer for Ms. Jenkins, said the Virginia decision was a straightforward application of binding federal law. The court, he said, “didn’t get caught up in a lot of the more sensational-type issues.”

Mr. Staver said the court focused on the wrong part of the legal landscape.

“We believe the federal D.O.M.A. controls the matter and allows Virginia to set its own marriage policy,” Mr. Staver said. “Virginia clearly does not recognize same-sex marriages, same-sex civil unions or any law that derives from those unions.”

Ms. Jenkins has not seen her daughter since June 2004. Though the appeals court instructed the trial judge “to extend full faith and credit to the custody and visitation orders of the Vermont court,” it was not clear whether Ms. Jenkins would see Isabella before the case is concluded.
810 2006-11-29 In what aides said was his first formal statement since Mr. Litvinenko’s death, Mr. Berezovsky said he was “deeply saddened” by the death of his associate, who had worked for both the K.G.B. and its successor organization, known by its Russian initials, F.S.B.

Referring to Mr. Litvinenko’s claim that he had refused an order to assassinate Mr. Berezovsky in the late 1990s, Mr. Berezovsky said: “I credit him with saving my life, and he remained a close friend and ally ever since. I will remember him for his bravery, his determination and his honor.

“Many of Mr. Litvinenko’s friends and I have already publicly expressed our views about what we think might have happened. Therefore I believe the most helpful course we can take is to let the police get on with their work,” the statement said. “I have complete faith in the British authorities and the police. They are conducting a thorough and professional investigation, and we should now wait for the results.”

Mr. Berezovsky said the traces of radiation in his office had been “discovered as part of an ongoing police investigation of all the locations visited by Alexander Litvinenko” on Nov. 1.

Previously, the police tracked Mr. Litvinenko on that day to a sushi bar, the five-star Millennium Mayfair hotel in central London and his own home in north London. Officers have also discovered traces of radiation at a security company in Mayfair called Erinys, the company acknowledged in a statement.

Mr. Litvinenko visited its office “on a matter totally unrelated to issues now being investigated by the police,” the company said.

Friends of Mr. Litvinenko have said he was a frequent visitor to Mr. Berezovsky’s office. Mr. Berezovsky fled Russia in late 2000, after amassing a fortune in the freewheeling 1990s through a car dealership, a media empire, the Aeroflot airline and holdings in oil and aluminum.

An autopsy is to be carried out on Mr. Litvinenko on Friday, following the formal opening of a coroner’s inquest on Thursday.

The British authorities said Tuesday that eight people had been sent to a clinic to be tested for radiation traces. One of them was a reporter for The Daily Mirror tabloid, Graham Brough, who said he was tested after shaking hands with Mario Scaramella, an Italian academic who said he met Mr. Litvinenko in the Itsu sushi bar in Piccadilly on Nov. 1.

Mr. Brough wrote in The Daily Mirror on Tuesday that he had been singled out for testing because “Scaramella’s palms had been slightly sweaty when I shook hands” with him during an interview last week in Naples.

British health authorities and the police have said polonium 210 cannot be transmitted through the skin and is not harmful unless it is swallowed, breathed in or passed through an open wound.

Mr. Scaramella has also been tested for radiation by the British police, according to Paolo Guzzanti, an Italian senator who led a parliamentary commission investigating the possibility of K.G.B. activity in Italy. The panel employed Mario Scaramella as a consultant, according to Mr. Guzzanti, who said he spoke to Mr. Scaramella on Tuesday.

“He said he was in a castle outside of London, and I don’t know if it is official, but he is under police protection,” Mr. Guzzanti said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. “He has three armored cars around him with bodyguards and the police or secret service,” he added. The British police have declined to confirm those assertions.

Mr. Scaramella has told Italian reporters that when he met with Mr. Litvinenko on Nov. 1, he showed the Russian e-mail messages from a mutual intelligence acquaintance listing individuals whose lives were said to be in danger from criminals based in St. Petersburg.

The messages reportedly claimed that the same criminals killed Anna Politkovskaya, a Russian investigative journalist, in Moscow last month. Mr. Litvinenko’s associates say he was investigating her shooting when he was poisoned.

In his first public remarks on the matter, Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday that no “diplomatic or political barrier” would be allowed to thwart the police inquiry into Mr. Litvinenko’s death. “It is obviously a very, very serious matter indeed,” Mr. Blair told a news conference. “We are determined to find out what happened and who is responsible.”
811 2006-11-29 LONDON, Nov. 28 (Reuters) — The EMI Group, the British music company, said Tuesday that it had been approached about a takeover, and a source close to the situation said that the private equity firm Permira had made the contact.

“EMI announces that it has, this morning, received a preliminary approach for the company which may or may not lead to an offer,” EMI, home to artists like Robbie Williams and Coldplay, said in a statement. The company declined to name its suitor.

The Financial Times said Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Goldman Sachs were believed to be among potential bidders for EMI. Kohlberg Kravis declined to comment and Goldman Sachs could not be reached for comment.

EMI shares closed up 10.4 percent, at 289.5 pence, valuing the group at £2.3 billion ($4.4 billion).

Earlier this year, EMI was locked in a $4.6 billion takeover battle with Warner Music, with each company trying to buy the other.

But hopes of a deal were quashed in June when a European court annulled approval of the 2004 merger of Sony’s music division and Bertelsmann’s BMG unit.
812 2006-11-29 Last week, a couple were threatened with fines of $25 a day by their homeowners’ association unless they removed a four-foot wreath shaped like a peace symbol from the front of their house.

The fines have been dropped, and the three-member board of the association has resigned, according to an e-mail message sent to residents on Monday.

Two board members have disconnected their telephones, apparently to escape the waves of callers asking what the board could have been thinking, residents said. The third board member, with a working phone, did not return a call for comment.

In its original letter to the couple, Lisa Jensen and Bill Trimarco, the association said some neighbors had found the peace symbol politically “divisive.”

A board member later told a newspaper that he thought the familiar circle with angled lines was also, perhaps, a sign of the devil.
813 2006-11-29 Stocks advanced modestly yesterday after Wall Street shrugged off a sharp drop in orders for manufactured goods and took comfort in the first gain in existing-home sales in eight months.

Investors had little reaction to comments from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that he remained concerned that inflation or a steeper-than-expected decline in the housing market could harm an already slowing economy.

The Commerce Department’s report that orders for durable goods fell 8.3 percent in October — the largest drop in more than six years — stoked early concerns that the economy was slowing at too fast a pace. But a report from the National Association of Realtors showing a slight uptick in home sales last month lent support to the market, even though it also revealed the steepest drop on record in the median selling price.

The market’s muted response followed its worst session in more than four months on Monday. John Zielinski, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, said the market’s plunge was overblown and that investors could be seeing lower-than-usual liquidity given that Thursday is the end of the fiscal year for many brokerage firms.

“The moves seem to be a little bit exaggerated based on the data points we’re seeing,” he said.
814 2006-11-29 Re “Flaws Seen in Markets for Utilities” (“Power Play” series, Business Day, Nov. 21):

There is a big difference in saying that electricity markets are not working because the rules are not right versus saying one cannot create a market for electricity.

It is not even clear that electricity markets are not working. Economists have come down on both sides of the issue with conflicting studies in many electricity markets.

The correct test, where markets have been introduced, is not whether prices have fallen but whether electricity prices would have been lower than those today if the old formula of regulated wholesale prices had remained in effect. That methodology has been shown to penalize efficiency.

Competition has elsewhere encouraged efficiency and innovation better than regulation.

That electricity must be consumed when produced is no different from other time-perishable commodities like airline seats, hotel rooms, movie seats and advertising time on television. No barrier there.

The solution is to improve market rules and market oversight.

The writer, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is global and United States regulatory policy leader for energy and resources at Deloitte Services.
815 2006-11-29 Minaya’s first two off-seasons with the Mets were far better than this one has started out to be, but he has plenty of time to catch up. The Mets will just have to work on their posting game.

The Japanese teams are the big winners. In fact, so much money will be going to Japanese teams that Major League Baseball may want to study the system and see if there is a less expensive way of doing it.

The Seibu Lions stand to gain $51.1 million once the Red Sox sign Matsuzaka, which the team’s president, Larry Lucchino, is in Japan trying to do. The Hanshin Tigers look forward to getting their $26 million once the Yankees sign Igawa. The Yankees have 30 days to get it done. No contract, no posting payment.

The Yankees should have an easier time signing their Japanese pitcher than the Red Sox may have getting theirs under contract.

The Red Sox are negotiating with Scott Boras, an agent who strikes fear and loathing into the hearts and minds of some general managers. The Yankees will negotiate with Arn Tellem, an old friend.

Not that Tellem will give the Yankees a discount, but they have a history of successful negotiations. Tellem just negotiated a new two-year contract for Mike Mussina, and he has negotiated two contracts for another Japanese player, Hideki Matsui.

And there was the Jason Giambi contract five years ago, when Tellem asked the Yankees to remove all mentions of steroids use from the guarantee language, and the team complied to induce Giambi to sign a seven-year, $120 million contract.

The Yankees don’t expect Igawa’s contract to be an expensive one, maybe four years at $4 million to $4.5 million a year. That’s because he is viewed as being no higher than No. 3 in the rotation, perhaps No. 4.

Until they see him pitch against major league hitters in a major league environment, though, the Yankees won’t know what they have. Their scouts followed him for three years in Japan, but remember Hideki Irabu? He was going to be a major league star until he pitched in the major leagues.

Although they didn’t get Matsuzaka, who is projected as a No. 1 starter some day, the Yankees feel good about filling one of their rotation spots without committing to a huge contract. Before they sign any free agent these days, the Yankees consider the economic impact.

Because the Yankees have been over the luxury tax threshold more times than even George Steinbrenner can count and will be over it again next year, every $1 the Yankees spend on a new contract costs them $1.40. That’s their tax rate — 40 percent. No one else has it.

The posting game appears to be finished for this off-season. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays won the rights to the third posted player, third baseman Akinori Iwamura. His rights cost only $4.5 million. But notice that all three players are headed for the American League East, so Matsuzaka and Igawa could have plenty of chances to pitch against Iwamura next season.

An interesting and not unexpected aspect of the Matsuzaka portion of the posting game arose yesterday. It didn’t take long for the conspiracy theorists to emerge. What if, they asked, the Red Sox were unable to sign Matsuzaka but negotiated a working agreement with Seibu. Japanese teams have had working agreements with major league teams.

The Lions could agree through the agreement to take, say, $10 million less from the Red Sox, who would use the money to complete a deal with Matsuzaka. Seibu would receive less money, but $41 million would be better than nothing.

Not so fast, said Lou Melendez, baseball’s vice president for international relations.

“You can always conspire to try to beat the system,” he said, “but this is a very simple straightforward process, and if there is any question, it would be investigated. Anything can happen, but everybody’s looking at that situation very carefully.”

Everybody knows, of course, that the Yankees and the Red Sox would never do anything underhanded to try to beat each other.
816 2006-11-29 Splash of Pernod, ouzo or other licorice-flavored spirit....
817 2006-11-29 DIGITAL MOVIES AT WALMART.COM -- Wal-Mart, the country's largest seller of movies on DVD, said it would begin testing a video download service next year over its Web site, walmart.com. [Page C1.]    PFIZER TO CUT SALES FORCE -- Pfizer said that it...
818 2006-11-29 To the Editor:     Re ''Flaws Seen in Markets for Utilities'' (''Power Play'' series, Business Day, Nov. 21):     There is a big difference in saying that electricity markets are not working because the rules are not right versus saying one cannot...
819 2006-11-29 Arenas and stadiums derive their names from many industries.     Banks, airlines, insurers and car manufacturers. Telephone and computer companies. An overnight deliverer. And beer, soft drink and ketchup makers....
820 2006-11-30 It seems counterintuitive, but the airline industry's troubles may end up helping aircraft maker Boeing. TheStreet.com's Ted Reed notes that Boeing is the chair of the official committee of unsecured creditors of Delta Air Lines, a position he sug...
821 2006-11-30 A little-known shell company, an aborted press conference and a lot of people scratching their heads: Those are the elements of a puzzling situation involving what may or may not be an attempt to buy Euro Disney, the debt-ridden theme park operato...
822 2006-11-30 An independent committee formed with the endorsement of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. called for a sweeping overhaul of securities regulations, citing concerns that American markets are losing their competitiveness. In a report released ...
823 2006-11-30 Angelo, Gordon and Eureka Capital Partners have agreed to buy publicly traded National Home Health Care for as much as $65 million. National Home, based in Scarsdale, N.Y., provides healthcare and staffing services in the Northeast. Angelo, Gordon...
824 2006-11-30 New shows in New York include "The Coast of Utopia," "Dark Matters" and "The Atheist."...
825 2006-11-30 PC makers, software developers and others who rely on Microsoft’s Windows technology were disappointed by the delay past the holiday season in the consumer market, and their sales will most likely suffer this year.

Yet the next Windows and Office cycle of buying is now on the horizon, and they are positioning themselves for advantage. Dell, for example, has stumbled over the past year. But it is strongest in the corporate market, and it hopes to benefit from helping business customers make the transition to Windows Vista and Office 2007 relatively quickly and inexpensively. “This should work to Dell’s advantage,” said Brad Anderson, a Dell senior vice president.

In its new products, Microsoft is acknowledging the importance to customers of Internet-based software — a technology direction symbolized by Google, which in addition to search is also offering other services, including Web-based document processing.

The new wave of Microsoft offerings has been designed to find, view and link to blogs on the Internet, for example, and to use that technology with Microsoft products. “We want to bring those innovations safely inside the corporation,” Mr. Ballmer said.

Microsoft also released new versions of two server products, Exchange Server 2007 and Office Sharepoint Server 2007, which corporations have also been testing. The big gains for corporate customers, according to Mr. Ballmer, will come from using the new desktop and server software together. “It’s a Microsoft family of products,” he said. “And there’s all this innovation that’s coming behind the flagship products.”

Exchange is the server program behind Outlook, Microsoft’s desktop e-mail and communications software, which is part of the Office suite of products. Sharepoint is a collaboration tool that allows people to work together and jointly modify reports, project plans and other documents online.

Sharepoint is similar to Web software for collaboration, like wikis, which are gaining in popularity inside companies. Eyeing the potential, Google recently bought a wiki start-up company called Jotspot.

Sharepoint is a collaboration tool, but one that is tied to the Office suite of productivity programs like Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, which are familiar to hundreds of millions of workers.

Sharepoint, analysts say, is doing well within companies, which want to enhance collaboration and productivity but may be reluctant to rely on a start-up or free software.

“That’s a big lock-in factor and it helps Microsoft, at least for the next few years,” said Michael Silver, an analyst at Gartner, a research firm.

While many companies are experimenting with Web-based software and free versions of office-oriented programs, they do not yet represent a real threat to Microsoft’s industry-dominant Windows and Office products, analysts say, at least not for another few years.

“This is a better Windows and a better Office, and there is no feasible alternative for most companies,” said Jim Murphy, an analyst for AMR Research, a technology consulting firm.

Among the testers of the new Microsoft products was the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, where the cancer research group is using Vista, Office and Sharepoint to show 3-D images of protein molecules on the surface of cancer cells, let scientists worldwide look at them and share written research. The specialized application was built in two weeks.

“That simplicity is essential, and revolutionary, to help speed the pace of innovation in the kind of work we do,” said Dr. Peter Kuhn, a cell biologist at the institute.

Michael Wolf, chief executive of MTV Networks, said the new Microsoft products made it easier and faster for teams of writers in far-flung locations to make changes quickly on scripts for television programs, all working from their favored Office program. “Our people are addicted to Outlook,” Mr. Wolf said.

Shaygan Kheradpir, the chief information officer of Verizon, said the BitLocker feature in Vista, which allows for automatic data encryption, will ease his worries when company laptops are lost or stolen. “It’s a quantum jump in security and privacy,” he said.

Microsoft has long said that its toughest competitor in the personal computer operating system market is the previous versions of its own Windows software. Corporations tend to move gradually to new operating systems, waiting a year or two after a new Windows version is released, as they test their in-house software applications and write new ones tailored for the new Windows.

But “for most companies, it’s not a question of if, but when,” Mr. Murphy of AMR Research said.
826 2006-11-30 TOKYO, Nov. 30 — Yoshiaki Murakami, a once-popular financier who became a lightning rod for public ire at Japan’s tilt toward American-style capitalism, pleaded not guilty to insider trading charges at the opening of his trial here today.

The twin court cases of Mr. Murakami and Takafumi Horie, an Internet entrepreneur on trial separately on charges of securities law violations, have received intense scrutiny here as Japan’s answer to the Enron scandal in the United States. Mr. Horie is expected to testify in the Murakami trial.

“I am convinced that I am not guilty,” Mr. Murakami told the Tokyo District Court. He faces up to three years in prison or a fine of up to 3 million yen, or $26,000, if convicted.

In another sign this could become a long, hard-fought case, Mr. Murakami also retracted confessions made before he was arrested in June and to prosecutors during questioning afterward. “I confessed, contrary to the facts,” he told the court.

“Based on my pride and dignity as a person who doesn’t break the law, I will seek the court’s judgment,” he said.
827 2006-11-30 A man fatally shot a woman and then fatally shot himself yesterday at a business in Hicksville, the Nassau County police said. Investigators said the shootings appeared to be a domestic dispute, though it was not clear whether the two, whose identities were not released, were married. The man, 48, took the woman, 50, into Botto Brothers Plumbing and Heating Services, at 128 Woodbury Road, at about 4:30 p.m. and shot her in a back room, the police said. The man was declared dead at the scene. The woman was declared dead at 4:43 p.m. at Nassau University Medical Center. Investigators said it was not clear whether the man had any connection with Botto Brothers.
828 2006-11-30 The Millennium Challenge Corporation, an American foreign aid agency, said it would provide $461 million to El Salvador over five years for projects across the country’s poor northern region. The largest, costing $234 million, will rehabilitate the Northern Transnational Highway and a build a network of feeder roads that would provide rural families access to broader markets. Other grants will expand access to water, education, sanitation and electricity in poor communities. The agency, criticized by members of Congress for moving too slowly, has picked up the pace this year, announcing more than $2 billion in projects for Armenia, Benin, Ghana, Mali, Vanuatu and now El Salvador.
829 2006-11-30 “Building million-dollar homes or houses of that caliber for upscale buyers would be beneficial for the community and would build the tax base for the city,” said Assemblywoman Audrey I. Pheffer, who added that any such plan should only be done if the city provided a commensurate parcel of public land nearby for conversion to park land.

A public hearing was held Tuesday night in the Rockaways by the city’s Health and Hospitals Corporation, which has jurisdiction over the city land but has already begun the process of surrendering it back to the city.

Many residents accused the city of trying to quietly sell the site, whose location off Rockaway Beach Boulevard near Beach 149th Street places it between Riis Park and Neponsit, an upscale beach neighborhood.

“They’re giving this old hush-and-rush, the same way they rushed the old folks out of there eight years ago,” said Joseph Hartigan, a local activist who supports preserving the existing building for other uses. “It should be more thought out, something that promotes tourism for our beautiful beaches. Most cities would kill for this spot.”

Councilman Joseph P. Addabbo Jr., who represents Queens, said, “Developers are drooling over this property, and we need to be very cautious about thinking this through.”

One possibility he suggested was developing the site into a health care facility with public space and some residential units.

Ms. Pheffer said that with little plans or financing in place for public use of the property, the most sensible option might be to develop the property into luxury housing, an option that would need a special bill approved by the State Legislature and the governor.

Ms. Pheffer said she would introduce such legislation only if it had broad community support.

“There is no rush to introduce the bill,” she said.

James N. Saunders, a spokesman for the Health and Hospitals Corporation, said the agency was seeking public input about what it might propose to the city for use of the site.

“We want the ultimate use of the parcel to be embraced by the community and beneficial to them as well,” he said.

Many local residents said their feeling of distrust toward the city had been exacerbated because they were not properly notified about an earlier public meeting about the site that had been planned in October.

Local community groups and elected and community board officials learned about that meeting only after a local resident noticed a small classified newspaper advertisement and called the community board. Faced with community outrage, the health agency rescheduled the meeting for Tuesday.

Mr. Hartigan and others said that any plan for the site should preserve, not demolish, the buildings. They called the center an integral part of Jacob Riis Park and the Rockaways. Riis helped open the center a century ago as a children’s tubercular hospital.

Patients had access to the balconies overlooking the ocean, so that fresh sea air could help their lung ailments. The center was built with the financial help of John D. Rockefeller, Jacob H. Schiff and Andrew Carnegie.

In September 1998, the city evacuated the buildings without advance notice to patients or their relatives. City officials said a storm had weakened the buildings, making them unsafe, and residents were bused to other health care systems.

In June 2003, the city paid $5 million to settle a lawsuit by many former residents charging that the shutdown was illegal.

“The city should not be able to capitalize and make a profit on this facility, just because of the Giuliani administration’s wrongful conduct in 1998,” said April Newbauer, a lawyer who helped negotiate the settlement and who leads the civil office of the Legal Aid Society in Queens. “This site was specifically designated for a public purpose in the midst of a health care crisis. The city wants to get rid of a property designated for health care.”
830 2006-11-30 A German court approved a deal to end the retrial of the chief executive of Deutsche Bank and others in a case involving bonuses paid at Mannesmann, the German telecommunications company, more than five years ago. The executive, Josef Ackermann, and five others were being retried on charges of breach of trust in approving almost 60 million euros ($79 million) of payments to executives of Mannesmann after it was bought by Vodafone. The judge approved a deal struck between the defense and prosecutors, under which Mr. Ackermann will make a payment of 3.2 million euros but not admit guilt. (REUTERS)

The European Commission fined five oil refiners and chemical producers about $682 million, saying they had fixed the price of synthetic rubber used to make tires. A sixth company that alerted authorities escaped a fine. Eni of Italy was ordered to pay the largest fine, 272 million euros ($358.4 million), while Royal Dutch Shell was fined 160.8 million euros ($211.9 million). Bayer, which told European Union regulators that the companies were fixing prices and sharing information on customers, was given immunity and escaped a potential fine of 204 million euros ($268.8 million). (AP)

The discount airline Ryanair Holdings has raised its stake in a rival, the Aer Lingus Group, to 25.2 percent in a renewed push to take over the airline, one of Ryanair’s financial advisers confirmed. The adviser, Davy, said that it bought nearly 31.8 million Aer Lingus shares for about 87.4 million euros ($115.2 million) on behalf of Ryanair, raising the carrier’s stake from 19.2 percent to 25.2 percent, or nearly 133.4 million shares. The chief executive of Aer Lingus, Dermot Mannion, conceded that Ryanair’s interest “isn’t going away any time soon,” but reiterated the company’s determination to remain independent. The higher stake does not markedly improve the chances that Ryanair’s bid will be successful; investors opposed to a buyout control more than 46 percent of Aer Lingus shares. (AP)

Bombardier, the train and airplane maker, reported a profit in the latest quarter on rising orders. The company, which is based in Montreal, said it had earned $74 million, in contrast to a loss of $9 million a year earlier. Revenue in the period, which ended Oct. 31 and was the third quarter of Bombardier’s fiscal year, rose to $3.39 billion from $3.3 billion. Bombardier received $2.8 billion in train orders during the quarter, “compelling evidence that the group is indeed becoming more efficient and competitive,” the chief executive, Laurent Beaudoin, said. New orders for aircraft rose to 95 from 53, but deliveries in the quarter slipped to 73 from 74 because of a strike at a plant in Kansas. (DOW JONES/AP)

After extending its offer six times, Barrick Gold abandoned its $1.7 billion hostile bid for NovaGold Resources. Barrick, based in Toronto and the world’s largest gold producer, first offered $14.50 a share for NovaGold in July, an offer that represented a 24 percent premium for the company at the time. Barrick has raised the bid, which will expire on Dec. 6, to $16 a share. Directors of NovaGold, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, dismissed Barrick’s bid as inadequate and made legal challenges. IAN AUSTEN

DaimlerChrysler will buy 24 percent of the Chinese truck and pickup maker Beiqi Foton Motor for $104 million. Foton will issue 297 million new A-shares to Daimler at 2.75 yuan a share, a discount of 24 percent to the company’s last traded price on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The deal, which requires approval by Chinese regulators and Foton shareholders, will raise $150 million for Foton, the company said. (REUTERS)
831 2006-11-30 The day’s events underscore the delicate task Mr. Bush and Mr. Maliki face as they head into Thursday’s meeting. As tensions rise in Iraq, friction has grown between the leaders, despite Mr. Bush’s insistence that he has faith in Mr. Maliki.

Each man is under pressure at home to extract concessions from the other. Mr. Maliki is facing demands from Mr. Sadr for the Iraqi government to wrest control of security forces from the Americans, and the boycott places more pressure on the prime minister to do just that.

Mr. Bush, for his part, must demonstrate to an uneasy American public that he is taking control of the increasingly violent situation in Iraq. Democrats, triumphant in a midterm election that was widely viewed as a referendum on the war, are pressing for a troop withdrawal and demanding that Mr. Bush send a message to Mr. Maliki that the troops’ presence is not open-ended. A bipartisan panel will officially unveil its recommendations on Iraq next week.

The White House tacked the hastily planned trip to Amman onto Mr. Bush’s swing through the Baltics so he could meet Mr. Maliki on safe ground. But the careful orchestration leading up to the Bush-Maliki summit meeting — including a news conference Tuesday in Estonia, where Mr. Bush promised to press the Iraqi prime minister on his strategy for stability — was upended when The New York Times published the classified assessment of Mr. Maliki in Wednesday’s issue.

The memo, written by the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, said that while Mr. Maliki seemed to have good intentions when talking with Americans, “the reality on the streets suggests Maliki is either ignorant of what’s going on, misrepresenting his intentions or that his capabilities are not yet sufficient.”

Publication of the memorandum just as Mr. Bush was to see Mr. Maliki left the White House struggling to put a positive spin on the news on a day when it had hoped to highlight a decision by NATO members that would lift some restrictions on troops operating in Afghanistan.

“The president has confidence in Prime Minister Maliki,” Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, told reporters in Riga, where the president’s aides seemed clearly worried about how the document would affect the talks.

Later, after Mr. Maliki canceled, senior officials insisted the document had nothing to do with it. “The president and Prime Minister Maliki will have a very robust and lengthy dialogue tomorrow morning,” Mr. Bartlett said in Amman, adding, “No one should read too much into this.”

But it was impossible not to read some palace intrigue into the scrubbing of such a meeting, especially when it involved a White House known for its meticulous planning.

As Bush aides tried to provide an explanation for the cancellation — before conceding that Mr. Maliki and the king had called the session off — they at one point went so far as to suggest it had been put on the schedule erroneously. Mr. Snow was still talking about photo opportunities for the meeting when Air Force One landed in Amman — after Mr. Bush had already received word from the ambassador.

The president was not received warmly here. Hundreds of Jordanians held a rare sit-in at Jordan’s Parliament house on Wednesday morning, and up to 500 marched through the streets in the afternoon, holding banners calling Mr. Bush a criminal and a murderer. Many carried photographs of Saddam Hussein.

“We see his arrival here as an insult to the martyrs killed by U.S. weapons,” said Bassim Qiswani, head of Jordan’s Doctors Syndicate as he marched toward the prime minister’s office. “Bush created all these problems, and now he wants the Arabs to fix them.”

Mr. Bush is indeed trying to reach out to moderate Arab nations to alter the dynamic in the Middle East. He dined Wednesday night with King Abdullah, where the two leaders and their aides discussed Israeli-Palestinian relations and Syria’s involvement in Lebanon.

According to a senior administration official who attended the dinner, Iraq was not a primary focus of the meal. But the king and the president also met privately; it was unclear if they discussed Iraq out of earshot of their aides.

Although Mr. Bush is under pressure to engage Syria as well as Iran in direct talks aimed at bringing stability to Iraq, the official said the president “made clear his view that this is not the time for engagement with Syria because the Syrian government always seems to see any such form of engagement as a gesture of approval, or as a way of getting off the hook for actions that it is taking.”

The president’s trip to Jordan comes as Secretary Rice is going to Israel on Thursday to see Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. It also comes amid a new wave of sectarian violence in Iraq. Last week, more than 200 people died in bombings and mortar strikes in a Shiite district of Baghdad, the deadliest attack since the American invasion. A bloody Shiite reprisal followed.

That prospect seemed heightened by Wednesday’s boycott. At the urging of senior ayatollahs, the religious Shiite bloc that dominates the government is expected to stay together despite the walkout. But the balance of power within it would change drastically if Mr. Sadr were to prolong the walkout.

Baha al-Aaraji, a leader of the Sadr legislators, said the organization had two conditions for rejoining the government: that Mr. Maliki wrest more control of the Iraqi security forces from the Americans and increase their number, and that the government provide more electricity, gas and other basic services.

In recent months Mr. Sadr has chafed as American and British forces have been conducting more operations across the capital and southern Iraq aimed at undermining his populist militia.

Mr. Sadr, in his early 30s, is arguably the most powerful politician in Iraq because Mr. Maliki is beholden to him for his support in staving off the prime minister’s Shiite rivals, and because Mr. Sadr controls a militia that, numbering in the tens of thousands, is regarded by many of the majority Shiites as a protector against Sunni extremists. Mr. Hadley’s memorandum said that the Americans must press Mr. Maliki to “bring his political strategy with Moktada al-Sadr to closure and bring to justice” any Mahdi Army members who “do not eschew violence.”

Mr. Sadr’s mercurial nature makes it difficult to predict what will happen next. Mr. Sadr has incentives to return to the government — he is protected from American pressure by Mr. Maliki, and he is able to play the role of statesman, even meeting with foreign leaders in neighboring countries.

Bush administration officials consider Mr. Sadr to be one of the most vexing problems facing Mr. Maliki. Though American commanders have been urging the prime minister to turn against Mr. Sadr and his militia, Mr. Maliki has found it impossible to betray his Shiite compatriot. That task grows exponentially more difficult each time a car bombing by Sunni Arabs wipes out dozens of Shiites in a marketplace or mosque, spurring the Shiites to turn to the Sadr militia, called the Mahdi Army, for revenge and protection.

One Shiite official close to the Sadr organization said that the current walkout was simply stagecraft intended to play to anti-American sentiments here.

“They’re just doing that to show their supporters that they are against any deals or contact with Americans,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a fear of reprisal by the Sadr loyalists. “It’s pointless. It’s just for show.”

“They will cancel their suspension in a week or so,” the official predicted. “It’s a very stupid act.”

BAGHDAD, Nov. 29 — Bombings across Baghdad left at least four people dead and five wounded on Wednesday, and another five were killed in Diyala Province after insurgents killed a store owner and planted a bomb in his shop, according to the Interior Ministry and the American military.

A marine was killed Wednesday in combat in Anbar Province, and a soldier was killed Tuesday by a roadside bomb in northern Iraq, the military said. The Air Force declared a pilot, Maj. Troy Gilbert, missing after his F-16 crashed northwest of Baghdad on Monday. The Air Force is conducting tests on human remains at the site.
832 2006-11-30 But the return to this delicate public role as a truly local commissioner also brings new complications for Mr. Kelly, 65. He is routinely discussed in political circles as a possible candidate for mayor in 2009, something he has not ruled out, and his actions are apt to be seen as having potential political consequences.

He is also, for the moment, caught between a mayor who has called the shooting “inexplicable,” an array of black leaders who want answers that Mr. Kelly has yet to deliver, and his own officers.

“This is a tough situation for everybody involved, and especially Ray,” said former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who named Mr. Kelly commissioner more than a decade ago. “He’s a straight arrow and I would expect the best from him. There’s also a lot of people who expect a lot from Ray in this.”

Mr. Kelly said that he is as comfortable as ever being the face of the police in a controversy, though he is not so cocky as to predict outcomes.

“I think you build relationships, and you can go back to other incidents perhaps where people relied on something I’ve said or I’ve done, and hopefully that’s built up a certain level of trust,” Mr. Kelly said. “You hope that is something that is going to play a role.”

“I’ve always prided myself on being forthright and open with the community, and not holding very much back — what you see is what you get with me,” he added.

In the hours after the shooting and since then, Mr. Kelly has been more visible than usual in his take-charge role, and it has been far from simple.

He was at the scene in Queens within hours of the shooting, and spent the day gathering details and sharing them with the mayor’s office, other leaders, and Mr. Sharpton, who was designated as an adviser by the family of the slain man, Sean Bell. Mr. Kelly delivered the city’s explanation of the shooting, at a news conference that night.

The next day, Sunday, Mr. Kelly took the guns from the officers.

“There were, and are, still too many unanswered questions,” Mr. Kelly said in the interview. “It’s a privilege to have a gun; you don’t have a right to have a gun.”

And on Monday, the commissioner calmly answered his critics at a private meeting with black leaders and department critics, including one who called for Mr. Kelly’s resignation. He also found himself standing by as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg described the 50 shots that killed Mr. Bell as unacceptable.

Later that day, on an NY1 News political talk show, Mr. Kelly was no longer discussing Qaeda sleeper cells and was instead trying to address all sides in the Queens case.

“The mayor is certainly entitled to his opinion,” he said on NY1. “I think we need an in-depth examination of all the facts. It is unusual to have this number of shots fired.”

Explaining police culture in pithy, made-for-television language is not always a skill commissioners possess, but it is a trademark of Mr. Kelly’s — not to mention a political asset, said Lee Brown, who preceded Mr. Kelly as commissioner under Mr. Dinkins.

“Ray brings, to any issue, his experience as a well-educated, well-trained, well-disciplined former marine who knows how to talk like people talk,” Mr. Brown said. “When things occur, like his work with us in restoring calm in Crown Heights, you can expect him to stand on that foundation.”

Mr. Kelly has earned some praise for sharing information with sometime critics like Mr. Sharpton, even if doing so made him seem unconcerned with irritating some of Mr. Sharpton’s detractors in his department.

Mr. Sharpton had his own blunt way of saying what is still at stake for Mr. Kelly.

“Ray Kelly’s word is seen as good in a lot of our community, but now his word is on trial,” Mr. Sharpton said. “He has to come up with more definitive answers about why this young man was shot and killed in Queens. I think this is the greatest challenge of his career. It could result in Ray Kelly having a halo around his head, or the undoing of a very popular image.”

But there are also skeptics, and there is anger. Complaints about Mr. Kelly this week have boiled down to this: Despite his personal touch, relations between the police and minorities remain in many ways strained, and sometimes explosive.

“Ray Kelly may be the same man who was police commissioner under Mayor Dinkins, but I think he is a different kind of commissioner today, and that worries me,” said the Rev. Charles L. Norris, pastor of Bethesda Missionary Baptist Church, in Jamaica. “I’m not confident anymore that he is solving the problem.”

Mr. Kelly said he has a long history inside the department and as a government official in Washington of improving the culture of agencies, combating racial profiling, and holding his own people accountable. He also said his diplomatic skills in times of crisis have not atrophied in the years that his focus has been pulled toward domestic security, an effort that is without precedent in the department.

He cited the case of Timothy Stansbury Jr., the unarmed 19-year-old who was fatally shot by a police officer in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, in 2004, as an instance in which, early on, he judged a shooting to be unjustified.

“In the Stansbury case, we had information because of statements from the nonshooting officers, so we put out the information,” Mr. Kelly said. “We don’t have enough information yet in this case. I make a determination about what to say based only on the facts.”

Some observers have said that Mr. Kelly’s recent reimmersion into the world of shootings and racial politics and the perceptions of police officers in southeast Queens, rather than those in Scotland Yard, may have a political payoff if he indeed runs for mayor. Mr. Kelly said he was not thinking about 2009, but declined to flatly rule out a bid. If it is not on Mr. Kelly’s mind, though, his performance this week nevertheless has displayed some political prowess.

“I think the way he conducts himself in front of the press, acting as the objective conveyer of information, while still appealing to everybody to reserve judgment, shows how he would handle a city crisis, political or otherwise,” said Richard Aborn, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, a nonpartisan group that monitors police policies in New York. “You can’t see every police commissioner as a political candidate, but you can with Ray.”
833 2006-11-30 The stock of The New York Times Company rose sharply yesterday on a report that Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief executive of the American International Group, was accumulating a large number of shares, but late in the day he denied that he was drastically increasing his holdings.

The New York Post reported yesterday that Mr. Greenberg, who is known as Hank, had been buying hundreds of thousands of the company’s shares. It said that he intended to use the stake to press for changes in the governance of the company, which is controlled by the Sulzberger family through a special class of stock.

But a spokesman for Mr. Greenberg — who resigned as chairman and chief executive of A.I.G. in March 2005 after the New York attorney general began investigating the company’s accounting practices — issued a statement late in the day denying any large purchase of shares.

“Mr. Greenberg owns a total of less than 100,000 shares of New York Times stock out of a total of over 143 million shares outstanding,” the spokesman, Mark Corallo, said. “He has no present intention of significantly increasing his holding.”

Shares of the Times Company surged on the report during the day, closing up $1.73, or 7.5 percent, at $24.76, the biggest one-day gain in nearly six years. They dropped as low as $23.74 in after-hours trading after Mr. Greenberg issued his statement.

Mr. Greenberg, 81, has expressed some interest in the newspaper industry, which is struggling to adapt to the migration of readers and advertisers to the Internet.
834 2006-11-30 In October, a month after the Amaranth hedge fund lost $6.6 billion — the most ever by a hedge fund — Henry Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, spoke with Bloomberg News about the importance of “transparency” at hedge funds and “liquidity” in the system. His remarks were interpreted at the time as a warning, perhaps even a harbinger of more oversight.

In what was billed as a major economic address last week, Mr. Paulson devoted less than one-tenth of his speech to hedge funds, leaving the impression that he is basically satisfied with the regulatory status quo.

No one wants the Treasury secretary to be an alarmist. But other officials, notably at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Securities and Exchange Commission, have gone further than merely acknowledging “potential risks” and pledging more “deliberations,” as Mr. Paulson did in his speech. Without pushing any panic buttons, they have broached the need for more collateral and better risk controls at banks that deal with hedge funds and greater oversight of hedge funds that solicit investments from pension plans.

Currently, some 9,000 hedge funds manage $1.3 trillion of investors’ money and control trillions of dollars more through their use of loans and derivative financial tools. They invest in all major sectors and operate through banks and securities firms, affecting the economy as a whole. And yet, they remain largely beyond the reach of federal overseers, a holdover from the days when they were much less ubiquitous. In 1990, only a handful of hedge funds existed, and altogether they managed just $39 billion.

Opponents of regulation routinely note that hedge funds are indirectly supervised because the banks they do business with are regulated. According to that logic, banks guard against excesses by their hedge fund clients to protect themselves from losses and regulatory problems. That reasoning also assumes that bankers are free of conflicts that might impair their judgment. But as hedge funds have grown, banks have earned increasingly larger commissions, fees and trading profits from them, a development that could induce some bankers to err on the side of recklessness.

There’s also an issue of practicality. As hedge funds become more numerous and complex, it is simply not feasible for banks to stay on top of their activities. And then there’s the matter of responsibility. It’s not a banker’s job to protect the public interest. It’s the job of regulators.
835 2006-11-30 Dermacare Laser and Skin Care Clinics, for example, is one of the nation’s largest medical-spa chains. It has 28 franchises run by 32 doctors, including 6 internists, 7 family physicians, 3 emergency room doctors, 2 urologists, 3 naturopaths, a chiropractor, an ophthalmologist and a psychiatrist, according to the company’s Web site, dermacareusa.com.

There is also one dermatologist, a facial surgeon and another doctor whose specialty is not listed. And there are five obstetrician-gynecologists, including Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro and Dr. Oyenike E. Kilanko, her business partner, whose Brooklyn spa is a Dermacare franchise.

Dermatologists and plastic surgeons refer to their new colleagues as “out of scope” or “noncore” physicians, and they strongly object to the intrusion, insisting that cosmetic medicine requires lengthy training.

But the dispute also has all the elements of a turf war, with specialists reluctant to cede ground in a field in which Americans spend an estimated $12 billion a year.

“Dentists are doing Botox, and urologists are doing hair transplants and vein removal,” said Dr. Ellen Gendler, a dermatologist in Manhattan who is a clinical associate professor at New York University School of Medicine. “Everyone wants to be a plasticologist.”

For their part, some doctors from other fields contend that the latest cosmetic procedures, like facial injections and vein removal, are far less complicated and risky than Caesarean sections or appendectomies and that the fundamentals can be learned in continuing-education classes.

“We are all doctors with the same primary training whose education continues after medical school by learning new techniques,” Dr. Kilanko said. “I know core physicians don’t want noncore physicians like me in it, but dermatologists and plastic surgeons can’t own aesthetic medicine by themselves.”

In the United States, all doctors with state medical licenses are allowed to administer all kinds of treatments, regardless of their training. But after residencies in specialties like ophthalmology or anesthesiology, doctors have not commonly set up shop in fields far outside their expertise, administrators at medical associations say.

That has been changing. Insurers and medical groups do not track what kinds of doctors perform cosmetic medical procedures. But specialists and pharmaceutical companies who make cosmetic medical products agree that more and more doctors from other fields are joining in, with some incorporating beauty treatments into their practices, and others opening medical spas.

MedSurge Advances, a Dallas company that trains doctors in beauty procedures and sells them devices like lasers, said that in the last four years, it had helped more than 300 doctors, including emergency room physicians, internists and gynecologists, to go into cosmetic medicine.

The American Academy of Family Physicians, a national group that represents 94,000 family practitioners and medical students, has started offering courses for its members on how to use Botox, facial fillers, lasers and chemical peels.

Dr. Larry S. Fields, the group’s chairman, who is a family physician in Ashland, Ky., said that such “cash-upfront treatments help family doctors stay in business at a time when Medicare is cutting reimbursements.”

Some see a danger in the trend, especially as nonspecialists move into more-invasive cosmetic procedures like breast augmentation and liposuction.

“You can’t assume that everyone with a pilot’s license can fly a 747 as well as a Piper Cub,” said Dr. Stephen H. Miller, president of the American Board of Medical Specialties, an umbrella organization for the examining boards that certify doctors after their residencies. Dr. Miller said certification confirmed a doctor’s ability to deliver quality care in a specialty.

“When you use a generic medical license to practice other forms of medicine,” he said, “there is an inherent danger to patient safety.”

Dr. Mark L. Jewell, a plastic surgeon in Eugene, Ore., who is a past president of the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, said the advent of physicians from other fields was likely to confuse patients, who do not always investigate a doctor’s training when looking for a cosmetic medical expert. Even more confusing to consumers is that many nonspecialist physicians are marketing themselves using terms like “cosmetic surgeon,” “aesthetic surgeon” and “laser surgeon,” he said.

“Next thing you know, chiropractors will be doing liposuction,” Dr. Jewell said. “And psychiatrists will be ‘head surgeons,’ giving you Restylane with your Prozac.”

Robert Huckels, vice president for marketing at MedSurge, said some nonspecialists were turning to cosmetic medicine because they were tired of heavy patient caseloads, long workweeks, high malpractice insurance premiums and the paperwork and payment structure imposed by Medicaid and managed care.

But Mohit Ghose, a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry group, denied that managed care was the impetus. “These doctors are just looking to generate new revenue streams,” Mr. Ghose said.

According to an annual survey of doctors’ incomes published in July in Modern Healthcare magazine, family physicians earn $142,000 to $190,000 a year, while emergency room physicians earn $180,000 to $262,000 and obstetricians earn $219,000 to $302,000.

But doctors have increasingly been complaining about their income, particularly as malpractice insurance costs have risen, Mr. Huckels said.

The average medical spa takes in $40,000 a month, with popular ones in big cities taking in $100,000, he said.

“It works well for emergency room doctors seeking less stress and for gynecologists who already have a ready-made female audience,” Mr. Huckels said.

Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro and Dr. Kilanko are board-certified obstetrician-gynecologists who graduated from N.Y.U. School of Medicine. After several years of working at hospitals — Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro at Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center and Dr. Kilanko, who is still practicing at Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center, both in Brooklyn — they wanted to open a practice. But Dr. Kilanko said the $160,000 they would each have to pay yearly for malpractice insurance for obstetrics in New York was prohibitive.

The doctors, who both have young children, wanted to find a specialty that would allow them to continue working in women’s health but spend more time with their families, Dr. Kilanko said. They settled on cosmetic medicine, where they set their own hours; malpractice insurance is costing them about $20,000 each this year, Dr. Kilanko said.

“This is another part of women’s health that we can contribute to without managed care telling us that they are going to pay us $90 per visit, regardless of what gets done during the visit,” Dr. Kilanko said.

The two started their Dermacare franchise in August 2005, when they traveled to the company’s headquarters in Scottsdale, Ariz.

After a week of training at Dermacare, which included learning how to use several kinds of lasers and injections, Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro and Dr. Kilanko enrolled in a daylong training course on Botox and another on Restylane in New York, they said.

In January, they opened their storefront spa on a bustling block of Atlantic Avenue in a neighborhood of town houses. The spa has warm terra-cotta-colored walls and wall-to-wall carpeting; the menu includes face peels, acne treatments and laser hair removal.

Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro said she expected the clinic to take in about $300,000 this year but projected that revenues would reach $1 million within the next two years.

She said the doctors’ backgrounds enhance their ability to work with female patients; they also treat men.

But Dr. Kilanko said she and her partner knew their limits. “We are introducing these treatments for the everyday woman who wants to take care of her lips and her frown lines,” Dr. Kilanko said. “If a woman wants her cheeks or chin sculpted, I refer her to a plastic surgeon.”

Still, critics say treatments by physicians with one week of training cannot compare in safety and efficacy with those performed by dermatologists and plastic surgeons.

Dr. Amy E. Newburger, a dermatologist in Scarsdale, N.Y., says she regularly treats complications caused by noncore physicians. One recent patient, she recalled, came in with a botched Botox treatment from an oncologist: one eyebrow was almost an inch higher than the other.

“All the patient got was a wallet biopsy,” Dr. Newburger said. Dr. Alexa B. Kimball, an assistant professor of dermatology at Harvard Medical School, said that while there were no studies specifically focusing on complications caused by doctors from other fields who practice cosmetic medicine, there were ones showing that other kinds of doctors make more mistakes diagnosing skin ailments than dermatologists.

“When doctors practice out of their scope, you would anticipate problems to arise from inadequate training,” Dr. Kimball said.

Dr. Kilanko said that in their first year of cosmetic practice, she and Dr. Nwankpa-Keshinro have not seen complications among their patients except for “maybe a couple of ulcerations in the skin, but no permanent scarring.” She said that the doctors were as qualified and adept at performing cosmetic procedures as were some dermatologists who did not focus on aesthetics in their residencies and now study how to inject Botox at medical meetings.

Still, Dr. Kilanko said she understood the discomfort over physicians who practice outside their board certification, and she objected to the suggestion that a dermatologist might perform a Caesarean section after a day course in obstetrics.

“They would have no business performing a C-section,” she said. “But you can’t compare the knowledge of the anatomy, level of difficulty and risk of complications of a C-section with Restylane injections.”

“They don’t think it’s brain surgery until they have a problem,” she said. “Then the first thing they do is send the patient to a dermatologist.”
836 2006-11-30 One of the nation’s most prominent research efforts focused on race and society, the Civil Rights Project, is moving from Harvard University to the University of California, Los Angeles, the universities said yesterday. The project’s director and co-founder, Gary Orfield, will join the U.C.L.A. faculty.

U.C.L.A. hailed the project’s move to Los Angeles, with a planned expansion of its work on immigration and other issues of concern to California’s huge Hispanic population, as an academic triumph.

The loss to Harvard follows a period in which the university has seen the attrition of prestigious minority faculty, including Christopher Edley Jr., a law professor who co-founded the Civil Rights Project in 1996. Professor Edley left Harvard in 2004 to become dean of the law school at the University of California, Berkeley.

The project has commissioned some 400 reports and produced a dozen books on topics including affirmative action, school segregation and the academic achievement gap. The Supreme Court cited its work in the 2003 decision upholding affirmative action in college admissions.

Professor Orfield said an important factor in the decision to move was his recent marriage to Patricia C. Gándara, a professor at University of California, Davis, who has specialized in issues relating to Latinos and education. At U.C.L.A., Professor Gándara will be a co-director of the project, which will be called the Civil Rights Project/El Proyecto de CRP.
837 2006-11-30 WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 (AP) — Federal advisers recommended Wednesday that Pfizer be allowed to market the painkiller Celebrex as a treatment for children with a devastating form of arthritis, even though they were split on whether it was safe.

In a 15-1 vote, the advisers said that the benefits of the drug outweighed its risks for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patients 2 years old and older. They also strongly recommended that its safety be monitored for years.

The Food and Drug Administration must now weigh the panel’s recommendation that it expand approval of Celebrex. The agency is not required to follow the advice of its expert panels, but it usually does.

Earlier, the agency’s arthritis advisory committee agreed unanimously that the drug was an effective treatment for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, which affects as many as 60,000 children in the United States.

However, in an 8-7 vote, with one abstention, panel members said that available data did not demonstrate that Celebrex was safe in treating the disease, commonly called J.R.A.

Celebrex is the only member of a class of drugs that included Vioxx and Bextra not to have been withdrawn from the market over concerns that they elevated the risk of heart attacks and strokes in adults. Before the meeting, F.D.A. reviewers had questioned the cardiovascular risks of long-term use of the drug in children.

“The feeling was short-term efficacy looked good and short-term safety was not an issue. Long-term safety is totally unknown and needs to be known,” said a panel member, Dr. Joan M. Bathon, a Johns Hopkins University rheumatologist.
838 2006-11-30 Nearly one million Americans, including 500,000 kidney patients, receive the drugs every year.

But some independent scientists say they believe that kidney patients are receiving too much of the drugs, in part because dialysis clinics make bigger profits for providing higher doses. The clinics make little profit on the actual dialysis services they provide for Medicare enrollees, who are the vast majority of dialysis patients.

The foundation’s panel will probably meet in January or early February and could release new treatment recommendations for public review a few weeks later, the foundation said.

The anemia panel consists of 15 nephrologists who meet under the auspices of the foundation, a private nonprofit group based in New York that provides financing for kidney researchers. The panel is one of several panels sponsored by the foundation that make recommendations about how to improve treatment for kidney patients.

But some scientists complain that Amgen has until now had too much influence on the creation of the foundation’s guidelines. The most recent version of the anemia guidelines, released earlier this year, encourages more aggressive treatment than the Food and Drug Administration recommends.

“The guidelines are funded through the National Kidney Foundation by industry, by and large,” said Dr. Daniel Coyne, professor of medicine at Washington University in St. Louis. “They write guidelines that are opinion-based, by and large, and favor industry or would appear to favor industry.”

While Amgen sponsors the creation of the guidelines and donated $4 million to the foundation last year, both the foundation and the company say that the company does not control which doctors are chosen for the panel or influence their choice of treatment.

Dr. Rob Brenner, senior director of medical affairs at Amgen, said the company had always promoted use of its drugs in accordance with the more cautious F.D.A. label, not the more aggressive guidelines created by the foundation.

The anemia drugs are proteins that stimulate bone marrow cells to produce hemoglobin, the main component of red blood cells. They must be given via injection, either intravenously or through the skin.

The original drug, called epoetin, is made by Amgen, which markets it under the brand name Epogen. Johnson & Johnson sells the identical drug, also produced by Amgen, as Procrit.

The other drug, darbepoetin, is sold under the name Aranesp. It was introduced in 2001 by Amgen and is a slightly modified version of epoetin that can be given less frequently.

Neither the National Kidney Foundation panel nor the F.D.A. suggest how much of the drugs patients should receive. Instead, they have guidelines for hemoglobin targets in the blood.

In general, healthy adults have hemoglobin levels of 14 grams or more per deciliter of blood, while patients are considered to need treatment if their levels are below 10 grams. Severe anemia can be devastating, leaving patients unable to work, walk for more than a few minutes, or even think clearly, while also increasing their risk of infection and heart disease.

But high levels of hemoglobin can cause high blood pressure, strokes and heart attacks, even in healthy adults. Now some scientists say they believe that kidney doctors need to become more conservative about treating anemia, which probably means using less of the drugs.

The prescribing label for Epogen, as approved by the F.D.A., says dialysis patients should have a target hemoglobin level of 10 to 12 grams per deciliter of blood. In its most recent guideline, the panel of doctors overseen by the kidney foundation said a target of 11 to 13 grams was appropriate. It is that target that will now be under review.

In practice, almost all dialysis patients receive the drugs, and almost none have hemoglobin levels below 11 grams after treatment. About half have levels of more than 12 grams, according to data from the United States Renal Data System, a federally sponsored group that monitors kidney patient care. Almost 20 percent of patients have levels above 13 grams.

The differences may seem small, but one of the studies published in The New England Journal found that patients treated to an average hemoglobin level of 12.6 grams had a 34 percent higher risk of death or serious heart problems than those treated to a level of 11.3 grams.

And the average patient at the higher level required about twice as much of the anemia drug to get to that level.
839 2006-11-30 WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 — The third and final space shuttle flight of the year, an intricate mission to continue construction of the International Space Station, is to blast off on Dec. 7, NASA managers announced on Wednesday.

After a two-day meeting to review the mission at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, National Aeronautics and Space Administration officials said the shuttle Discovery would be launched next Thursday at 9:35 p.m., the first night launching in four years.

Since the Columbia disaster in 2003, NASA has restricted the three shuttle launchings to daylight hours so that it could take detailed photographs and measurements to assure that safety modifications made after the accident were working. The Columbia and its crew of seven were lost while returning to Earth because foam debris from the external fuel tank damaged the craft during the launching.

“I think we’re all ready to resume night launches,” N. Wayne Hale, NASA’s shuttle program director, said at a televised news conference after the meeting.

Mr. Hale and William Gerstenmaier, the agency’s associate administrator for space flight, said radar and images taken during liftoff using light generated by the shuttle’s rocket engines should be able to spot any potentially damaging debris even in surrounding darkness.
840 2006-11-30 A fire at a fraternity house near the University of Missouri-St. Louis campus killed a student, less than two weeks after a fatal blaze at a Nebraska fraternity house. Three students lived at the Pi Kappa Alpha house in St. Louis, and two escaped when the fire broke out around 3:30 a.m., said Bob Samples, a university spokesman. The police identified the victim as Brian Schlittler, 25, a senior from the St. Louis region. The cause of the fire was under investigation.
841 2006-11-30 Dell and other technology companies, like AT&T and Motorola, have recently opened similar stores.

The Southlake store, which features products from Verizon Wireless and Verizon Communications, opened in early November. It represents a different approach for Verizon, which has been mostly selling its broadband products through call centers, direct mail and telemarketing.

Verizon plans to open a similar store this month in a location the company has not announced. If the two trial stores attract enough foot traffic and sales, Mr. Ingalls said, Verizon will consider expanding the concept nationwide.

The new store is most busy on weekends and during lunch breaks during the week, the store manager, Travis Dodson, said. People are spending the most time playing with the VCast music feature, which allows them to download music to their cellphones, and with the broadband offerings. It is not uncommon for men to come into the store’s TV lounge and watch college sports while their wives are shopping elsewhere, Mr. Dodson said. Children also play online games while their parents shop.

Besides sales, Mr. Dodson said the store emphasized customer service. Verizon has trained employees to teach customers how Verizon landline phones, cellphones and broadband connections can be used together. The store also has a “guru zone” where customers can ask their technology questions.

“Anytime a customer comes in and purchases a new device, there’s a learning curve,” Mr. Dodson said. “There’s a lot of questions that come with new technology, and making sure the customer understands what they’ve purchased is part of good service.”

In July, Dell opened a similar “try before you buy” store in Dallas. The store features about 35 products at any given time, many more than Dell’s 189 small kiosks in malls. Dell will open another such store in West Nyack, N.Y., early next year

AT&T, too, has been playing show-and-tell with what it is calling its Hometown Tour. The company is setting up several temporary displays to show off its broadband products.

Earlier this year, Motorola set up a try-it store on North Michigan Avenue, along the Magnificent Mile in Chicago, to temporarily showcase its Moto Q, Motorazr and Motokrzr phones. Visitors could try out the phones’ features, including taking photos and printing them or e-mailing them on the spot. Sales clerks were on hand to answer consumer questions about the phones.

“I remember the days that the only two questions you used to get from a consumer were ‘what’s the call quality like?’ and ‘how long does the battery last?’ ” said Jeremy Dale, vice president for global retail and channel marketing for Motorola. “Marketing and selling products these days is much more complicated than it used to be.”
842 2006-11-30 The only time they came this close was in 1981, when Guillermo Vilas and another robust baseliner, José Luis Clerc, were beaten, 3-1, by John McEnroe and the United States in the final on a quick indoor court in Cincinnati.

It has taken the Argentines 25 years to get a second chance, and it begins Friday with the two opening singles matches against Russia and with one of those in the stands expected to be Diego Maradona, the Argentine soccer icon who knows about roller-coaster rides.

“I think Davis Cup is one of the big unresolved things in our country in terms of sport,” Alberto Mancini, the Argentine captain, said in an interview Wednesday in Moscow’s Olympic Stadium. “For many years, we’ve had very strong generations of players, but for one reason or another, we’ve never managed to do it. It’s a dream for everyone, and I think now that our tennis has become more solid than ever, the Argentine public has even more expectations.

“I remember watching the 1981 final on television at my house when I was a boy of 12,” Mancini said. “The memories are a little fuzzy, but my family always followed Davis Cup, and that was a big moment and, in the end, a big disappointment.”

More of the same is hardly out of the question. Once again, the Argentines, playing on the road and indoors, are not the favorites. Russia has the world’s No. 3 player, Nikolay Davydenko, a newlywed who has been in rare form indoors in recent weeks. Russia also has Safin, a former world No. 1, and Dmitry Tursunov, a fine fast-court player who proved he has the nerve for Davis Cup by beating Andy Roddick of the United States in an ultra-marathon of a fifth set in the decisive match of the semifinal.

“They have a very solid team,” Mancini said. “Safin is not at his best, but he is coming back and has had a good second half of the year. Davydenko is at his peak. It’s certainly a bit difficult. We know we are the underdogs, but we also know that we have a legitimate chance.”

The key is Nalbandian, the sweaty, moody man from Córdoba who is his country’s finest all-court player since Vilas. While most Argentines grow up on clay, Nalbandian had a hard court near his childhood home, and his compact strokes and returns are well designed for any surface, even the rubberized carpet in use in Moscow.

He reached the final at Wimbledon on grass in 2002 and has now reached the semifinals of the other three Grand Slam tournaments, including the Australian Open and French Open this year. But both tournaments turned out to be demoralizing, as he lost his grip against the inexperienced Marcos Baghdatis in Australia in January and then injured himself after a torrid start against Roger Federer in Paris in June.

Nalbandian, whose ranking has slipped from No. 3 to No. 8, has not been quite the same since, and he has been on edge this week, well aware of the opportunity at hand.

“There were moments when Argentina has been very far from the Davis Cup, and lately we’ve always been close, playing semifinals and losing by little,” Nalbandian said in an interview earlier this month. “We have to take advantage of these years, while we’ve got this competitive team, to win the Cup.”

On Tuesday, he and Mancini were involved in an animated, sometimes heated court-side discussion in plain view of a coterie of Argentine journalists. It was perceived and reported as a disagreement over who would be the team’s second singles player with Nalbandian reportedly favoring Agustin Calleri over Juan Ignacio Chela, who is expected to be Mancini’s choice when lineups are announced Thursday.

But Mancini rejected any suggestion of a rift Wednesday. “We cleared that up today with everyone,” Mancini said. “The journalists were speaking without knowing what we were saying. The only thing this does is create doubts and hurt the team. But nothing bad was going on. We are a unified team.”

They will need to be, and even if Nalbandian produces enough for an upset, Argentina’s victory will be greeted with ambivalence in the tennis world. Too many of their players have tested positive over the years, including Chela, who was suspended for three months in 2001. Canas is also in Moscow as a hitting partner after returning from his reduced suspension in September. Puerta, who is practicing again, is eligible to return next year after having his sanction reduced from eight years to two.

“I don’t think this negative idea and image should exist, at least that’s what I think,” Mancini said. “The way I see it is that what happened was accidental. I believe in the innocence of the guys.”
843 2006-11-30 Despite soaring Wall Street profits, the lowest unemployment in 30 years and falling vacancy rates for commercial real estate, New York City’s budget still faces threats from the rapidly rising costs of debt service and pension contributions, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi concluded yesterday in a review of the city’s financial plan. The review noted that on Nov. 1, the city modified its four-year financial plan to reflect unforeseen tax revenue and that the city now expects a $1.9 billion surplus for the fiscal year that ends June 30. But substantial deficits could return as soon as the fiscal year that starts July 1, 2008, Mr. Hevesi warned. He also noted that two city entities, the Housing Authority and the Health and Hospitals Corporation, face ongoing financial difficulties.
844 2006-11-30 Once upon a time, Ms. Smith and Mr. Lueders had generous benefits from their employers and gave little thought to how medical care would be paid. But today, as owners of a consulting firm in Liberty, Mo., and a transmission franchise in North Kansas City, it is a constant struggle.

“When we worked for someone else, life was good,” she said. “We had plenty of money and health care. Now we live with the constant fear of something. You never know, you just hold your breath. We will probably have one of us go back and get a full-time job at some point.”

Premiums for small companies are rising at a faster clip than at larger companies. A Kaiser Family Foundation telephone survey of 2,122 companies released in September found that premiums for small companies rose an average of 8.8 percent this year, compared with a 7 percent rise for larger companies that have more than 200 employees.

Ms. Smith said her premiums rose 11 percent this year and that she was now paying about $300 a month in premiums for a high-deductible plan. The couple has to meet a $5,000 deductible each before their coverage kicks in.

Josef Blumenfeld, who opened his own global public relations firm, Tradewind Strategies, two years ago in Natick, Mass., has a more comprehensive plan, he said, with low deductibles, but he is paying $1,346 a month for health coverage for his family, including his wife and two children. That is more than $16,000 annually.

“Health insurance has become our second-largest expense behind our mortgage,” he said. “It’s definitely causing me to consider going back into the job market.”

According to a 2005 mail survey of more than 600 small businesses by the National Association for the Self-Employed, or NASE, which represents the nation’s microbusinesses, 51.1 percent of respondents said they did not or had not planned to offer health insurance coverage for themselves or employees. (The overall margin of error was plus or minus 3.9 percent.)

In the survey, the smallest companies, grossing less than $50,000 annually, fared worse. About 14 percent of those companies had insurance coverage, compared with 70 percent among those with annual revenue of $500,000 or more. And the smaller businesses pay more, the study found. The small companies spent a median of 18.7 percent of their gross sales on health insurance when they did offer it, compared with 2.3 percent among the higher-grossing firms.

“The cost of health insurance is definitely a big factor in the decision to move toward self-employment,” said Kristie Darien, executive director for NASE. “Not only is it a huge cost, but it’s also very complicated. There’s a natural fear among people that you have to do a lot of research and it still can be very confusing.”

Not everyone thinks the trend is keeping people from taking the entrepreneurial plunge. “I’m not buying that it is a true barrier. It’s a hurdle not a wall,” says Bill Coleman, senior vice president for compensation at Salary.com, the compensation and benefits data site. If the higher price of health insurance keeps you out of the self-employed game, he said, then you might not be cut out to be an entrepreneur.

If you want to be an entrepreneur, he says, you have to find ways to make your small company part of a bigger group. He suggested looking at a professional employer organization where a small business enters into a type of co-employment relationship with such a firm that essentially employs your workers like a staffing agency would and provides them health benefits.

And small-business owners, some insurance experts say, just have to come to terms with the reality of what health plans cost. “You have Joe who worked for American Airlines and had the richest plan on the face of the earth where everything was covered and now having to start paying for the plan themselves. They are sticker-shocked,” said Cathy Daugherty, a health insurance broker from Orange, Calif.

When they calculate their business plan, she added, some entrepreneurs do not appropriately calculate their health insurance expenses. Do not blame the high cost of health insurance if a small-business owner cannot make ends meet, she said. “Everything has to be put into the budget like Internet access and rent,” she said.

Most states are looking at ways to make coverage more affordable, Ms. Swartz said. Many now offer something called high-risk pools that provide subsidized insurance to people who have pre-existing or chronic conditions.

Thomas Sudow, executive director of the Beachwood Chamber of Commerce in Beachwood, Ohio, said his chamber was part of the Northern Ohio Area Chambers of Commerce that includes 130 Ohio chambers with over 40,000 members, all of them with access to a discounted plan through Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield.

He estimates that the plan can save as much as 5 percent off rates available on the open market to small-business owners but that includes only those companies that have two or more employees.

He suggested that the first thing a would-be entrepreneur do, especially if he has some sort of health condition, is to sit down with many different insurance agents and come up with a creative plan that fits his needs. And make sure they are experts in small-group and individual policies.

That kind of collaboration helped Jere Smith find her recent policy. “The agent was able to discuss directly with the underwriter. They had a long working relationship. So I feel the agent was able to properly represent us to the company,” she said.

Ms. Smith loves being an entrepreneur and is happy with her policy right now, although she admits, “we have had no reason to use the coverage.” What is worrying her is the uncertainty of future premium rates or whether a major medical issue down the line will be covered.

“We’ve always wanted to be self-employed but health care is the 95 percent reason we might have to go back to working for someone else,” she said.
845 2006-11-30 MOSCOW, Nov. 29 — Yegor T. Gaidar, a former prime minister and architect of Russia’s early post-Soviet market reforms, has been hospitalized with a mysterious illness that his daughter and associates said Wednesday could have resulted from poisoning.

Mr. Gaidar, 50, fell ill in Ireland on Friday, the day after Alexander V. Litvinenko, the former Russian secret agent, died in London following an illness caused by exposure to polonium 210, a radioactive isotope. Mr. Gaidar’s spokesman, Valery A. Natarov, said Mr. Gaidar returned to Moscow on Sunday and remained in a hospital, though neither Mr. Natarov nor others would identify it.

Mr. Natarov said that Mr. Gaidar’s condition had improved, but that doctors had not diagnosed his illness. “We still have no official information from the doctors,” he said.

Because Mr. Gaidar’s illness occurred in the wake of the Litvinenko case, which had led to accusations of a Russian role, others quickly linked the cases, but without evidence.

Anatoly B. Chubais, an ally of Mr. Gaidar and chairman of Russia’s electric monopoly, said that Mr. Gaidar appeared to have escaped an attempt on his life. He said the case was linked to Mr. Litvinenko’s death and to the recent killing of the journalist Anna Politkovskaya.
846 2006-11-30 50 Cent appears on four “Re-Up” tracks, along with a mixed bag of aspiring stars who are also signed to Eminem’s Shady Records. The other members of D-12, Proof’s former group, make mercifully brief appearances, alongside the Detroit rapper Obie Trice and some newer signings: Stat Quo, a hard-spitting Atlantan; Ca$his, who gruffly claims both California and “the Midwest” as his home turf; Bobby Creekwater, formerly of the slick (and heavily OutKast-indebted) duo Jatis.

Many of these rappers share Eminem’s enthusiasm — though not quite his aptitude — for reciting dense, polysyllabic lines. And there are moments when Eminem definitely sounds rejuvenated, including “The Re-Up,” an exuberant collaboration with 50 Cent. (As is often the case, most of Eminem’s best lines are unfit to print.)

But listeners may also notice that he’s recycling old themes (his alleged dalliance with Mariah Carey; his possible retirement) and even, maybe, old lines. In the gloomy “No Apologies,” he raps, “He’s able to spill raps long after he’s killed/ That’s a real MC, got you feelin’ me.” Some fans may remember a similar line from four years ago: “Till I collapse, I’m spillin’ these raps, long as you feel ’em.” Or maybe he’s revisiting on purpose. And in any case, if this rather spotty CD helps him to recover that old swagger and excitement, who could complain?

Lil Wayne doesn’t need any help. In the last 14 months, he has provided the hip-hop world with more swagger and excitement than many rappers manage in their careers. His fifth album, “Tha Carter II,” was released late last year ; whereas once Lil Wayne had been dismissed as a kiddie-rap novelty act, now he was delivering nimble rhymes and proclaiming himself “best rapper alive.” Then, this spring came a mixtape, “Dedication 2,” which was partly a tribute to his native New Orleans. And he teamed with his longtime mentor, Baby (also known as Birdman), for a high-spirited CD, “Like Father, Like Son” (Cash Money/Universal), that was released on Halloween.

He is impossibly prolific, yet he often sounds — to his credit — as if he’s just goofing off. Certainly that’s the feeling on the “Young Money” mixtape, which is named for his label. (He is also president of Cash Money Records, his longtime home.) It might be the wackiest Lil Wayne mixtape so far, which is saying something; in one free-associative rhyme, he delivers this nonsensical boast about his jewelry: “Check my pattern, scheme/ I probably have on rocks from the moon and Saturn’s ring.”

The tracks were compiled by Raj Smoove, a New Orleans D.J.; unlike DJ Drama (who compiled Lil Wayne’s two “Dedication” mixtapes), he isn’t a very effective host. And the emerging rappers on the CD, including Mack Maine and Curren$y, don’t make much of an impression. And for that matter, the beats (when they aren’t stolen from stars like Jay-Z and Young Buck) are sometimes forgettable.

Yet it hardly matters: this compilation offers yet another chance to hear a rapper in his prime, and few musical spectacles can compete with that. Lil Wayne turns an old hip-hop controversy (Dr. Dre’s assault on a journalist) into a daffy boast: “I’m so fresh I should be smacked, like Dee Barnes/ And you’ll get smacked like a baseball by B. Bonds.” There are plenty of the usual dirty jokes, alongside more-sad-not-angry rhymes about Hurricane Katrina, his former partners in the Hot Boy$ and his father. And in “Amen,” he compresses years of frustration into three pithy lines:

Government still quittin’ on us

Lost a few homies, and the grief still sittin’ on us

So we got they names written on us.

Like many rappers before him, Lil Wayne is promising that his next album will be a “classic”; unlike most of them, his prediction seems plausible. For now, he seems to be doing whatever he wants, and doing it effortlessly. You can almost believe that Lil Wayne’s hot streak will last indefinitely. But then, once upon a time, lots of us felt the same way about Eminem.
847 2006-11-30 Q. Do you have any suggestions for individuals and small businesses to combat spam?

A. Small businesses can have just as much unsolicited junk mail clogging their mail servers as do larger corporations, but often lack the human and software resources of the bigger companies to fight it as effectively. But there are some options for fighting back.

Many Internet service providers or companies like Yahoo that host small-business Web sites and mail servers offer spam filtering at the server level, so you may want to check with your I.S.P. to see what’s available. Providers like America Online and EarthLink already filter spam for individual e-mail accounts. If you are still getting a lot of junk in your mailbox, you might try adjusting the filter settings; check your service’s Help guide for instructions.

If your company has its own mail server, there are plenty of server-based programs to filter a message before it reaches an employee’s desktop. Several security companies offer versions of their programs for small businesses (usually those with around 5 to 100 employees) that are less expensive than the enterprise programs for large companies.

Symantec’s Mail Security (www.symantec.com) and McAfee SpamKiller for Mail Servers (www.mcafee.com) are two options designed for smaller businesses to help stop spam and viruses from infiltrating company e-mail. TrendMicro (www.trendmicro.com) and Panda Software (www.pandasoftware.com) have their own spam-filtering and server security products as well. Some companies base their prices on the number of users involved, so it may cost $600 to $700 to buy the software for 20 employees.

Cloudmark (www.cloudmark.com) and ChoiceMail (www.digiportal.com/enterprise.html) are two other spam solutions with small-business options. If you use Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft has a page of tips and tools for configuring the server at www.microsoft.com/exchange/default.mspx.
848 2006-11-30 Helio, an upstart mobile carrier, is trying to convince the world that it is something else. Helio’s advertising — featuring the slogan “Don’t Call Us a Phone Company” — shows the young and cool using Helio phones to download music and videos and send messages to friends.

Its latest handset, however, is all cellphone. The Drift, which comes in white or black, is a tiny three-ounce phone with quite a few cool features.

The phone, made by Samsung, includes all of Helio’s unique offerings, including instant messaging and the ability to use MySpace. The screen slides up to reveal the keypad. A feature called Helio on Top — or H.O.T. — brings a live feed of news, weather and sports scores directly to the phone.

The Drift also has a G.P.S. chip to create Buddy Beacons, letting you keep tabs on friends. Their locations appear on a United States map, and your location is on theirs.

The Drift is available now for $225 from helio.com and many retail stores. Data and voice plans start at $65 for 500 minutes a month. After all, while Helio may not be a phone company, it still lets you make phone calls. JOHN BIGGS

Editors’ Note: December 7, 2006 

 Brief reports in the Circuits pages of Business Day on Nov. 23 and Nov. 30 described cellphones made by Samsung. The reports were by a freelance writer, John Biggs, who in October made a trip to South Korea at Samsung’s expense. Times policy prohibits reporters from accepting travel expenses or other payment from companies they cover. Had the editors known of the circumstances of the trip, they would not have given Mr. Biggs the assignments. (Go to Article)
849 2006-11-30 Cellphone carriers often crow about having fewer dropped calls than the competition, but high-rises, brick walls and plaster lead to blind spots in some homes. Wi-Ex has created a compact system for amplifying cellphone signals without the need for much high-tech mumbo-jumbo.

The zBoost Dual-Band grabs cell signals and strengthens them inside homes and businesses, often bumping up the signal display on a phone by two or three bars. The system supports G.S.M. and C.D.M.A. phones, so it works with all systems except some Nextel phones. It is available online at www.wi-ex.com and other sites for less than $400.

Installation is fairly simple, and unless you have experience in radio engineering there is little need to tweak things. The system comes with a large outdoor antenna and a long cable. You mount the antenna to an outside wall or just stick it out a window. Then you move the receiver to your low-signal zone and plug it in.

In a test in a basement that has traditionally been a dead zone, reception improved from one or two bars to a full four bars. Cave dwellers now have one less excuse for being antisocial. JOHN BIGGS
850 2006-11-30 THE $100 LAPTOP A nonprofit project to build a $100 laptop for children in the developing world is winning over many skeptics. Five countries have made tentative commitments to put the computers into the hands of millions of students, with product...
851 2006-11-30 Inspired by scaffolding, the new dVider system, above, was designed for people with unruly spaces and a fear of commitment. The four- or six-foot-wide cotton sails, which are stretched between steel posts held in compression between the floor and ...
852 2006-11-30 Photo of American and Afghan soldiers searching caves in mountains of Paktia Province for hidden materials used to make raodside bombs...
853 2006-11-30 The Millennium Challenge Corporation, an American foreign aid agency, said it would provide $461 million to El Salvador over five years for projects across the country's poor northern region. The largest, costing $234 million, will rehabilitate th...
854 2006-11-30 After extending its offer six times, Barrick Gold abandoned its $1.7 billion hostile bid for NovaGold Resources. Barrick, based in Toronto and the world's largest gold producer, first offered $14.50 a share for NovaGold in July, an offer that repr...
855 2006-11-30 1. The Parking Timer keychain is $9.95; discoverystore.com or (800) 627-9399.    2. A silver-plate luggage tag is $12; potterybarn.com or (888) 779-5176.    3. The faux-stingray clock by Victoria Hagan is $19.99 at Target Stores; target.com or (80...